Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2575-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR THE
GREATER KHULNA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
June 4, 1979
g This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipbets only in the performance of
their offidul duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Benk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit    =   Taka (Tk)
Taka 1            =   Paisa 100
Taka 1            =   US$0.0645
Taka 1,000,000   =   US$64,516
US$1              =   Tk 15.5
US$1,000,000          Tk 15,500,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)                =    0.6214 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                     =    39.37 miles (in)
1 cubic meter (cu m)            =    1.31 cubic yard (cu yd)
1 cubic foot (cu ft)            =    0.028 cubic meters (cu m)
1 kilogram (kg)                 =    2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 kilo calorie (kcal)           =    3.968 British thermal units (Btu)
1 kilogram standard coal        =
equivalent (kg ce)                 7,000 kilo calories (kcal)
1 imperial gallon (imp gal)   =    4.545 liters (1) = 1.2 US gallon
1 kilovolt (kV)                 =    1,000 volts (V)
1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)         =    1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 megawatt (MW)                 =    1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
BWDB    -   Bangladesh Water Development Board
CIDA    -   Canadian International Development Agency
cif     -   Cost, Insurance, Freight (International shipping clause)
ECNEC   -   Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
EPWAPDA -   East Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority
ERD     -   External Resource Division of the Ministry of Finance
GDP     -   Gross Domestic Product
GOB     -   Government of Bangladesh
HSD     -   High Speed Diesel
IERR    -   Internal Economic Rate of Return
IJCS    -   Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme
KfW     -   Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
LRMC    -   Long-Run Marginal Cost
ODM     -   Ministry of Overseas Developent of the United Kingdom (ODM)
OPEC    -   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PEC     -   Project Evaluation Committee
REB     -   Rural Electrification Board
TYP     -   Two-Year Plan (FYs 79 and 80)
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -   United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
GREATER KHULNA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Beneficiary:         Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB).
Amount:              US$28.0 Million Equivalent.
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    The IDA credit will be on-lent from GOB to BPDB at
5 percent per annum over a period of 25 years, including
5 years of grace. BPDB will bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Purpose:             The objectives of the project are to rehabilitate and
expand electrical distribution systems in urban areas of
the Khulna district, to improve BPDB's training program,
and to contribute to institution building by strengthen-
ing BPDB's planning capacity and improving its financial
status.
The project provides for the purchase and installation
of equipment and materials for the distribution of
electricity, for training services and equipment and for
buildings; the project also provides consulting services
for project engineering and implementation.
The project is straightforward and easy to implement
and no major risks are foreseen.
Estimated Project Costs:                             Local Foreign  Total
----US$ Million-----
Equipment and Civil Works       10.2   14.6    24.8
Engineering Consultants          0.2    0.8      1.0
Training                         0.4    0.7      1.1
BPDB's Field Establishment
and Overheads                  2.8     -       2.8
Physical Contingencies           1.0    1.5      2.5
Price Contingencies              5.3    2.8      8.1
Subtotal Net of Duties
and Taxes                     19.9   20.4    40.3
Duties and Taxes                 3.9      -      3.9
Total Project Cost              23.8   20.4    44.2
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
OPEC
Special
Financing Plan:                                   GOB   IDA  Fund    Total
(Net of taxes and duties)                         -       US$ Million------
3.8   28.0   8.5    40.3
Estimated Disbursements:                       FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
(rounded)                                      ---------US$ Million----------
Annual                     3.0   7.0   11.0    6.0    1.0
Cumulative                3.0  10.0   21.0   27.0   28.0
Rate of Return:      About 8% (on BPDB's total investment program FYs 79-83).
Appraisal Report:   Bangladesh - Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project,
May 30, 1979, Report No. 2476-BD.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR THE
GREATER KHULNA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$28.0
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance the Greater Khulna Power
Distribution Project. The proceeds of the Credit would be relent to the
Bangladesh Power Development Board for 25 years, including 5 years of grace,
with interest at 5 percent per annum. The proposed project would also be
financed by an $8.5 million loan requested from the OPEC Special Fund.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD, of September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. An economic
mission visited the country in June 1978; its report entitled "Bangladesh:
Current Trends and Development Issues" (Report No. 2245-BD) was circulated
on December 15, 1978.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent seven years ago, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost a large number
of its academic and business elite, while much of the physical infrastructure
had been demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had
come to a standstill. Attempts to revive the economy were complicated by the
necessities to fashion a national government out of a provincial administra-
tion, to establish development institutions serving agriculture, industry,
trade, and banking, and to reorient agriculture and industry after the loss
of the West Pakistan market.
4.        The first years of independence were difficult.  Bad harvests in
1972-73 were followed by damaging floods in 1974. International terms of
trade worsened considerably as prices of foodgrains, petroleum, fertilizer
and cement rose sharply while jute, the predominant export, stagnated. In-
flation, falling real wages, labor unrest and political instability added
to the troubles.
5.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with conditions of
greater political stability, have removed the crisis atmosphere affecting
economic policy making in the early years of independence when relief and
rehabilitation and then the achievement of economic stabilization were un-
avoidably the paramount concern of Bangladesh's policy makers. The present



time might therefore be characterized as a period of consolidation of the
country's economic recovery from the shocks of the early 1970's. It is also
a period which offers the policy makers an opportunity to focus anew on the
longer-term needs of development. In recognition of its need for a fund-
amental reorientation of policies, the Government wisely chose to put off a
new Five Year Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79 and 80)
calls for Bangladesh to clear the deck for future action (partly through a
screening of the 1400 projects on the present project list to weed out un-
economic projects) and to study and consider the development strategy and
policies to be incorporated in the next Five Year Plan beginning in July 1980.
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
6.         On the political front, the most notable recent development has
been the parliamentary elections held in February 1979. For the past several
years Bangladesh has been governed under martial law and without a parliament.
In the recent elections, some 29 political parties and groups contested for
the 300 seats in the newly reconstituted National Assembly. Roughly two-
thirds of the seats were won by the Nationalist Party headed by President
Ziaur Rahman, who was previously confirmed as President in elections held
in June 1978. The new assembly will have substantial powers, including con-
trol over the country's finances. Martial law is to be lifted following the
convening of the new Parliament in March 1979. It remains to be seen, of
course, what specific impact these political developments will have upon
Bangladesh's economic policies and prospects. One area, for example, in
which the present government is anticipating a salutary effect is in the
investment climate; it is hoped that both domestic and foreign investors will
now be more inclined to assume a more active role than in the past. It is
also anticipated that the Government will soon be able both to take major
decisions on important policy issues and to implement programs that have
been pending the outcome of the recent elections.
7.        Recent estimates confirm that FY78 was a relatively good one for
the economy. Mostly as the result of a large grain crop, which recovered
from the substantial decline in the previous year, and a 10% increase in
industrial output, GDP grew by 8% in real terms after only a 1.7% rise in
FY77. For the third year in a row, Bangladesh was spared major droughts,
floods or cyclones. Foodgrain output reached a record level of 13.4 million
tons. The favorable results in agriculture are explained not only by good
weather but also by constructive Government actions resulting in. sharply
increased supplies of fertilizer, other agricultural inputs and credit; and
larger and more efficient procurement effort, at prices attractive to farmers.
Results for wheat have been particularly encouraging. Jute output also in-
creased substantially in FY78, partly due to the Intensive Jute Cultivation
Scheme (IJCS) which, in only a few years' time, has risen to cover 500,000
acres and is expected to cover one million acres in the current year. How-
ever, raw jute prices remained high due to increased demand and the deple-
tion of inventories in prior years. These high raw jute prices and an
increase in jute workers salaries resulted in the jute mills once more
suffering large financial losses.



- 3 -
8.        A strong upturn in industrial output occurred because of a revival
in consumer demand, an improvement in investment, and more liberal avail-
ability of imported raw materials. Capacity utilization in industry was
stimulated by increased demand for jute goods and cotton textiles, and by
an intensification of construction activity.
9.        It is too early for an accurate assessment of the growth prospects
for FY79. There are some signs of dynamism in agriculture, but the weather
has been unfavorable for the aman crop. Since investments in the public and
private sector -- particularly in manufacturing -- have shown some growth
momentum, it is possible that the overall GDP growth rate will still be ahead
of population growth and will amount to perhaps 4% in real terms.
10.       Recent fiscal and monetary developments present a mixed picture.
Last year's acceleration in economic growth and imports engendered rapid
growth in government revenues, which rose by about 25% in FY78. Current
expenditure meanwhile rose at about the same rate, reflecting partly a sub-
stantial upward adjustment in the very low salaries of government personnel.
The net result was only a small increase in the current surplus. At the same
time, development expenditures also rose rapidly. In spite of increased aid
disbursements, deficit financing amounted to Tk 1.1 billion, about 9% of cur-
rent revenue. Inflation again became a problem, and this is a worrisome
aspect of current developments in Bangladesh. Overall liquidity continued
to rise during FY78 and began to have its effect on the price level. The
cost of living increased by some 15% in FY78 as compared to 1% in FY77.
Seeking to keep inflation under control, the Government drew up a balanced
budget for FY79. But in spite of continued growth in current revenue and
large aid disbursements, there may still be an overall deficit. Reasons for
this include an apparent underestimation of the cost of the fertilizer sub-
sidy, the still heavy weight of the food subsidy, and the dampening effect of
wage increases on the revenue transfers by the public corporations. Expan-
sionary factors include the stepped-up grain procurement program, expanding
agricultural credit, and increasing financial needs of the private industrial
sector. It will be hard to contain the combined effect of these potentially
inflationary factors during the current year. Monetary and credit restraint,
and most importantly, increased efforts in domestic resource mobilization
will be required in order to create the conditions for balanced future growth.
11.       The most significant development in the FY78 balance of payments
was a 56% increase in import payments after a low import level in FY77.
Almost one fifth of this increase consisted of an increase in grain imports
needed to bring food stocks to a safe level; the remainder provided much of
the wherewithal for accelerated GDP growth: fertilizer, cement, spare parts,
industrial raw materials and capital goods. There was also a sizeable
increase in consumer goods imports.
12.       Although export earnings rose in FY78 by 8%, the surge in imports
resulted in a more-than-doubling of the trade deficit--from $405 million in
FY77 to $852 million FY78. (It should be noted, however, that this was
less than FY75 and FY76 deficits which averaged $950 million.) The increased



- 4 -
export earnings in FY78 represented a continuation of a trend that began with
the 1975 devaluation. The main determinant of last year's improvement was a
16% increase in export prices, especially of traditional exports such as
jute and tea. Although raw jute exports declined due to supply shortages,
jute goods exports were buoyant, mainly due to fiber shortages in inter-
national markets, some substitution of jute for synthetics, and government
incentive policies, including special export bonus subsidies.  Jute and jute
product exports still account for about 70% of total Bangladeshi exports.
The growth of minor and non-traditional exports in FY78 was modest as com-
pared with the previous year.
13.       An increasingly significant development in recent years has been
the upward trend in workers' remittances, mostly from migrants to the Middle
East. These remittances amounted to an estimated $83 million in FY78 and
are projected to reach $100 million this year. An offsetting effect, however,
has been the loss of trained Bangladeshis. This had led both to higher costs
for skills in short supply and to delays in implementing certain projects.
(An analysis of this labor migration and its costs and benefits is currently
underway; this study is being financed under the Bank's central research
program.)
14.       The balance of payments for the current year, FY79, is likely to
be marked by a slower growth in imports. The trade deficit is nevertheless
likely to be larger than last year's, partly because of an expected 5%
deterioration in the terms of trade after an improvement of 22% in FY78.
With development expenditures projected to continue to rise, both the Bank
and Government anticipate an FY79 current account deficit slightly over $1
billion. In view of the settlement of certain short-term liabilities and
amortization payments on medium- and long-term debt, the total gap to be
covered by foreign aid disbursements is estimated at almost $1,100 million.
Structural Conditions and Development Issues
15.       Notwithstanding recent gains, especially in foodgrain output and
per capita GDP growth, the salient conditions of Bangladesh are still mass
poverty; a unique environment prone to natural disasters; and dependence on
aid, not only for investment financing but also for food and other recurrent
inputs. Life expectancy is short, child mortality is high, and human fertil-
ity remains largely unchecked. A large part of the adult population is
illiterate, ill-fed, ill-housed and underemployed. Although the economy has
largely recovered from the shocks suffered in the early 1970's, in a number
of areas it has yet to reach the FY70 levels. In FY78 per capita income
($91), domestic savings (3% of GDP), per capita rice production (notwith-
standing last year's record crop) and average nutrition levels remained
depressed below their pre-independence levels. The investment ratio (13%
of GDP in FY78) was restored to about the FY69 rate, after some years of
depression to considerably lower levels. And the country remains critically
dependent upon foreign aid, which covers some 75-80% of public investment.



16.       Bangladesh has not been self-sufficient in food for over two decades.
In spite of foodgrain imports averaging 1.8 million tons annually in recent
years (1.3 million tons in FY78), nutritional levels are believed to be in-
adequate for half the population. Farm holdings are small and fragmented.
The density of population on the land is already extremely high, and land-
lessness is on the increase; almost half the rural population (comprising
nearly 90% of Bangladesh's 83 million people) is landless or virtually land-
less. Population growth is continuing at a rapid pace--about 2.7% annually.
The country's resources are essentially its land, water, and people. Other
natural resoures, excepting some natural gas deposits, are meager. The
infrastructure remains inadequate, and the lack of managerial and adminis-
trative skills has hindered the country's ability both to plan and to imple-
ment its policies and projects effectively.
17.       Another constraint on development is the segmented social order
characterizing rural Bangladesh. Agricultural change, which is critical to
overall development, is impeded by a rural power structure and social system
that often works to obstruct collective agricultural interests at the village
level. This system tends to allow development initiatives to be captured
by the better-off, as the national government has only limited control over
local behavior. Consequently, government and donor attempts to impose out-
side organization and direction in the interest of the poorest rural classes
have often been frustrated.
18.       Confronted by the formidable structural conditions and constraints,
the Government is currently using the period of its Two Year Plan for
FYs 79-80(TYP), as noted above, to rationalize certain policies and to clarify
its medium- and longer-term development strategies. The TYP itself recognizes
population control and rural development as top priorities. A nationwide
framework for family planning services has been established, and experiments
have been made with various types of rural development models. Steps have
been taken to provide incentive prices for foodgrains through appropriate
procurement policies, to reduce the levels of producer and consumer subsidies
and to improve the working of public sector corporations, most notably in the
jute manufacturing sector. Greater scope is being given to the private indus-
trial sector. And the Government has established a Project Implementation
Bureau as a means to help speed up the slow pace of project implementation.
The beneficial results of these reforms are not always readily apparent, and
in a number of cases will take considerable time to show. The TYP itself
is, of course, unlikely to change the course of development, since its period
is too short and most of the development budget during these two years (83%)
is preempted by ongoing projects. Moreover, the TYP's targets in the funda-
mental areas of employment creation and population control are unrealistic.
A further weakness is that the TYP does not clearly indicate which economic
projects have been weeded out nor what criteria are to be used to make
decisions about abandoning such projects during the remainder of the TYP
period.
19.       The TYP document lists five important areas where the policy makers
must make critical choices: (i) the respective roles of the public and



- 6 -
private sectors; (ii) the organization of agricultural producers; (iii) the
goals of the national education policy; (iv) the role of subsidies in agri-
cultural prices; and (v) the respective roles of foreign aid and domestic
savings in development financing. While outlining alternative solutions for
these major problem areas, the document does not present a full analysis
of the options. Moreover, it only raises the question of the creation of
non-farm employment for those who can no longer be absorbed by agriculture.
This problem is assuming increasing importance and requires concentrated
Government attention. Other key issues requiring urgent and detailed atten-
tion include pricing policy, improvement in levels of domestic savings,
expansion of export earnings, greater efficiency in project preparation and
implementation, and means to improve public sector management.
20.       Although work on both the Perspective Plan (1980-2000) and the
Second Five Year Plan is still in a preliminary stage, present indications
are that the Government will give emphasis to the following: (i) legal and
institutional changes to bring about a rural orientation and decentraliza-
tion of planning; (ii) achievement of food self-sufficiency by 1985;
(iii) employment creation and population control; (iv) drastic reductions
in subsidies and other means to mobilize domestic resources; and (iv) a
major new effort to reduce illiteracy. It remains to be seen, of course,
what specific new modalities will be devised for achieving these broad
objectives. But clearly these are all central objectives, and much of IDA's
own economic and sectoral work program is currently addressed to the analysis
of rural development (including the dynamics of demographic growth), food
production, trade policy and industrial development prospects, and domestic
resources mobilization. Considerable attention is also being given, par-
ticularly by IDA's resident mission, to finding ways and means to improve
aid coordination and project implementation.
21.       It appears to be generally appreciated, therefore, that in the
preparation of a development strategy and plan with realistic short and
medium-term targets, a clear set of priorities and a consistent resource
allocation pattern will need to focus on the following key areas: First,
and central to any program to raise living standards, is the need to check
the rapid growth of population. The main specific task is to increase effec-
tive delivery of family planning services, while continuing to motivate
families to practice birth control. The second key area, because of its
large potential for supplying food requirements and providing a broad dis-
tribution of benefits, is the need to increase agricultural productivity.
IDA is currently collaborating with the Government in the formulation of a
medium-term crop production plan. Farm yields are far below what is environ-
mentally and technologically feasible. The main constraints -- inadequate
incentives, inefficient delivery of inputs, and the slow progress of rural
development programs -- are essentially administrative in nature. The rural
power and social structure compound the inherent difficulties in mounting
and administering large programs that will reach effectively the many mil-
lions of people that live in Bangladeshi villages. These difficulties must
be tackled with great resolve and singleness of purpose if they are to be
overcome. Third, exports and supporting agricultural and industrial devel-
opment are essential to the country's future economic vaibility. In this



- 7 -
connection, improved efficiency of the jute industry, expansion of labor-
intensive industries based on local raw materials (e.g. tea, fish, leather,
paper, spices, fruits, vegetables and handicrafts), and the promotion of new
industrial export products are essential elements of a successful export
strategy. The fourth key area is to increase domestic resource mobilization.
While the potential for increased public and private saving beyond the rate
of growth of the economy may be limited, some margin should be possible
through measures to increase taxation, improve tax administration and reduce
the very large subsidies to public corporations. While these elements of a
development strategy are not the only requirements to improve the economy,
they are among the most important and will themselves place heavy demands on
an understaffed and overburdened development administration. The fifth area,
therefore, is to strengthen the administration and to economize on the demands
placed upon it. Where administrative capacity is limited, administrative
controls in such matters as industrial policy, pricing, food policy and trade
should be minimized to the extent feasible and consistent with social objec-
tives. There remains considerable scope also for administrative economy in
these and other areas and through greater decentralization of authority and
responsibility.
22.       External Capital Requirements.  Even with significant improvement
in its domestic resource mobilization , Bangladesh will continue to need
substantial external assistance to support its development efforts. In the
short run, such support is even becoming more important in view of the fact
that the pace of development expenditures has begun to accelerate. It is
roughly estimated that aid disbursements, which amounted to $797 million in
FY78, should rise to $1,095 million in FY79. These would comprise $250 mil-
lion of food, $520 million of commodities and $325 million of project aid.
Since Bangladesh began the year with an aid pipeline amounting to $1,912
million, it should be possible to disburse about $625 million from that pipe-
line. Hence, about $470 million of disbursements from new aid would be
necessary. To yield disbursements at this level in FY79 and to build up the
pipeline for FY80, required FY79 commitments are estimated at approximately
$1,600 million. On the basis of donor pledges and indications given at the
January 1979 Aid Group meetings, and taking into account actual and prospec-
tive commitments by other donors, it appears that this target will be realized.
It is important to stress that Bangladesh's capital requirements must be met
to a large extent by external assistance, at least for the time being, if
economic growth and execution of current development plans are not to be
slowed for lack of financial resources. At the same time, the Government
must strive to increase exports, to be prudent in the use of foreign exchange,
and to make increased efforts to increase domestic resource mobilization.
Finally, in the context of the above-noted limitations of Bangladesh's devel-
opment administration, it should be recognized that substantial improvements
in administration are likely to take many years. Hence, the Government, IDA
and other external assistance agencies will have to tailor their requirements
in terms of project design, preparation and implementation to these adminis-
trative realities. And in all cases, particular priority should be given to
those sectors and those types of financial and technical assistance where
institutional improvements are most needed.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
23.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.  Ini-
tially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation
of uncompleted projects, financed under credits made originally to Pakistan,
before 1971.  Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.2 million (including
US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under the
corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of cancellations) were made
to Bangladesh. In addition, as of April 30, 1979, 30 new credits, excluding
the consolidation credit of US$31 million referred to in paragraph 24, have
been made, totalling US$843.7 million. Of these, US$500 million have been
for seven program credits. The project credits have emphasized agricultural
development, but also included amounts for population, telecommunications,
transport and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the 105th member
of the IFC, and IFC's first investment (Highspeed Shipbuilding and Engineering
Co., Ltd.) was approved on May 10, 1979.
24.       Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the bilat-
eral and multilateral donors, concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of
portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan, before Bangladesh became inde-
pendent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the debt
service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% before the late 1980's, it could
do so thereafter, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and aid
is provided on appropriately concessional terms. With respect to the Bank
Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA credits
extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before
independence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of about US$54.9
million, and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0 million were signed
on February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding
external debt is not expected to rise significantly above the present level
of about 27% over the next few years.
25.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of January 31, 1979, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged somewhat owing inter
alia to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employ-
ment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Government has taken
some steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are now being reflected
in improvements in project implementation and disbursement performance.
However, serious implementation constraints remain because of shortage of
qualified staff, over-centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational
deficiencies. Progress is being made on these issues. For example, at the
Government's request, IDA is providing assistance to improve organization
and procedures, especially in the ministries and agencies dealing with agri-
culture and water resources. Furthermore, the Government has taken actions
including improved procedures for recruitment of civil servants and increased
emphasis on training - which are important not only as steps towards gradually
improving the quality of public administration, but also as evidence of its
awareness of the problem and concern to do something about it. On the



- 9 -
organizational side, it is the Government's intention to establish planning
cells in the main ministries and agencies and is strengthening the Planning
Ministry. In this connection, IDA is providing assistance both under specific
projects and under three Technical Assistance Credits (Credit 490-BD, 622-BD
and 872-BD).
26.       Of the 23 new project credits totalling US$343.7 million, 14 credits
totalling US$241.5 million have been directed towards agriculture and rural
development (excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance credits allo-
cated to this sector). Their basic objective is to support the delivery of
inputs, including assured water, through quick yielding projects with low
capital intensity. While the pace of implementation has been disappointing
so far, the fundamental need to improve agricultural productivity means that
projects geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future
IDA lending. However, in the short term, the rate of planned lending for
agriculture will be a function of progress in improving the currently limited
absorptive capacity of the project executing agencies. At the same time,
greater efforts in institution building are being made through closer super-
vision and technical assistance where necessary. Some progress has already
been made in correcting problems in ongoing projects. Over the next year,
proposed credits for rural works and low-lift pumps are expected to be ready
for consideration.
27.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the seven program credits
approved to date. For the reasons given in paragraph's 34-39 of the Presi-
dent's Report and Recommendation on the Seventh Imports Program Credit
(P-2373-BD, dated November 29, 1978), program lending to Bangladesh will
continue to be required while efforts are made to correct basic structural
weaknesses in the economy. Nevertheless, the share of program lending in total
lending on a year-to-year basis is planned to decline gradually during the
next few years. The industrial sector has also benefitted from DFC and small
industry projects and a fertilizer production project.
28.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an ex-
tremely high priority sector, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first population project (Credit 533-BD) is now making some progress, and a
proposal for a second population project is currently being condsidered.
Improved education and availability of trained manpower is also crucial. Past
lending in this field has emphasized agricultural and technical training and
future operations, while maintaining a similar basic emphasis, are expected to
include assistance for vocational and management education as well.
29.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, specific efforts to identify and
prepare projects in agriculture, transport, industry, energy and power, and
telecommunicatiions are now underway. In this connection, particular emphasis
will be placed upon those possible projects which provide infrastructure for
the rural sector, which process or provide outlets for its products, or which
reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Such projects



- 10 -
could make significant contributions towards supporting Bangladesh develop-
ment efforts. In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position,
IDA credits should cover all foreign exchange costs. However, all external
lenders are inhibited from achieving the levels of resource transfers appro-
priate to Bangladesh's economic circumstances by difficulties in the prepara-
tion and implementation of development projects. The Government's capacity
to carry out projects is constrained, inter-alia, by a low domestic savings
rate. In these circumstances, and in order to direct IDA lending to those
sectors - such as agricultural and rural development - where the percentage
of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency
expenditures is also justified.
30.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
31.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design, preparation and
implementation to the administrative realities. They will also have to con-
template higher amounts of technical assistance and supervision than is the
case in many other countries. Nevertheless, there are opportunities for
making significant progress in improving economic conditions for the people
of Bangladesh. Although progress is bound to be slow and will require pains-
taking efforts, these efforts are nonetheless worth making.
32.       In the past the World Bank Group has not been involved in the
financing of power operations in Bangladesh because projects with higher
priorities in other sectors offered themselves for more urgent consideration.
However, the Bank Group followed closely the development of the power sector,
participating with UNDP in a technical assistance project (1968) for general
consultant services for water/agriculture and power. In this project an
Association Credit covered the foreign exchange cost of the consultants, with
the Association acting as executing agency. In a subsequent arrangement, the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) assumed responsibility for
financing power services, whereas the Association continued the services for
irrigation/agriculture. The Reconstruction Imports Credit of 1972 included
about US$5.2 million for the purchase of spare parts for the power sector.
However, the Government subsequently asked for modification of the Credit
allocation in favor of agriculture, transport and industry, which reflected the
availability of alternative financing sources for power at that time, as well
as the Government's overall priorities and development objectives. With the
expected expansion of the country's economy the need for much larger invest-
ments in the power sector is now arising. Consequently, it is considered
appropriate for the Association at this time to start participation in the
development of the power sector.



- 11 -
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
The Role of the Sector in the Economy
33.       At present, the role of the power sector in the econumy is limited,
providing neither sufficient supply nor reliability to meet the country's
development needs. The industrial and commercial consumption in the country
accounts for about 77% of the total. Domestic and agricultural consumption
remain low; but agricultural demand is expected to increase rapidly due
to the Government's plans for accelerated rural electrification. There are
only about 403,500 customers, which is very low in a country of about 83
million inhabitants, and the per capita consumption is not more than about
15 kWh. This compares to about 140 kWh in India and 147 kWh in Pakistan. By
mid-1978, about 320 of the country's 422 thanas 1/ were supplied with electri-
city; but less than 3% of the 65,000 villages were electrified, and only about
4% of the population has access to electricity. This percentage will slowly
increase when the impact of urban and rural electrification programs begin
to be felt. The sector employs directly about 0.1% of the country's labor
force, but its impact on the overall employment situation is considerable when
account is taken of the secondary effect on industry for which it is one of
the prime energy sources.
Energy Resources and Consumption
34.       Natural gas is the country's major source of economically available
commercial energy. There are seven fields with proven reserves (250 billion
cubic meters) sufficient for about a 20 year supply of commercial energy when
the high consumption growth rate of about 30% per year is assumed. All gas
fields are in the east zone 2/ of Bangladesh and, unfortunately, no market-
able quantities of gas have been identified so far in the west zone. Recent
explorations indicate, however, that natural gas may exist near Barisal,
Rajshahi and Natore in the west. The northwestern part of the country has
coal reserves estimated at about one billion tons. However, the deposits are
at a depth of about 1,000 meters and under soft, water-bearing layers, which
prevents their economic extraction. Oil explorations have so far not yielded
any positive result. The importance of hydro power is limited and existing
hydroelectric stations and projects are confined to the Chittagong Hill
tract area in the east zone. The prospects for hydro projects on either the
Brahmaputra or Ganges rivers are remote because of their very shallow gradients.
1/   Thana is an administrative sub-unit of a district.
2/   The Brahmaputra and Ganges rivers join in Bangladesh to form the Padma
river. This river system divides the country into two zones - the
east and west zone - with no surface transport link, and no electric
power interconnection at the present time.
3/   The study was prepared in 1976 by a group of consulting firms.  Financing
for the study was provided by the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) and was administered by the Asian Development Bank (ADB).



- 12 -
35.       According to the Bangladesh Energy Study, 3/ noncommercial energy
(firewood and vegetable/animal wastes) represents by far the largest share
of the total energy consumption. In 1974, the latest year for which data are
available, it accounted for 73% of all energy requirements, whereas commercial
energy reached a level of only about 27% (13% imported oil products, 11%
natural gas, 2% coal and 1% hydroelectricity). Bangladesh's per capita
consumption of commercial energy is extremely low (33 kilogram standard coal
equivalent in 1976) 1/ only about 8% of the average consumption of all devel-
oping countries of 426 kgce per capita. 2/
Sector Organization
36.       Prior to the 1947 partition, the power sector of East Bengal devel-
oped on a private basis. Between 1947 and the late-1950s, a gradual involve-
ment of the Government in the sector occurred, at first through the Govern-
ment's Electricity Department and later through its Electricity Directorate.
During this period the Government took over a number of private utilities and
also developed additional power facilities, mostly in the form of isolated
generating stations supplying electricity for local distribution networks. In
1959, the East Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority (EPWAPDA) was
created to be responsible for water resources and power development throughout
the province, and to coordinate possible development of multipurpose hydro-
electric dams and agricultural demand for electric power. EPWAPDA's power
wing took over the Electricity Directorate with all Government-owned power
facilities, and it gradually expanded by absorbing more private utilities and
integrating the main markets within the east and west zones of the country.
37.       However, since there was no major site suitable for economic devel-
opment of multipurpose projects, and because it was realized that EPWAPDA's
power and water activities should be independent because of their different
operational and financial patterns 3/, the government of newly-independent
Bangladesh decided to separate the two activities. Consequently, President's
Order No. 59 of 1972 (as amended) created the Bangladesh Water Development
Board (BWDB), responsible for the development and utilization of the country's
water resources and flood control, and the Bangladesh Power Development Board
(BPDB), both under the supervision of the Ministry of Power, Flood Control
and Water Resources.
38.       Two Government agencies are concerned with electric power, the
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), and the Rural Electrification
Board (REB). At present, BPDB is the sole supplier of electricity in the
1/   One kilogram standard coal equivalent (kgce) = 7,000 kilocalories.
2/   Source:  United Nations Statistics 1978 on World Energy Supplies
1972-1976.
3/   EPWAPDA's power wing was operated on a commercial basis whereas the
water wing was entirely dependent on the Government budget for invest-
ment and operation funding.



- 13 -
country whereas REB is concerned only with the construction of rural elec-
trification projects (para 42). Power installations owned and operated by
various industries amount to some 120 MW -- about 17% of all available
capacity -- of which the more important ones are those of the paper mills
in Khulna (24 MW) and Chittagong (29 MW) and of the fertilizer plants in
Fenchuganj (36 MW) and Ghorasal (16 MW). Many of the installations are
for standby purposes in case of interruption of the public supply.
The Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)
39.       BPDB's management consists of a Chairman and not more than five
members, responsible for generation/transmission, distribution, finance and
personnel/training and planning. The organization appears to be a normal
setup for a power utility with well defined lines of responsibility. However,
there is little delegation of authority, leading to excessive concentration
of decision making at the level of top management. Overstaffing creates
inefficiency and cumbersome administrative procedures; and the lack of an
efficient internal reporting system results in little information being
quickly available to managers at all levels about the actual status of BPDB's
operations and finances.
40.       The Government has retained the responsibility for policy formula-
tion concerning electric power development within the framework of the country's
overall development plans. It also gets involved in day-to-day matters such
as creation of personnel positions, salary levels and structures and budget
approval and control, effectively relegating BPDB's role to that of a Govern-
ment department. Although undesirable in the context of effective management,
this is understandable in view of the Government's policy to control the major
sectors of the economy.
41.        Sponsored by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and other aid agen-
cies, a number of management improvement efforts have been initiated, aimed
at raising the quality of BPDB's operations and improving its finances. These
efforts comprise:
(a) the Bangladesh Energy Study (para 35), which includes exten-
sive recommendations concerning the power sector;
(b) a management consulting study;
(c) preparation of a countrywide power system rehabilitation
project;
(d) accounting consultant services; and
(e) a tariff study.
Most of the above activities have either started only recently or are just
being started. For this reason BPDB's operations are still deficient and,
under normal circumstances, the introduction of a major institution building
effort on the part of the Association would be desirable. However, under the



- 14 -
prevailing circumstances, reinforcement of the ongoing rehabilitation plan
developed by GOB/BPDB and endorsed by ADB rather than starting of new activi-
ties is considered more conducive to BPDB's recovery.
Rural Electrification Board (REB)
42.       In 1977, the Government created REB with the responsibility of
developing electricity supply in the rural areas. Following recommendations
developed by the US Agency for International Development (USAID), REB plans
to implement its rural electrification strategy through a system of rural
cooperatives. At present, both BPDB and REB undertake rural electrification;
but in accordance with the REB Ordinance, REB will ultimately assume respon-
sibility for all rural electrification, which may also include supply to
industries in certain urban areas to be designated by the Government. It
is also planned that BPDB's electrical distribution assets and associated
liabilities in rural areas will be transferred either to REB directly or to
the rural cooperatives.
43.       The present legislation concerning REB is silent about the level
and structure of tariffs to be charged to rural bulk customers. The Govern-
ment's policy, however, calls for operation of BPDB on a commercial basis,
whereas rural electrification would be subsidized. Subsidies for rural
electrification will be provided by GPOB directly to rural bulk customers.
BPDB, on its part, will take all action necessary to ensure that tariffs for
the supply of electricity to REB and the Rural Cooperatives are set at levels
that will provide revenues sufficient to: (i) cover the administrative and
operating expenses associated with BPDB's assets and operations required to
provide such electricity supply; and (ii) produce an annual rate of return on
BPDB's currently valued net fixed assets in operation required to provide such
electricity suppply which is at least equivalent to the annual rate of return
BPDB earns on its total assets (Section 4.04(b) of the Project Agreement).
Electricity Consumption
44.       BPDB's projections of the total electricity consumption are based
on extrapolations of historic trends adjusted to take into account specific
future development projects as well as BPDB's anticipated capability to expand
supply. On this basis, average annual sales increases of 14.7% are expected
during FYs 79-84. This trend compares to about 13% during the period FYs
76-78, the time of normalization following the shock of large oil price
increases in 1973. On an annual basis, however, sales have increased by
11.6% in FY76, 8.7% in FY77 and 18.9% in FY78, indicating a generally
increasing trend. The share of industrial sales is expected to decrease
from its present 66% to about 58% in FY85, and that of domestic consumption
from about 15% to about 13% over the same period. As in the recent past,
agricultural consumption, mainly for irrigation, is expected to remain the
most rapidly growing category, increasing its share of total sales from about
2% at present to about 14% in FY85.



- 15 -
Status of Electricity Supply
45.       Electricity supply is unreliable, and partial or total blackouts
for varying lengths of time are frequent. This is largely due to worn out
equipment, insufficient maintenance and heavily loaded distribution networks,
all a consequence of a severe shortage of funds. System losses are high,
reaching 37% including station consumption. In contrast to BPDB's generation
and distribution facilities, the transmission network is reasonably well
developed.
BPDB's Development Program
46.       BPDB's development program is based on the UNDP-financed Bangladesh
Energy Study (paragraph 35), modified, however, to take into account the
constraints in obtaining foreign and local funds. The total dependence on
foreign aid for imported equipment as well as the perennial shortage of local
counterpart funds have prevented BPDB from adhering fully to the least cost
investment program suggested in the energy study. Instead, BPDB has been
forced to resort to costly emergency installations. In order to place system
planning on a sound basis, the Government, with the assistance of BPDB's plan-
ning department, will establish a long-range power development plan for the
country which is based on least cost solutions and the availability of local
fuel resources. The plan will also be useful in identifying future projects
to prospective donor countries/agencies for their financing. The Government
will prepare and furnish to the Association for its reivew not later than
June 30, 1980, a draft of the long-range power development plan. The plan
will be reviewed annually in consultation with IDA (Section 3.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement).
47.       The development program for FYs 79-85 as presently planned is
expected to cost Tk 18.6 billion at current cost, of which Tk 10.1 billion
are foreign and Tk 8.5 billion local. Investments for generation account
for half of the total, while those for transmission and distribution account
for the other half. Although not large in absolute terms, the program may
exceed the country's ability to mobilize resources and cutbacks may therefore
occur.
External Assistance
48.       Bangladesh has been sucessful in the past in securing foreign funds
from various sources for the development of the power sector. Since most of
the foreign lenders are prepared to finance only the foreign cost of projects
and expansion schemes, the power sector along with many other segments of the
economy has suffered from a shortage of local counterpart funds, delaying
project implementation. Of the projects presently under execution, USAID is
providing funds (US$2.5 million) for the 50 MW extension of the Kaptai hydro-
electric plant and Czechoslovakia has been approached for financing of two
more 50 MW units. The same country is assisting in the installation of the
60 MW steam plant in Chittagong and the 110 MW steam unit for the extension
of the Khulna station. Sweden is providing about US$3 million for the



- 16 -
installation of a 12 MW gas turbine in Khulna and the Kreditanstalt fuer
Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germany has made available about US$5 million for a
20 MW combustion turbine in Bheramara. Recently, Japan has agreed to finance
two 28 MW combustion turbines (bargemounted) for Khulna. Various lenders are
providing financial assistance for transmission and distribution projects,
the most notable being the Asian Development Bank (ADB - US$27.7 million for
Chittagong distribution), the United Kingdom (US$50 million - Greater Dacca
distribution), the Kuwait/Abu Dhabi Funds (US$38.5 million - East-West
Interconnector) and USAID (US$50 million-rural electrification). The United
Kingdom has also indicated its intention to provide about US$55 million for
rural electrification through cooperatives. In addition, various donor
agencies are providing funds for technical assistance, mainly in the field of
training.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.       The project was appraised by a Mission which visited Bangladesh in
February, 1979. A report entitled, "Bangladesh - Staff Appraisal Report -
Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project" (No. 2476-BD) dated May 30, 1979
is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were
held in Washington in May, 1979. GOB and BPDB were represented by a delega-
tion headed by Mr. Majid of the External Resources Division, Ministry of
Finance. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
50.        The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a)  rehabilitation, reinforcement and expansion of the elec-
tricity distribution systems in the Khulna district (west
zone);
(b)  provision of training facilities and teachers for BPDB's
training center in Khulna; and
(c) contribution to an institution building effort through
strengthening BPDB's planning capability and improving
its financial position.
Project Description and Cost
51.       The project consists of providing and installing equipment and
materials for distribution of electricity, training services and equipment,
and buildings: and it also includes provision of consulting services for
project engineering and implementation. The project will provide approxi-
rnatelv 33.000 new customer connections, and will rehabilitate another 20,000
existing connections. The training component will focus on training of
opeiational level personnel concerned with construction and maintenance of
disttibution networks. The cost of the project is as follows:



- 17 -
------US$ Million------
Foreign   Local   Total
Equipment and Civil Works           14.6      10.2    24.8
Engineering Consultants              0.8      0.2      1.0
Training                             0.7       0.4     1.1
BPDB's salaries for project
staff and administrative costs    -         2.8      2.8
16.1     13.6    29.7
Contingencies
(i)  Physical                      1.5      1.0      2.5
(ii) Price                         2.8      5.3      8.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST (before
duties and taxes)                 20.4      19.9    40.3
Duties and Taxes                      -       3.9      3.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       20.4      23.8    44.2
The cost estimate is based on late-1978 prices.  Physical contingencies of
10% on equipment, materials and civil works, and price contingencies of 7%
per year on the foreign cost and about 10% on the local cost were allowed for.
The cost of engineering is estimated on the basis of US$7,500 per man-month
plus direct expenses. Duties and taxes totalling 21% for imported equipment
and materials were added in accordance with local regulations.
Project Implementation
52.       BPDB has prepared the feasibility study for the project with its
own staff, using the experience gained with similar projects in the country.
The study has been adequately carried out. Consultants will assist BPDB in
detailed project design, drafting of specifications, bidding documents and
contracts, and supervision of project implementation. Selection of the
engineering consultants is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
(Section 5.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement). Project construction
and installation would be carried out largely by local contractors and to a
lesser extent by BPDB's own staff. This follows BPDB's normal pattern for
such small-scale works, and has worked satisfactorily in the past. A project
unit will be established in Khulna, headed by a full-time engineer (project
manager) with adequate distribution network construction experience. The
project manager has been appointed. This unit will be responsible for appro-
priate and timely execution of the project; it will supervise the consultants,
organize and operate the project stores and warehouses, and will have a major
input in the evaluation of bids and decision on contract awards. The unit's
first important task is the initial field survey which will provide the con-
sultants with certain data needed for detailed project design. The project
is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.
Project Approval
53.       Project approval involves various steps within the Government and,
consequently, can be a time consuming process. The proposed project has been
included in Bangladesh's Annual Development Program and authorization for



- 18 -
incurring expenditures has been granted. The project is under current
review by the Project Evaluation Committee (PEC), but final approval by the
Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) is still out-
standing. Since full Government support is essential for the successful
implementation of the project, ECNEC approval of the Project Proforma
(summary of project data) is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit (Section 5.01(f) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Financing of the Project
54.       The foreign funds necessary to implement the proposed project will
be raised through a joint financing arrangement between the OPEC Special Fund
and the Association, with IDA financing 54% of the foreign exchange cost of
equipment associated with the proposed project and the OPEC Special Fund 46%.
To be assured of a complete financing plan of the project, signing of the OPEC
Special Fund Agreement is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
(Section 5.01(d) of the Development Credit Agreement). IDA will administer
the funds provided by the OPEC Special Fund under the standard procedures
applicable to the Fund. In addition, IDA will finance the expected total
cost of training and project engineering as well as locally procured equip-
ment, local freight, project construction and erection, and civil works. The
Government will provide budget funds for BPDB's overheads and the duties and
taxes payable on imported equipment and materials. The project financing plan
is as follows:
Foreign   J Local   Total
------US$ Million------
OPEC Special Fund
Equipment                          8.5          -      8.5    representing 46%
of the foreign cost.
Association
Equipment                         10.1         6.3    16.4    representing 54% of
the foreign and 100%
of the local cost
Construction and Erection           -          3.0     3.0 )
Civil Works                         -          4.2     4.2 )
Local Freight                       -          2.0     2.0 )  representing 100%
Training                           0.8         0.4     1.2 ) of total cost
Engineering Consultants            1.0         0.2     1.2 )
Total IDA                    11.9       16.1    28.0
Government
BPDB's salaries for project         -          3.8     3.8
staff and administrative
costs                           20.4        19.9    40.3
Duties and Taxes
(Government financing)              -         3.9      3.9
TOTAL FINANCING                   20.4        23.8    44.2



- 19 -
In accordance with the above financing plan IDA would finance about 70% of the
total project cost excluding duties and taxes, the OPEC Special Fund about 21%
and the Government about 9%.
Relending Arrangement
55.       The Government will onlend the proceeds of the proposed credit to
BPDB at 5% per annum interest and a term of 25 years including 5 years of
grace. The terms include a substantial concessionary element. 1/ They form
part of GOB's financial recovery plan (see paragraph 57) for BPDB and are
appropriate given BPDB's unfavorable financial position. Conclusion of the
onlending arrangement between the Government and BPDB is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (Sections 3.01(c) and 5.01(a) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
Financial and Institutional Improvements
56.       BPDB's financial situation has been critical for a number of years
and has now reached a stage where the Board is unable to cover its cash oper-
ating expenses. BPDB's total cash deficit has reached 69% of revenues in FY79
(US$26.7 million equivalent) and is expected to be reduced only to about 25%
of revenues in FY80 (US$15.8 million equivalent) despite the tariff increase
of 38% (paragraph 63) due to become effective in July 1979. Government subsi-
dies, often granted only after considerable delays were used to cover the
deficits.  The primary reasons for this unfavorable performance are ineffi-
cient operation and low tariffs, which have not been increased since 1974.
57.       To improve BPDB's financial position, the Government and BPDB have
prepared a financial recovery plan designed to reach cost coverage by revenues
in FY82 through a series of specific steps. ADB agreed with this approach
and included the plan in the documents of its FY78 loan for the Chittagong
Power Distribution Project. The plan includes the following major elements:
1/   During the past three years, inflation in Bangladesh (GDP deflator)
developed as follows:
1975/76:    -12.3%
1976/77:     -5.3%
1977/78:       6.2%
In the future, the following trend is expected:
1978/79:      11.0%
1979/80:       9.5%
1980/81:       8.5%
With Government approval, BPDB borrows small amounts in the local capital
market through issuance of bonds at about 9% interest and a term of about
20 years including 5 years of grace. BPDB bears the full foreign exchange
risk.



- 20 -
(a) restructuring of BPDB's debt by increasing GOB's equity,
and by converting terms of recent loans to 5% interest
per annum, and 25 year repayment, including 5 years
of grace;
(b) separation of rural electrification investments and
their financing on the basis of Government grants;
(c) creation of a tariff committee and a tariff cell within
BPDB with the responsibility of recommending revisions
in the power tariffs from time to time;
(d) reduction of unit cost for fuel by 15% by 1980;
(e) reduction of system losses, including station consumption,
to 20% of gross generation by 1980; and
(f) restriction of operating cost escalation to 5% per year
starting FY78.
58.       The Plan is a commendable attempt to improve BPDB's operations and
to restore its financial viability; but some of the targets, for instance the
loss reduction, the fuel cost reduction and the restriction of operating cost
escalation, have become infeasible from a technical as well as economic point
of view. The Government and BPDB have therefore undertaken a review of the
most urgent aspects of the Plan in order to establish a program of priority
actions which, together with the necessary tariff increases, would permit the
Board to cover its costs through revenues in FY82, and to earn a reasonable
return on investment thereafter.
59.       The most urgent aspects of the financial recovery plan are:
(a) a program designed to reduce BPDB's system losses;
(b) a power system rehabilitation program;
(c) a management improvement effort; and
(d) an early tariff increase of at least 38% designed to improve
quickly BPDB's financial position.
60.       After analyzing the causes for BPDB's high system losses (determined
to be due primarily to overloading of distribution systems and defective
metering and billing), and establishing a reasonable estimate of the time frame
within which gradual improvement can be achieved, BPDB agreed that it will
take all steps necessary to reduce system losses, including station consump-
tion, to the following levels:



- 21 -
Percent of Total
Electricity Generation
FY79 (actual)                         37
FY80                                  34
FY81                                 31
FY82                                 29
FY83                                  27
FY84                                  25
FY85                                 23
BPDB also agreed to ensure that from FY85 the technical losses in its dis-
tribution network together with non-technical consumption (losses due to
defective metering and billing) do not exceed 18% of BPDB's electricity
generation.
61.       BPDB is presently carrying out a Power System Rehabilitation Study
with the assistance of consultants financed from funds of ADB. This study
will establish the scope of the necessary rehabilitation of BPDB's system,
will define the financial and technical resources required, and will draft
guidelines and schedules for planning of system maintenance. It will also
assist BPDB in identifying methods and formulating procedures for securing
in a timely manner the foreign exchange allocation necessary for spare parts,
equipment and material for the continuing regular maintenance of the power
system. Upon completion of the study, which is expected not later than
June 30, 1980, BPDB will consult with IDA on the steps to be taken in imple-
menting the recommendations of the study. Close coordination will be kept
with ADB during these consultations.
62.       An ADB-financed review of BPDB's management has recommended a
partial reorganization with the objective of providing more delegation
of responsibility to lower levels of management, spreading the workload more
evenly, removing overlaps of responsibilities, and establishing new office
procedures where required. The draft report of this management review has
recently been submitted to the Government for consideration. The Govern-
ment and BPDB have agreed to consult with IDA, not later than December 31,
1979, on the action to be taken in implementing the recommendations in the
management report in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Govern-
ment, BPDB and IDA. The consultations will be coordinated with ADB.
63.       BPDB's tariff levels, averaging only about USJ3 per kWh, are con-
siderably below the long-run marginal cost of supply. This level would be
too low even if BPDB's system were operated efficiently. Section 26 of the
Bangladesh President's Order No. 59 stipulates that BPDB's tariffs should
cover operating cost, interest charges, depreciation, amortization of debt
as far as it exceeds depreciation, and taxes, and should provide a reason-
able return on investment. A series of gradual tariff adjustments will be
required to reach this level. As a first step toward reaching financial
viability and toward achieving the targets mentioned in paragraph 64, the
Government and BPDB plan to increase BPDB's tariffs by 38% on July 1, 1979.



- 22 -
Effective implementation of this tariff increase is a condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed Credit (Section 5.01(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement). To facilitate subsequent tariff adjustments, the Government
and BPDB indicated their willingness to explore the feasibility of the early
introduction of an automatic fuel adjustment clause in BPDB's tariffs.
64.       As an indication of the effectiveness of BPDB's improvement efforts
outlined in paragraphs 59-62 as well as the Government's effectivenes in per-
mitting adjustment of tariffs as and when required, BPDB has agreed to take
all action necessary to achieve operating ratios 1/ of at least 135% in FY80,
at least 120% in FY81 and at least 100% in FY82 (Section 4.03(a) of the
Project Agreement). To assure BPDB's continued financial improvement after
FY82, BPDB will take all action necessary on its part to ensure that, with
effect from FY83, tariffs are set at levels that will provide revenues suf-
ficient to: (i) cover its administrative and operating expenses (including
maintenance and adequate provision for depreciation) and taxes and other
payments to the Borrower, if any, and (ii) produce an annual rate of return
on BPDB's currently valued net fixed assets in operation sufficient to cover
all interest payments and other charges on debt, adequate provision for bad
debts, and repayment of debt when due as far as such repayment exceeds depre-
ciation, and to finance a reasonable portion of BPDB's investment program
(Section 4.04(a) of the Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
65.        Supplies and equipment would be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Association's guidelines. There
are local manufacturers who may be able to participate successfully in the
bidding process for certain items. In this case, the standard 15% preference
on the c.i.f. price, or the prevailing duties, if lower, would be applicable
in bid evaluation. Items valued below US$20,000 aggregating not more than
US$200,000 may be procured in accordance with international shopping proce-
dures. As regards construction and erection work, the contracts involved are
small, and consequently local competitive bidding in accordance with the
country's procedures would apply.
66.       Disbursements of the proposed credit would cover:
(a)  90% of civil works;
(b)  54% of the equipment procured overseas;
(c) 80% of locally procured equipment to allow for imputed
duties and taxes and 100% of locally manufactured equipment
(ex-factory);
(d) 100% of equipment installation;
1/   Operating and maintenance expenses including depreciation, taxes,
interest and provision for bad debts divided by operating revenues.



- 23 -
(e) 100% of training equipment and services as well as civil
works connected with the training center in Khulna; and
(f) 100% of engineering services.
(g) 100% of local freight;
The IDA credit is expected to be disbursed by June 30, 1984.
Project Justification
67.       The project is required to strengthen BPDB's existing distribution
system by reducing losses, to expand BPDB's distribution facilities in the
area of Khulna and its environs, and to meet reliably the growing demand,
particularly industrial demand, in the area. Partial or total blackouts occur,
occasionally several times per day, and have led to severe disruptions in the
manufacturing processes of various industries. Demand in the project area is
expected to increase by an average of 11% per year and sales by 17%.
68.       Because the project consists of a part of BPDB's complex rehabilita-
tion and expansion program, it is impossible to separate in a meaningful way
that portion of the incremental benefits which can be attributed to it. An
internal economic rate of return on the project can therefore not be computed.
Instead, the return on the time slice FYs79-83 (project construction period)
of BPDB's total investment program, of which the project forms a part, has
been calculated. This internal economic rate of return is about 8%.
Risks
69.       The project is straightforward and easy to implement.  No special
risks are foreseen.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Bangladesh Power Development Board, and the recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
71.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Selection of engineering consultants (para 52), approval of the
Project Proforma by the Government (para 53), signing of the OPEC Special
Fund Agreement (para 54), conclusion of the onlending arrangement between
the Government and BPDB (para 55) and effective implementation of a tariff
increase of 38% (para 63) are additional conditions of credit effectiveness.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 4, 1979



- 25 -
ANNEX I
TARLE 3A
BANGLADBSR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REPERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MANGLADISEf9
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. !X.)                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIJATE)
TOTAL           144.0                                                 SAME        SAME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    101.1                               11905T UCEtNT   GEOGIAPHIC   INCOEt    INCOME
1960  Lb   1970 lb 1ST tATE L       REGION a    GROUP       GROUP L
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 40.0        60.0      90.0           167.4      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EOUIVALENT)       ..         ..      28.0            65.7       88.9       25147
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-AW
(MILLIONS)                       53.9        70.8     82.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCtNT OF TOTAL) 4.8         6.4       9.2            12.8       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RM.                     374.0       492.0    574.0             85.2       46.8       42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAD    566.0       730.0    818.0            322.6      254.1       95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.3        46.4      46.2           44.0       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                        52.5        51.0     51.1            52.9       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.2         2.6       2.6             2.9        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROVH RATE (PERCET)
TOTAL                             2.7         2.8       2.1 /f          2.2        2.4         2.7
URBAN                              ..         6.2       7.4             4.2        4.0        8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TIOUSAND)    49.8        50.3      49.5            45.1       44.3       42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (Pn T0OUSAND)    27.2         22.9      28.1            17.3       19.7       12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.5         3.1        ..             3.2        2.9        3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       345.6    655.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WlI)    ..           ..       4.7            13.7       14.6       14.2
FOOD AND NUTITION
INDEl OF F0OD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           106.2      IO.0       93.7            95.6       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REqUIRDMNTS)                   89.0        89.0      93.0            91.1       92.3       99.5
pROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         42.6          .       5 8.5          49.6       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       9.2          .        8.0            12.6      13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..          ..        ..             ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIPE EXPECTANCY AT 8IRTR (TEARS)    38.7       43.3      45.0            43.1      45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..    140.0            99.5      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCUT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             -          45.0      56.0           30.0       26.4        31.1
URBAN                              ..        13.0      22.0           66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                              ..        47.0      61.0           17.2       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PEICU2T
OF POPULATION)
O'.AL                              *'         6.0     '5.0            15.7       16.1        37.5
URBAN                              ..         ..      40.0            66.9       65.9        69.5
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..             2.5        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        10000.0 /    76O0.00h 11000.0         8830.8   13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER N1SING PERSON   110000.0 ^  72030. O  56070.0         8479.3    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         11000.0 /L  8120.0 /L 5200.0          1624.5    1157.6        786.5
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..    -         ..      183.3       278.4
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..    1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         ..         .              ..       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP NOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..        5.2
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..              ..        4.8
RURAL                              .,         ,,                                  5.3
AVERAGE NUMTBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..              ..        1.8         2.3
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..       25.9        28.3
URBAN                                                  3.0
RURAL                              *'          ''       *-                        8.7        10.3



- 26-                                                      ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
BANCLDGIS  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RZFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BANGLADESH                                               /a
- MOST RlCENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  b     1970 At ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMART:     TOTAL                 47.0         61.0       73.0             59.1        62.9         75.8
FIIALE                26.0         42.0      51.0              38.4       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   8.0         19.0       25.0             19.9        14.4         17.7
FEKALE                 1.0          8.0      11.0              9.9         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  1.0            1.0        *-              1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..        49.0       50.0             38.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                            ..         26.0       24.0             23.5        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCllT)         21.6           ..      23.0             35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSANtD
POPULATION                           ..          0.4        0.4 Li           2.2         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          6.0         ..             14.9        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..               ..         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..       5.0              6.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        ..               ..         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19400.0       24500.0   26200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2        16.5       17.0             21.3        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               87.0        86.0       78.0             62.8        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.3         3.5         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.6      34.4             35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  58.7         55.8      55.3             52.4        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                11.4         11.8      12.1             15.6        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4       1.4              1.3         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3 /k       16.7 /1      ..             18.6        20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5 /k       42.3 E       .-             42.8       45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9           7 7   Li    ..              7.3         5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   17.9 Lk       19.6 L       ..             19.3        16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOYE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      110.0             80.2       88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..           ..       90.0             67.2       71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..               ..      100.8        143.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..       29.0             39.8       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       61.0             50.3       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..       70.0             44.6       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the moat populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betueen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);   if  The 1970-75 growth rate is abnormally low due to the effects of the war of independence and
the mass population movement across the borders during that period.  Presently, the average population
growth rate is estimated at 2.8X per annum; /x Av. 1961-65; /h Registered, not all practicing in the
country;  /i  Govt. establishments only;  /i  1972;  /k  1963-64;  /I  1966-67.
September, 1978



- 27 -
DIPINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS POMe I
fLos: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depende on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Ol Exportere and indicators of accrs, to water and excrete disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty arc
simple population-weighted geometric Mans without the exclusion of extreme velues.
LAND AREA (thousand eq. k.)                                                             Populatton per hospital bed - total, urban, end rural - Population (tota1,
tot ,l -otot surface ares comprising land area  nd inland waters,                        urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimte of agricultural area used temporarily                 available in public and private general end opecialize'f honpitul and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market end kitchen gardens or to                   habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallovw                                                                            *t least one physician.  Establishments providing prinoipally custodia1
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and oedi-
INP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per napita estimates at currnt mrket prices.                   cal centers not permanently staffed by e physician (but by a redical as
calculated by snae conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 bhsis)               sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accormnodatcon and
1960, 197i , and 1977 data.                                                            provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissiono to or diucharges
ENERGY CONSUMPI0ON PER CAPITA - Annual conaumption of commercial energy                   fro, hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gSa and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilogram  of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Average sine of household (persona per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household ronsists of a group of individuals who share living q-artern
Total papuirtion. mid-year (mIllions) - As of July 1; if not available,                  and their Main Meals.   A boarder or lodger may or may not be included In
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                          the household for statistic-l purpoas.e  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                    hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas my effect comparability                  Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                              ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Popalatino density                                                                       dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-penmanent structures and
Per   q. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectrras)                  unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                      Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and royal -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                  Conventional dwellings with electricity  in living quartern ao  percentage
-ni-                                                                                  of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                   Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total. and urban - Compound annual                 Primary echool - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of .11 ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                     at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-ge
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births par thousand of                     different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
nid-yver population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 end                  cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for  oat recent estimate,                   above the official school  ge.
Crude doath rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                        vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupila
Crons reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age  correspondence courses are genecaily
in her normal oeproductive period if she experiences present age-                     excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                        hude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousnds) - Annual number of                        or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family               Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. and secondany - Total students enrolled in
planning program,                                                                     primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of m-rried women) - Percentage of                       spanding levela.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married woman in same age group,                                       a percentage of total adult population aged 15 yearn and over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUHPTION
Index of food production Per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                 Passenger  cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise notor corn
capita annual production of all food coamodities.                                   seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed fro-               v-hinlas.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita             Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less             broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,            receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio aet. wa  in
quantitien used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since nost countries
quiroments were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-              abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
ueights, ago and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers  n coun-
cent for waste at household level,                                                     tries and in yearn when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita snuply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content sf per                Newsapaner circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average cdrcls-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                   tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined an a periodical publi-
above   Requirements for a11 countries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
o min.ima  allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grasa                 be "daily" if it appears at least four tines a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.           Cinema annual attendance per capita Der year - Bosed on the number cf ticket.
Ihese standards ore lower than those of 75 gras of total protein and                   sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinexan and mobile
23 grass of animal protein an an average for the world, proposed by                    units.
FAP in the Third world Fond Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of fond            EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per dy.                                   Total labor force (thousands) - Efonom.iclly active person-   includicg armed
Child (axes 1-4) mertality rate (oar thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Def,ni-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                             tions in v-rious countries arc not comparable.
Penale (percent) - Female labor force as percentage cf total labor forco
REALTE                                                                                Agriculture (percent) - Labor fmrie in farming, forestry, hooting cnd fishing
Life enpecrancy at birth (yearn) - Average namber of years of life                       as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending to 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construcrios, ma-ufactoring cod
and 1975.                                                                              electricity, water end gas an percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Anna.l deaths of infants under                 Participation rote (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
0n0  year of age per thousand live bithts.                                             'emle labor force an percentages of their respective populatioo.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - totl  urb-n, and rural -                  Thns. ore ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting ace-sec
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                   p trctore of tho popolation. ord 1oeg tine trend.
safe water supply (includes toated surface watere or untreated but                  EconomIc dependoncy ratio - Ratic, of population uoder 15 ard 65 ard coo, tc
uncootaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                   the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpoat located not more                   INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                 Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest S
sonable access of thbt hause.  In rural areas reasonable access woald                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and pooront 40 per-ent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                    of households.
spend a diproportionate part of the day in fetching the ftmily's
water needs.                                                                       POvERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to  ocreta disponal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                Estimated absolute poverty income level (11$ par capito) - urban and coral -
ror1-   - Noeber or people (total, urban, and rur-l) served by eacreta                   Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a oloal
disposal an percentages of their re-pective population.  Excreta                       nutritionally adequate diet plus essential nor-food reqoire-roto it cot
disposal may include the collection and disposol, with or without                      affordable.
tr-atnont, of human excrete  and waste-water by water-borne systems                 Estimated relative poverty income level (if) per capita) - urban an0 coral -
cr the use of pit privIes and similar isntallations.                                   Relative poverty income level is that income level lras than one-thIrd
Ppulatioon ec physician - Populatin divided by number of poacticing                     per capIta personal Income of the co.ntry.
physici.ns qualified from a medical school at university level.                     Estimated papulatism below Poverty income level ococon) - urban and rural -
Population Per nursing person - Population divided by number of                          Percent of population (urban and rural) who ae either 'absolute pcor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                      "relative poor" whichever is greater.
--sist-nt nurses.
Econocic and Social Dat Diviison
Econonrc Analysti and Projections Department



- 28 -                                                                         ANNEX S
ECIONOMIC DEVELOPqT DATA
(Amnou.nta in inLilliona of?US.?o11r!ip
Aw. 1967-69    Actual                          Ms e~&d             1960.    1965-     1973-1976 94751778
_______   1972/7   1974/175   1976/'77      %1977 78            195      1970      1978            17-61745l7/8
NAq'.JXAL AccoUNTS             In Constant 1972-1973 Prices & Exchange Rates                hurrage Anrual Growth Bates            As Percent of "1DY
Drs o1mestic Product            6,01       5,833     6,514       7,2557834                                       .         .             98.5   111.8   101.1
nssfrom Terms of Trade(.            89         -      -117        -148                 -88                                               -1.5    -1.8    -1.1
Domj T-,restic Income           6,101    5,833    67,39           ,0                 ,                  .        .         .             0.       0.       0.
mpccc, (inci  NFS)                   879       747       703          506                791            20.6      6.8        0.7            14.4    11.0    1.
Exports   k1 import capacity)    598            369        197         24~3               315            12.3   -14,6        -3.2             9.8      3.1      4.1
Resourcee Gap                         281       378       506          263                                          4.6                                  9      6,1
Consumption Exenditures             5,668    5,817    6,404          6,764              7,521             5.7      3.6       5.2             92.9   100.1    97.1
Investment   1  (ind. stocks)    714            394       499          660                700            13.3      8.8      12.2            12.9       7.8      9.0
N-msestic Savings                     433        16         -6         343                224             4.3    10.0       72.0              68      -.         .
Nati,sa.A Savings                     416        32         10         378                279             8.7    20.5       56.3              7.1      0.2      3,6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                              Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                        .        100       135          227                318               ,       .       22.9               .      16.s    25.5
Tntermediate goods ~3.fuels)         .        176       386         270                 459               ,       .       21.9               .     30.4    34.1I
_itels and related materials
of wthich:  Petrolenys.                      23       155         141                 166              .        ..      48.5              ..      o.      19
Conumpion9EA428                              726        .227                4_06              ,.        .        .4                     42.6    _3?:
'1March.      reta (cif)       547       727    1,402           865              1,349                                12.2                   100.0   100.0
Exports
Primar-y products ~zcl. fuel s1               145       119          220                203                       .        7.0              .      40.9    40.8
F.ieis and related materials
of which: Petroleum
mlanufactured goods                  .        195       239          240                294.                       .       8.s              5. s-.    59.2
Total Merch. Exports (fob)          481       MOT    Th366                              497                                7.9                    100.0   100.0
Tourism and Bnrder Trade
:4:rchandise Trade Indices                       Average 1972-73 - 11
Export Price Inidex                 61       100        133         118                 137              ..       .        6.5
Im,port Price Index                 52       100        215         189                180..                      .       12.5
T,rmas of Trade Index              118        100        62          62                  76             ..        ..       5.6
Exports Voluime Index              146       100         80         115                107..                       .       1.5
ADEADD By SECTOR               Aosrial Data at 1972473 Plrices and Exchange Rates                  ereAnulrotRas                      A:PcntfTtl
Agriculture                      3,542    3,403    3,712          4,020              4,318               .        ..       4.8             59        59       57
industry and Mining                420       412       466          582                642..                      .        9.2              7         7        8
Service                          2,050     1,848    2.146        2j442               2.645               .        ..       7.4            _34        34     315
Total                            6,012    5,663    6,324          7,044              7,605                                 6.1            100       100      100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                                As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                   317       280       469          563                665..                       .      34.2            5.3       7.2      8.5
Current ExpendItures      3~65       36         1           6                  53               ..       .        686.1                    6.4      7.1
Bugtr   avinigs              -48       -64        50           99                112                                              -.           .        .
Other Public Sector                  .         .         .            ..                                 .        .
public Sector Investment           42        23        28           51                 514..                      .      10.3            7.0        3.8      6.6
uTs $ msillion  7-
CUjRRFNT EXPENDITUJRE DETAILS                             Actual                  Estimated       DETAIL ON                             At Av.  1977/78  P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)'              1969/70 1972/73 1974/75 1976/77         19 77/78      PUBICI SECTOR,                       Two-Year Plan   % of Total
Education                                   ..       1      .5 ~V       12.4-       13.0        INVESTI4EsT PPOGRAN                       (1978/79 - 1979/80)
Other Social Services                       .         4.5      3.6      4.2          4.9        Sc,ial Sectors                               287         13.2
Agriculture  antd                                                                               Agriculture                                  600         27.6
other Economic Services            .                5.0    12.5        6.6         7.0        Industry and MEining                         380         17.5
Administration and Defense                   .       70.4    57.1    61.5           61.2        Power                                        314         14.4
Other                        ..        4.6    ~~~~~    ~~~~~       ~~~~12.3    15.3  13.9  Transport and communication;      387         17.8
Total Current Expenditures                          100.0   100.0   100.0          100.0        Other                                        206          9.5
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________ ______________ Total     Expenditures                    2,174       100.0
SEL;ECTED INDICATORS                                  1960-      1965-        1973-               FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year soseapsd data)                1965       1970         1976
Average ICOR                                             .        Tt7Z        0.89                    Public Sector Savings                    557         25.6
Ssport Elasticity                                       .        1.29         1.11                   Programn aid counterpart                  838        38.6
Marginal Domeestic Savings Rate                         .        0.22         0.05                   Foreign Project Aid                       605         27.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                           .        0.35        0.05                   Other (incl. dan. borrowing)              174          8.0
Total Financing                        2,174       100.0
IA-BR FORCE AND                                   Total Labor Force                                     Va-lue Added Per Worker (19  7 2  7 3Prices &, Exc. Rates)
OUTPUIT PE   WORKER                 In millions          I of Total            19 61-73           Tn TJ.S.IDollar       Pecn fAver:ge                19 70 -73
19 60/61  1972/273 196061            1972/73  Growth Rate       19 69/70   19 72/ 73    19 69/70   19 72/73   Growth Rate
AgricultuLre                         16.1        20.5      85        78           2.0                ..          166         ..76
Industry                             1.0          1.8       5         7           5.0                .           229         ..105
Service                              1.8          3.9      10        15           6.7                ..         484          ..222
Total                     ~~~~~        ~~~~18.9  26. 2    100  100      2.                2i48         217         100          100         -4.9
n ot applicable          - nil or negiil
not available          -  less than. half the smnallest unit shown
Rocte:  Figures are on fiscal year basis (July I-June *O)Data prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan.
i1     plan targets.



-29                                                                                          -
WAE  OF PrAfs, rS kD i
5eItI ir. sulln; of 1.S.  do  at eurorct prtew)
Actual                           I               1 _                     n r
12113       MsTD l574/ai"7e 177                                                1974 - 1977
SUMMARY 3ALlNCE OF PAYiDIISS
Dknorto  (innS. UPS)                        515          369           35S          529            588            66                        13.7
nr ,rts (incl. NF)                         -639         -747        -1 402         -957            42          _1,179                        9.8
RedOiiib  Dalance) IX-)                    -124         -378           _            -428                       -1,                           7.4
Intere-t (net)               i
Direct Inveemtent ILone,    18
Worktr-' R.ittorne           I                ..          45              7           66            83
P--t______D __- _____---t                                                           -       
Pfinlte                                      ..it al    t_n,t  482      397          229           380            400                       13.6
public MATI lootS
D.bur-ndents                               ..           76           527           273           411            695                        5.2
- a n..                  7-25          -16           -58            -54
Not                                          7V           3~~~~~3    Dfl            -3~---           RtT.
Nt Disbursenets                        ..? 57 Je 4 .
other B6LT Lna-
Dilb-reinirto                              ..
-RI oco-nlt      
Oct Nh.horseaente                            ..           ..             ......
Capital T.....::-rr  ne...                              -203            334          -44            16                                                 Ata  TMPrid3ait
ChaS.e in Net Raev do ( -                                 .ncteeso)  .. 20  -196     -80           224              25                                 Actual land 4 artd                  E ti9 7ted
cnoea onoarves (end ponind)                  ..          107            263          293           269        Lr ANO DEBr S                                     197      5/I7h    976177    1977/70
Nblin Debt Out. & Oisburoed         228      1,366      1,812      2,065       2,556
GRANT AND L"A  COlltlISYNTS
OrffcinS Smonte &r Grant-like                                           368          338           452           Intereat no Fublin Debt             -         10         21         25          27
R.epyment. er Public Debt           -         25         78         17          51
public MrikT Ionan                                                                                              Inotal Publit  Debt Semrice          -         35         99         42          78
PIbc                                                      -             -            -             -          Other Debt Ser.ino (nt)             ..
TDA                                                     68            150           SO           211          Total Debt Service (net)
Otter wiltilat.er1                                       it 11         87           84            74
Covecoste                                  ..          204           678           200           376        b'Ucden on Erport Earnicgs (S)
Noppliere                                   ..          55             17            2            11
Financial 1rstitetien.                                    -             -            5            13          publin Debt Serrice                *        9 8        22.4        7.9        13.7
Bonde                                                                               T-tl Debt Service                                           ..
Fublin teLs net.                           ..          3             -                             -          TDSoDt.ect Da-t. Tn.-
Total Public5,11  Loane                      ..          338            9.32         341          11
Average Tenre of publio Debt
A.ctul Debt lbtotindieg on June 30, 1970                            Int. as 3 Prior Year D3&            ..       2.0         1.5        1.4         1.3
SITERSAL lES                                      Dimbureed Oly                  Perent                           Anort. as % Prior Yer DO&D          *-       5.0         5.7        0.9         2.5
Wokrld irrlcR
19A                                                    554                       21.7                         I5RD Debt Out. & Dioburoed
Othlr bitilateral                                       64                        2.5                           r  ac S NUblin Debt SAD              -       4.0         3.0        2.7         2.2
3octrcnsnc.n                                        1,746                       68.4                              ao S FPblin Debt Service          -         -         1.6        75          4.4
rIIDr.n lccI 1ll                                                                 4.3
0 nrnccai tcInbvrtio.ann                               26                        1.0                         IDA Debt Out. & Dinburseod
So =n Public                                 h'LLT Debt    100.0:' no S Publi. Debt O0D                                                            7.1     18.7         21.0      2 .7 7      71.7
p.blr: 015bin-. Debt                                                                                                   Publin Debt Service                  2.3         2.0        7.5        4.9
Total public  &L  Deb. t                             2356                       100.0
Other MKLT Debtn
Short-terr Debt (dieb. .,ly)
not pplicable                                                       e   tff etioate
not aailable                                                        -  oil or nrgligible
not ov-ilable separately                                           --  lea. thcn half the
but ineluded in total                                                  *a_11t unit hboe,n                                                                                                r 1978



_ 30 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1979)
US$ Million
Amount
(net of cancellations
Loan or                                                      and exchange adjustments)
Credit                                                                          Un-
Number  Year   Borrower             Purpose                  Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and eight credits fully disbursed                   54.9    329.1         -
339    1972   Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                   25.0       2.5
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                       13.0       1.0
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                               14.0       1.9
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                    7.3        .3
367    1973   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply
(replaces Credit No.
42-PAK of 1963)                         7.0        .1
368    1973   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply and
Sewerage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                  13.2         -
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                  21.0       4.3
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                    25.0       5.6
409    1973   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance                         4.0        .1
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                                 7.5       5.1
424    1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                          8.7       1.1
487    1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications                   20.0      13.1
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                         33.0       7.2
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                  15.0      11.7
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                          27.0      23.7



- 31 -
ANNEX II
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million
Amount    -
(net of cancellations
Loan or                                                     and exchange adjustments)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA   disbursed
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.0      14.9
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training            12.0      10.5
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                     7.5       6.0
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                          16.0      14.5
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                     25.0      14.4
676    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program V                          75.0       2.8
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                          16.0      16.0
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                          21.0      19.9
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research                     10.0       9.9
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                   5.0      4.4
752    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                         75.0      20.4
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                       21.0      19.4
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                       25.0      25.0
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                     7.0       7.0
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                       6.0       6.0
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control                 19.0      19.0 /b
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                        75.0      62.1
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                   10.0      10.0
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries             _         6.0       6.0 /b
Total,                                                      54.9  1,023.3    365.9
of which has been repaid                                   0         0.4      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.9  1,022.9
Total undisbursed                                            0       365.9    365.9
/a   Balance $9,224.0
lb   Not effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by December 1979, about four years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System) have
been completed for some time. Parts D and E (Primary and Feeder Roads) have
been substantially completed except before the remainder of the road can be
constructed. Work on the completion of Part B and C (Telecommunications and
Cyclone Shelters) appears to be proceeding satisfactorily. A request for an
extensiin of the Closing Date is currently under consideration.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date:  January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is expected to be completed by late 1979, three years
behind schedule. Delays have been due to major flooding, labor problems,
shortages of materials, equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the embankment
as a result of rapid river erosion during the construction phase. While
problems remain, substantial progress has been made both in physical construc-
tion and agricultural development. The main regulator is operational and major
agricultural development has started.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: September 28, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Nearly 3000 wells have now been drilled, and verticality
problems have already been corrected by the contractors. Pumphouse construc-
tion and engine/pump installation is proceeding satisfactorily. Agricultural
development for 2400 wells started in the winter 1978/1979. Project audit
for 1975/1976 has been received while audit for 1976/1977 is being awaited.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Arrangements for extending consultant's services have been agreed. A request
is currently under consideration for an extension of the closing date to permit
the financing of, inter alia, distribution channels in order to increase the
effectiveness of the project. Pending the outcome of this review, the Closing
Date has been initially extended to 9/28/79.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
There has been an improving trend in project implementation during
the past two years. Seed sales and quality are good. Contract growers'
interest is high. Staff morale has also improved considerably. Civil works
are underway but are being delayed by shortages of local funds. Machinery
for seed processing has been ordered. Tender documents for the final list
of machinery and equipment are undergoing final revision after IDA comments.
Staff housing is about 80% complete. On the other hand, vacancies still exist
in the staff to supervise contract growers. With fifteen trainees presently
being trained, most of the planned overseas staff training programs are well
underway.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and is expected
to be completed on schedule. The problems delaying procurement of 60 primary
and 2,500 secondary pumps have been resolved and it is expected that some 25
primary pumps will be installed during the current boro season. A target
area of 24,000 acres of irrigation for the present dry season using some
608 secondary pumps is to be attempted.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. After a period of good progress,
project civil works have again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka.
If adequate additional funds are alloted, the project could still be completed
on schedule.



34 _
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of June 3, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project was designed as a, pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on
August 3, 1976.  Initially, despite some teething problems, the project was
progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses
became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation the various ministries and agencies
involved; (ii) lack of effective organization ineffective supervision of
the project by the implementing agency, the Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the cooperative system (complex
regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate training of project personnel;
and (v) conflicting government policies in the field of rural credit. In
November/December 1977, IDA, in association with IRDP, undertook a compre-
hensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire, setting out an action
program to overcome these problems, was presented to the Government in
December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
projects subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating com-
mittee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improve coopera-
tion. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as rural
works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries have, so far,
yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of farm inputs farm equipment.
A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit Agreement to finance
incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of incremental credit for
fertilizer.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bids for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells have been
received and are being reviewed by the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation's Tender Committee. A consultant for workshop management has
been hired and the preparation of tender documents for workshop tools and
machinery is at an advanced stage. Construction of 3 out of the 5 project
zonal workshops has been completed. Thana irrigation maps are yet to be
reviewed by consultants.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Delays occurred initially in obtaining Government approval of the
project budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for
hiring the engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor
who will construct the Feni Regulator. The contractor, with the Bangladesh
Water Development Board (BWDB) approval, has signed in August 1978, a contract
with the Implementation Assistance Team to participate and assist in construc-
tion work. A BWDB engineer has been appointed as Project Manager and has set
up office in Feni township. The Contractor has started construction site
development and assembly of staff.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
The project is making good progress since it became effective
January 6, 1978. Pre-qualification of contractors for the construction of
training unit at Bogra and Santahar has been advertised while detailed draw-
ings and cost estimates have been submitted and forwarded to IDA for review.
Procurement of essential project vehicles and equipment is progressing
satisfactorily. Suitable salary scales are now approved and DEM has been
requested to proceed immediately with filling of posts for crop production
specialists and district training officers. In the case of Project Imple-
mentation Unit/Sub-Unit (PIU/PISI), gazetted officers have been appointed
in late September 1978; selection of senior staff (Class III and IV) has
been completed but appointment awaits Government's clearance. On agricul-
tural extension, a consultant has been appointed to review unification of
extension services. Village Extension Assistants (VEAs) have already been
relieved of extension duties. The Ministry of Agricultural has also re-
quested the Planning Commission to increase the taka allocation of the
project to Taka 65 million.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project; US$21 Million of February 8, 1978; Effective
Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Project progress is generally satisfactory. The project organiza-
tion appears to be succeeding in generating enthusiasm among farmers and Jute
Farmers Associations are becoming effective. The value of credit in cash and
kind has increased substantially, and repayments are progressing satisfactorily.
The project technological package is reported to be signficantly increasing per
acre yields.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25 Million of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Effectiveness was delayed by almost three months due to delays in
Government approval of the project budget. However, work on site selection,



36
ANNEX II
land acquisition, and preparation of tender documents has been proceeding
satisfactorily and physical progress of the project is not expected to be
effected by this delay.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project;  US$6 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed by two months, due to delays in approval
of the project budget. Meanwhile contracts with architects for design of
facilities have been signed, and technical working groups established respon-
sible for drawing up research programs in specific fields.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project; US$6 million of April 3, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation
work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
However, based on the soil analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site was undertaken to protect the plant
against earthquake risks.   Currently the project is about 32 months behind
schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial slow
progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning for
construction. Process engineering and procurement have progressed substan-
tially and the Project is now in the construction phase. The soil compaction
work has been completed and work is progressing on the critical compensatory
foundation works of the Project. Revised estimates indicate that due to the
need for additional site work, the delays and the currency fluctuations, costs
will be substantially higher than lender funds currently available. Arrange-
ments are being discussed among the Government and the various cofinanciers
to raise the additional funds required to complete the Project. The fertilizer
company has terminated the contract of the consultants who had been providing
management assistance, and has hired a new firm to provide assistance during
the construction phase. The company is currently negotiating arrangements for
provision of assistance during the operations phase.



_ 37 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of February 28, 1979, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has sub-
mitted 96 subprojects for IDA approval. Of these, 93 have been approved and
three have been held pending clarification by BSB of queries raised during
IDA reviews. As of February 28, 1979 disbursements (including QAR's) were
US$5.2 million.
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
As of February 28, 1979, disbursements were US$70.0 million. The
credits Closing Date has been extended by three months to enable GOB process
reimbursement from IDA under Procedure Case I.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program; US$75 Million of November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
As of February 28, 1979 disbursements (including QAR's) were
US$38.5 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project; US$7 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1983
Progress has started in training commercial bank staff, distributing
circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures, and adver-
tising the availability of funds for small industry loans. Staff of the Small
and Cottage Industries Corporation have been assigned to begin preparation of
subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22,; 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Progress on the Agricultural University component of the project
is about 75% complete but 30 months behind schedule. The academic complex
facilities and staff housing are now virtually completed. About half of
the hostels will be completed in December 1979 and the remainder by June
1980. The auditorium, gympnasium and stadium are scheduled to be completed



- 38 -
ANNEX II
by October 1979, two months before the Closing Date. A number of new pro-
grams intended to improve the practical skills of students and increase
their involvement in research and extension have been introduced. Civil Works
for The Technical Education component, although 30 months behind schedule is
practically complete. Procurement of equipment is only 60% complete because
of the time-consuming procedures of the Supplies Directorate. Efforts to
revise curricula and improve quality of teaching staff are being made.
However, action has yet to be taken to complete the facilities at Joydeppur
intended to be used for the training of technical teachers.  (Construction
of this facility is not part of the project).
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months ahead of sched-
ule but has slowed recently due to shortage of local funds. Completion is
about 60% on weighted average. Tenders for instructional equipment were
invited in mid-December. Training of teachers for the Agricultural Train-
ing Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by a recent transfer of instructors
to the extension staff to benefit from a recent upgrading of positions, which
was not extended to the ATI staff. Little progress has been made on the
recruitment of technical assistance experts, the development of revised
curriculum, or the in-service training of extension staff.
Population
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Some progress has
been made in project implementation. Tenders have been received for all
construction packages except the Family Welfare Visitors' Training School
in Khulna and Faridpur. Scrutiny of bids received for four tenders are
underway. Recruitment of staff training teams is under progress while local
consultants have started working with Project Finance Cell to strengthen
central accounting system. Government is considering implementing manage-
ment study recommendation for strengthening district level organization. Over
60 out of 90 medical doctors deputed from the Health Division of the Ministry
of Health and Family Planning to Population Division and Family Planning
Division (PCFD) have joined. Deputation of another 100 doctors is expected
shortly. On the other hand, proposals to strengthen the Building, Planning
and Design Unit (BPDU) are still pending with the Health Division while pro-
gress on service statistic system has been discouraging.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
There are two major elements of the project which are not yet com-
pleted, these being construction of the new Roads and Highways Directorate
(RHD) headquarters building and paving of the Feni bypass. Progress on the
RHD building is satisfactory, and appropriate steps are being taken to
remedy constructional deficiencies previously noted. Progress on the Feni
bypass paving has improved, and the contractor should complete before the
closing date of the Credit on December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the Original Credit
has been substantially completed. The two lighterage tankers provided under
the Supplementary Credit have been operating since January 1978, transfering
crude oil from the mother tanker, "Banglar Noor", to the ERL refinery at
Chittagong. However, Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC) has experienced
some problems in maintaining the tankers' cargo pumps and manufacturers'
service engineers are now in Chittagong. IDA has agreed to finance under
the credit additional Technical Assistance to improve tanker operation and
maintenance. There appears to have been a significant improvement in the
oil transfer operating over the past few months.
Cr. No 735     Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. The selection of con-
sultants required for the execution of the project has proceeded very slowly.
However, contracts with two consulting firms have now been signed, and work on
selection of additional required consultants is underway.



_ 40 _
ANNEX II
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems have been
commissioned. The fourth microwave system, equipment for which was ordered
together with the microwave systems under Credit 487-BD, is expected to be
commissioned by June 1979, completing the project four years behind schedule.
The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
After initial delays, action has been taken on the procurement of
all items except the national trunk automatic exchanges (TAXs) and the inter-
national telephone exchange. Technical specifications prepared by the T&T
and assist in tender evaluation and subsequent supervision of their
installation. Delay in procurement of the exchanges is likely to delay
project completion until June 1981, two years behind the original estimate.
Physical progress of other works although behind schedule has begun to
improve. The T&T Board was established in July 1976 but little progress
has been achieved in meeting project institution building goals including
transfer to the Board of responsibility for its accounts (currently main-
tained by Comptroller and Auditor General) and introduction of a commercial
accounting system within the Board. The Rules and Regulations defining the
Boards power have not yet been issued leaving the Board with less autonomy
than the prior Director General of the Telephone and Telegraph Department.
However a new ordinance covering the T&T Board has recently been issued and
preparation of revised rules and regulations for the Board is underway.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Credit funds were almost fully committed. However, failure of the
Government and consultants to reach agreement on the staffing of a planning
assistance project has resulted in the release of about US$1.0 million of
additional funds for commitment.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 million; Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982



-41 -
ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
GREATER KHULNA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
January 1978 to January 1979
(b) Agency which prepared project:
BPDB
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
March 1978
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
July 1978
(e) Departure of Appraisal mission:
February 1979
(f) Completion of negotiations:
May 16, 1979
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) Bulk tariffs to rural consumers are to be set so
as to cover BPDB's full cost at the point of supply
plus an adequate rate of return (para 43);
(b) GOB is required to establish a long-range power
development plan (para 46);



- 42 -
ANNEX III
(c) BPDB is required to achieve an operating ratio of
at least 135% in FY80, at least 120% in FY81 and at
least 100% in FY82 and a reasonable rate of return
on assets thereafter (para 64):
(d) Additional conditions of effectiveness are:
(i) Selection of engineering consultants (para 52);
(ii) GOB approval of the Project Proforma (para 53);
(iii) Signing of the OPEC Special Fund Agreement
(para 54):
(iv) Conclusion of the onlending arrangement between
GOB and BPDB (para 55);
(v) Effective implementation of a tariff increase
of 38% (para 63).



