CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 934 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 18, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 934 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 1979, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of part of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as herein-
after provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the OPEC Special
Fund a loan (hereinafter called the OPEC Special Fund Loan) in an
amount of US$8,500,000 equivalent to assist in financing the
Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (herein-
after called the OPEC Special Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the OPEC Special Fund; and
(C) the Project will be carried out by the Bangladesh Power
Development Board (hereinafter called BPDB) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to BPDB the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
BPDB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and BPDB of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement; and
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BPDB pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty eight million dollars ($28,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions set forth or referred to in
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07 The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1989, and ending
March 15, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitat.on or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause BPDB to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable BPDB to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) Without in any way limiting the generality of paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall permit BPDB to adjust electricity
tariffs in a timely manner so as to enable it to perform in
accordance with the provisions of Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of
the Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
BPDB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and BPDB under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association, which shall include, inter alia,


﻿repayment over 25 years (including 5 years grace), interest at a
rate of 5% per annum, and the foreign exchange risk to be borne
by BPDB.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association for its review, not later than June 30, 1980, a
draft of the long-range power development plan based on least cost
solutions and the availability of local fuel resources and there-
after review annually in consultation with the Association,
a long-range power development plan for the territory of the
Borrower, such plan and the pertinent parts thereof to be included
in the Borrower's Five-Year Plan 1981-1985.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BPDB or for the suspension of its operations unless
arrangements acceptable to the Association shall have been made to
replace BPDB by an organization which will assume and perform all
the obligations of BPDB under the Project Agreement upon said
dissolution, disestablishment or suspension; and
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the OPEC Special Fund Loan made to
the Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement   providing there-
for, or


﻿-5-
(B) such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof namely, any event specified in paragraphs
(a) or (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions that:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and BPDB;
(b) the electricity tariff increase averaging at least
38% shall be in effect;
(c) the engineering consultants referred to in Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement shall have been selected and noti-
fied of such selection;
(d) che OPEC Special Fund Loan Agreement shall have been
signed; and
(e) the Project Proforma shall have been approved by the
Borrower.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General


﻿-6-
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BPDB, and is legally binding upon BPDB in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and BPDB and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and BPDB in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date September 18, 1979 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.02 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
BAHIRSAMPAD
Dacca


﻿-7-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ Abidur Rahman
Authorized Repiesentative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  4,000,000          90%
(2) Equipment, vehicles         15,200,000
and spare parts
(a) imported                                   54% of foreign
directly                                  expenditures
(b) locally                                    100% of local
manufactured                              expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) locally                                    80% of local
procured                                  expenditures
(3) Installation                 3,000,000          100%
of equipment
(4) Training                     1,200,000          100%
(5) Engineering,                 1,200,000          100%
consultants'
services
(6) Local freight                2,000,000          100%
(7) Unallocated                  1,400,000
TOTAL       28,000,000


﻿2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with


﻿- 10 -
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Improvement and development of urban power distribution
networks in the towns of Khulna, Bagerhat, Mangla Port and
Satkhira in Khulna District involving approximately 33,000
new customer connections and 20,000 rehabilitated connec-
tions, including the provision of:
1.   Three transformers of 132/33 kV and about 625 medium-
to-low voltage pole mounted transformers.
2.   Eight substations of 33/11 kV.
3.   About 780 km medium and low voltage overhead lines
and underground cables, and rehabilitation of 320 km of
medium and low voltage lines.
4.   Service vehicles and communication equipment.
5.   Operational buildings and staff housing.
6.   Engineering consultants' services.
Part B:
Strengthening BPDB's training capabilities by providing,
training facilities and tea hers for BPDB's training center
at Khulna, and related equirment and supplies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


