CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 934 BD
Project Agreement
(Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
Dated June 18, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 934 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD (hereinafter called BPDB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of Bangladesh (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty eight million dollars
($28,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BPDB
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BPDB, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Ag-leement will be made available
to BPDB on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BPDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BPDB shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause


﻿-2-
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist BPDB in the engineering
design and supervision of Project execution, BPDB shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) BPDB undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by BPDB to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   BPDB shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) BPDB shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) BPDB: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures


﻿-3-
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between BPDB and the
Association, BPDB shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, BPDB and the Association
of their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) BPDB shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of BPDB and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. BPDB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreem.nt. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BPDB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) BPDB shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   BPDB shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by BPDB of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. BPDP shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed, all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the carrying
out of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BPDB
Section 3.01. BPDB shall at all times manage its affairs,
improve its financial position, plan its future expansion and


﻿-4-
carry on its operations, alP in accordance with sound engineering,
administrative, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. (a) ;PDB shall at all times operate and main-
tain its plants, facilities, equipment and other property, and
promptly as required make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and public utility
practices.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall other-
wise agree, BPDB shall not take any steps, includiing disposing of
any major plant or installation which would significantly or
adversely affect its operations or financial position.
Section 3.03. BPDB shall carry out a program of actions
satisfactory to the Association to achieve the targets included in
Sections 4.03 (a) and 4.04 (a) of this Agreement. Such program
shall take into all account all aspects of BPDB's administration
and operations, and shall include the implementation of a program
of loss reduction, improved billing and collection, a generation
plant maintenance plan and a personnel development plan, as well
as the timely introduction of appropriate tariff adjustments.
Section 3.04. BPDB shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BPDB shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. BPDB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year commencing with
fiscal year 1982, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by


﻿-5-
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of BPDB and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) BPDB shall take all action necessary to
achieve an operating ratio of at least 135 per cent in fiscal
year 1980, at least 120 per cent in 1981, and at least 100 per
cent in 1982.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) above, operating
ratio shall mean the percentage derived, in each fiscal year, from
dividing (i) all administrative and operating expenses (including
maintenance and adequate provision for depreciation and bad
debt), taxes, and interest and other charges on debt by (ii) all
revenues from sales of electricity and other revenues connected
with the normal business of selling electricity and properly
chargeable to revenue account.
Section 4.04. (a) BPDB shall take all action necessary on
its part to ensure that, with effect from fiscal year 1983,
tariffs are set at levels that will provide revenues sufficient
to: (i) cover its administrative and operating expenses (including
maintenance and adequate provision for depreciation), and taxes
and other payments to the Borrower, if any; and (ii) produce an
annual rate of return on BPDB's currently valued net fixed assets
in operation sufficient to cover all interest payments and other
charges on debt, adequate provision for bad debts, and repayment
of debt when due as far as such repayment exceeds depreciation,
and to finance a reasonable portion of BPDB's investment program.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon the fore-
going, BPDB shall take all action necessary on its part to ensure
that tariffs for the supply of electricity to the Rural Electri-
fication Board and the Palli Bidyut Samity (Rural Cooperatives)
are set at levels that will provide revenues sufficient to: (i)
cover BPDB's administrative and operating expenses (including
maintenance and adequate provision for depreciation) and taxes, if
any, associated with BPDB's assets and operations required to
provide such electricity supply; and (ii) produce an annual rate
of return on BPDB's currently valued net fixed assets in operation
required to provide such electricity supply at least equivalent to
the annual rate of return stipulated in paragraph (a) above.


﻿-6-
(c) For the purpose of paragraphs (a) and (b) above:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the operating income for the relevant
year to the average value of BPDB's currently
valued net fixed assets in operation for the
same year;
(ii) the term "operating income" shall mean the differ-
ence between (A) revenues from sales of electricity
and (B) administrative and operating expenses
including maintenance, adequate provision for
depreciation and taxes and other payments to
the Borrower, if any;
(iii) the term "currently valued net fixed assets in
operation" shall mean the average between the gross
fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at
the end of any fiscal year less the amount of
accumulated depreciation and accumulated capital
contributions by BPDB's customers, revalued
annually on the basis of a method acceptable to the
Borrower, the Association, and BPDB.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of BPDB thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement;
or
(ii) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph


﻿-7-
(a) (i) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
BPDB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BPDB:
Bangladesh Power Development Board
WAPDA Building
Motijheel Commercial Area
Dacca
Bangladesh
Cable address:                      Telex:
POWER BOARD                         BPDB DAC 617
Dacca


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BPDB may be taken or executed by the
Chairman or such other person or persons as the Chairman shall
designate in writing, and BPDB shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
By Is/ Abidur Rahman
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for goods shall be grouped, wherever feasible,
in order to encourage international competitive bidding.
3.   Items costing less than $20,000 equivalent, up to an aggre-
gate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be purchased
through international shopping on the basis of at least three
price quotations.
4.   (a)  Contracts for civil works shall be let on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to the Association;
(b) In order to assist BPDB in carrying out the civil
works under the Project, BPDB shall employ contractors whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to BPDB and the Association.
5.   Installation of lines, pole-mounted transformers and asso-
ciated equipment may be carried out by force account.
6.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, BPDB shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as
the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods


﻿- 10 -
in question. BPDB shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
7.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to BPDB of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of BPDB and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Bangladesh equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes


﻿- 11 -
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, BPDB shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, BPDB
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the


﻿- 12 -
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform BPDB and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after 'its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, BPDB shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform BPDB and state
the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 10% of the original price, BPDB shall inform the Associa-
tion of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform BPDB and state the reasons
for its determination.


