Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Repor No. 13818
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(CREDIT 1498-GH)
DECEMBER 29, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
West Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit        =     Cedi (0Z)
US$1                 =     35 Cedis
(May 1984)
US$1                 =     900 Cedis
(December 1993)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIRAD-CP    Centre de Cooperation Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour
Developpement - Cooperative Program
FAO/WB-CP  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
ffb          Fresh fruit bunch
GOPDC        Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation
ha           Hectare
IMC          Interim Management Committee
IRHO         Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux
MOFA         Ministry of Food and Agriculture
mt           Metric Ton
OP I         Oil Palm Development Project Phase I
OP 2         Oil Palm Development Project Phase 11
OPRI         Oil Palm Research Institute (formerly OPRC)



FOR OFnlCLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Ghana
Oil Palm Development Project - Phase II (Credit 1498-GH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Ghana-Oil Palm Development Project -
Phase II (Credit 1498-GH) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No comments were received
from the Borrower.
The project financed the second phase of development of an oil palm nucleus estate.
The principal elements of this phase were smallholder outgrower plantings and an expansion of the oil
palm mill. Appraisal targets were achieved or exceeded. For example, 5,300 hectares of smallholder
managed palms were planted, compared to an initial target of 2,500 hectares. Yields have been above
projections and the performance of the mill has been very high. The enterprise was managed from
Phase I by an international management agency. Over the life of the project the international staff
was progressively replaced by Ghanaians. The enterprise is financially profitable and is currently
being privatized. Institutional development is judged to have been substantial and sustainability is
likely.
The PCR re-estimates the ERR at 21 percent, compared with an appraisal estimate of
12.3 percent. However, given that the real value of palm oil fell by 50 percent over the project
period, it is not clear that the high level of physical performance was enough to offset the adverse
shift in prices, especially since some aspects of production do not appear to have been fully costed.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory.
Apart from the economic analysis, the completion report provides an adequate account of
project implementation. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document hu a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. lt contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(CREDIT 1498-GH)
Table of Contents
Page No
Preface   .        ...................................................    i
Evaluation Summary ............................................ iii
Part I:   PROJECT  REVIEW   FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   .................   1
Project Identity . .............................................. 1
Background . ................................................ 1
Project Objectives and Description               .................................   2
Project Design and Organization    ...................................   2
Project Implementation ..........................................   3
Project Results .             .............................................. 9
Project Sustainability  ..........................................    11
Bank Performance   ...........................................    12
Borrower Performance    ........................................    12
Project Relationship   ..........................................    12
Consulting Services    ..........................................    13
Project Documentation and Data    ..................................    13
Part II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ... ..... 14
PART  III:  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION    ..........................   15
Table 1: IDA  Credit/Loan Relevant to the Project  .......................    16
Table 2:  Planned, Revised and Actual Dates of Project Timetable  ..............   17
Table 3:  Cumulative and Actual Disbursements  .........................   18
Table 4:  Planned and Actual Completion Dates of Components   ...............   19
Table 5:  Project Cost  .........................................    20
Table 6:  Project Financing  ......................................    21
Table 7:  Allocation of Credit Proceeds   ..............................   22
Table 8:  Direct Benefits   .......................................    23
Table 9:  Compliance with Credit Covenants  ...........................   25
Table 10: Staff Inputs              ...................                    ......................    27
Table 11: Missions             ....................                     .......................    28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Contents
ANNEXES:
Annex 1: GOPDC - Profit and Loss Statement  .........................  29
Annex 2: GOPDC Sources and Application of Funds  .....................  30
Annex 3: GOPDC Balance Sheet .........              .........................  31
Annex 4A: Economic Rate of Return .........           .......................  32
Annex 4B: Economic Millgate Price of Palm Oil and Palm Kernels ....        .........  35
Annex 4C: Production of ffb, Palm Oil and Palm Kernels ...................  38



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(CREDIT 1498-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Oil Palm Phase II Project in
Ghana, for which a Credit (Cr. 1498-GH) in the amount of SDR 23.5 million (US $25
million at the time of appraisal) was approved on June 12, 1984, and signed on June 22,
1984. The Credit closed on December 31, 1993, after two extensions totalling three years
from the original closing date. It was almost fully disbursed on May 10, 1994, the date of
the last disbursement, and SDR 1.48 million was canceled.
This PCR was prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division of the Western Africa
Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III).
T he PCR was prepared by Ms. Patience Mensah and is based, inte "i, on the
Report and Recommendation of the President; the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development
Credit and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and
Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and interviews with Bank staff involved with the
project.
A copy of the draft PCR was sent to the Government of Ghana on May 13, 1994 and
no comments were received.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(CREDIT 1498-GH)
PROJECT EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Obiectives
1.    The objectives of the project (para. 6 main report) were to continue the Bank's
involvement in the agricultural sector including policy areas, strategy for development,
production of improved planting material and improved cultivation technology; diversification
away from cocoa, import substitution; and continued development of investments made in the
Oil Palm Development Project Phase 1 (Cr. 531-GH). More specifically the project would
assist in the development of new outgrower plantings of oil palm and the expansion of oil
palm milling capacity.
B. Implementation Experience
1.    Overall project implementation was satisfactory. The project period was extended
twice, once for one year, then for two years, to complete project activities (para. 12).
GOPDC, a wholly-owned government liability company, was responsible for implementation.
The project established new outgrower plantings under a loan scheme where repayments are
recovered from crop sale revenues payable by GOPDC to outgrowers. It also consolidated
developments made in the Phase I project consisting of a nucleus plantation and
smallholder/outgrower plantings. Civil works included construction of buildings (workers'
houses, offices, workshop); construction and maintenance of feeder roads; and extension of
the central mill's capacity from 15 ton ffb/hr to 30 ton ffb/hr. The mill processed fruits from
the nucleus estate, smallholder/outgrower holdings and private/state farms.
2.    The main financial constraint encountered was a two-year delay in the government
providing US$1.3 million equivalent of its equity contribution to GOPDC. However,
GOPDC has operated at a profit during project implementation. Over-dependence on a single
buyer at the initial stage caused problems of cash flow and poor product off-take especially
during peak supply periods. This was overcome through diversification of sales channels and
some expansion of storage facilities.
3.    Management was on the whole satisfactory and was provided under a management
contract with an internationally experienced firm whose staff worked with local counterparts,
who took over full management responsibility in the last year of the project (para. 20). There
was over-recruitment of workers at the beginning and productivity was low, but excess labor
was successfully reduced in size and productivity increased. Harmony in labor-management
was not always attained and the high degree of politicization of the labor movement in



iv
Ghana encouraged a confrontational attitude. There were two serious cases of industrial
action which led to disruption of project activities for several weeks.
4.     The project provided support for research in breeding and production of improved
seedlings of oil palm, and for investigation into Cape St. Paul's Wilt disease of coconut.
Both senior and middle level staff benefitted from on-the-job as well as formal training.
Management of the Oil Palm Research Institute (OPRI; formerly Oil Palm Research Center)
was unsatisfactory.
C.  Results
5.     The project was successful in completing the establishment of a nucleus plantation,
and extending (doubling) the capacity of a central oil mill linked to smallholder/outgrower
holdings. New plantings by outgrowers were 5,283 ha, involving 2,673 smallholder farm
families. At the time of PCR preparation, annual production was 16,700 tons palm oil and
3,040 tons kernel (para. 38). The PCR estimates oil palm fruit production at full
development of Phase I and II at 91,000 tons, or about 129 percent of the SAR estimate
(Table 8). A portion of the outgrower program is receiving follow-on financing under the
Agricultural Diversification Project (Cr. 2180-GH, FY91).
6.     The economic rate of return is 21 percent (Annex 4A). Debt recovery from
outgrowers and smallholders has been behind schedule, with year-to-year recovery of
annuities fluctuating from 48 percent to 98 percent.
D.  Sustainability
7.     The project is financially, institutionally and technically sustainable. It has been able
to successfully integrate improved technology practices into local farmers' oil palm
cultivation. GOPDC is capable of prudential management of its finances and continuing
profitable operation. Local managerial and technical capacity has been built to efficiently
utilize the land, capital and human resources available for a viable commercial operation. In
fact, the government has put GOPDC up for sale to the private sector, and three international
firms have submitted proposals to buy it. The private business interest is indicative that the
company will continue to be operated efficiently in the future should the divestiture succeed.
It is not certain how the smallholder/outgrower component would be treated in the event of
divestiture, but it is clear that the nucleus plantation and mill would depend on
smallholder/outgrower production to maintain profitability.
E.  Lessons Learnt
8.     The project has shown that establishing a nucleus plantation linked to outgrower
holdings is viable under the conditions of: (i) a simple project design; (ii) autonomy to
operate as a business entity; (iii) efficient and competent management; and (iv) provision of
adequate amounts of local counterpart funds. Technical assistance can be used for the
successful training of local counterpart staff with the cooperation of the TA provider and close
monitoring by the recipient.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(CREDIT 1498-GH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Project Name:       Oil Palm Development Project - Phase II
Credit Number:      1498-GH
Credit Amount:      SDR 23.5 million (US$25 million)
RVP Unit:           Western Africa Department (AF4)
Country:            Ghana
Sector:             Agriculture
B. Back_round
1.    Ghana experienced negative growth in the 1970s for reasons including inappropriate
macro-economic policies, poor management and adverse external factors. The agricultural
sector which was contributing about 50 percent of GDP and employed 51 percent of the labor
force was neglected, resulting in a downturn in production of food and export crops. Cocoa,
the leading export crop, experienced a progressive decline due to high net taxation and poor
producer price incentives.
2.    The Bank's earlier involvement in the agricultural sector was to reverse the decline of
the cocoa and timber subsectors and assist the country in efforts to increase the production of
food and raw materials for agro-industries. Total lending from 1969 to 1983 amounted to
US$105.5 million, comprising eight projects, amongst which was the Oil Palm Development
Project Phase 1 (Credit 531-GH) for US$13.6 million for developing 4,000 ha of nucleus
plantation and 1,200 ha outgrower plantings and constructing a 10 ton/hr palm oil mill and
associated infrastructure. Most of these projects were largely unsuccessful due to shortages of
both foreign exchange and local funds, poor management and slow bureaucratic processes.
However, the Phase I Oil Palm Development Project (OPI) achieved its planting targets,
institutional, financial and economic objectives.
3.     OPI was appropriate considering long-term projections of excess demand for palm
oil over Ghana's domestic production. This was not only a hedge against future shortages of
palm oil but also offered an opportunity for import substitution in view of the serious shortage
of foreign exchange at that time.
4.    Preparatory work on a second phase project (OP2) was initiated in anticipation of the
end of OPI, which was due to close on June 30, 1984. Preparation was carried out by
FAO/CP staff together with an IDA mission in October 1980. The project was appraised in
April 1981 and the draft Staff Appraisal Report (Green Cover) was completed in January



2
1982. Further processing of the financing proposal was suspended temporarily. The
submission of the loan package to the Loan Committee was deferred pending the new
government, which came into power in December 1981, reaching agreement with the IMF
and the Bank on macro-economic policy reforms.
5.    The project was re-appraised in October 1983 after the government reached agreement
with IMF and the Bank and announced the reforms.
C. Project Objectives and Description
6.    The objectives of the project were to continue the Bank's involvement in the
agricultural sector, including policy areas, strategy for development, production of improved
planting material and improved cultivation technology. Continuation of improvement in the
developments started in OPI would provide a diversified production base that had been
dominated by cocoa, save foreign exchange through import substitution of edible oil, and
increase foreign exchange earnings from exports of palm kernel.
7.    Project components as described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) No. 3724-GH
comprised:
(a)   the development of 2,500 ha of new outgrower plantings;
(b)   the expansion of the oil mill capacity from 15 ton ffb/hr to 25 ton ffb/hr;
(c)    continuation of international management expertise;
(d)    consolidation of Phase I development of nucleus estate and
smallholders/outgrowers by providing vehicles, equipment, housing, and
inputs for plantings not yet in bearing;
(e)    practical training of Ghanaians in technical and management aspects of the
project, and provision of consultants' services for special and general studies
and training; and
(f)   support for OPRI's research program through provision of vehicles,
equipment, materials, overseas training and consultant's assistance for OPRI.
D. Project Design and Organization
8.     The OP2, which was to be implemented over a six-year period, was designed on the
model of a government-owned nucleus plantation with a central crop processing facility linked
to smallholder/outgrowers through credit and crop purchase arrangements. Nucleus plantation
and smallholder/outgrower plantings established earlier under OPI would be brought to
maturity and the area under outgrowers would be expanded with new plantings. A
smallholder/outgrower oil palm fruit collection system for centralized milling would be set up,
and loan repayments would be deducted from proceeds payable to the
smallholders/outgrowers. Increased production from earlier plantings together with harvests



3
from the additional outgrower plantings in this phase would allow expansion of existing oil
mill capacity from 15 ton ffb/hr to 25 ton ffb/hr.
9.    Project concept and design were appropriately timed to consolidate developments
made in OPI where 5,145 ha of oil palms were planted and a 15 ton/hour palm oil mill was
constructed; together with a planned development of additional 2,500 ha and expansion of the
mill to 25 tons/hour. Consequently, the project financing included resources to finance
inputs, operate and replace plant and equipment inherited from the earlier project until such a
time that the project would generate positive cash flow from its operations. The project also
provided for on-plantation housing of its workers as a solution to the high level of
absenteeism encountered during the first phase. To provide for the required management and
technical expertise, the implementing agency would enter into a management contract with an
internationally recognized firm experienced in oil palm management. The staff of the
managing firm would work with Ghanaian counterparts, who would have to be trained to take
over the management by the end of the contract. The investments made in OPI warranted
follow-up IDA assistance to support pre-maturity crop maintenance and to expand production
to a financially-viable scale.
10.   Except for two relatively small components, project implementation was assigned to
the Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation (GOPDC), which had implemented OPI.
OPRI and the Ministry of Agriculture were to be responsible for research and for feasibility
studies for future agricultural projects, respectively. Although wholly government-owned,
GOPDC was to be given autonomy to operate as a business entity. It was intended that, in
the course of time, the prospects for privatization of GOPDC would be discussed, including
the possibility of smallholders/outgrowers and employees acquiring shares in the privatized
structure. The Interim Management Committee (IMC) which had replaced the Board of
Directors in 1992 would provide policy direction only. IDA sought assurances from the
government to co-opt a representative each from the Ministries of Finance and Agriculture on
the IMC as the IMC was an internal committee composed entirely of staff of GOPDC,
without any representations from the two key policy organs at the national level. This was
complied with and the IMC was subsequently replaced by the Board which was reconstituted
in June 1991 to replace the IMC.
E. Project Implementation
11.   Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up: The Credit became effective on November
14, 1984, three weeks after the scheduled date of October 23, 1984, with the Borrower
meeting the remaining condition of signing an agreement with management consultants.
12.   Implementation Schedule: The Credit was to close on December 31, 1990, but was
extended twice, first for one year to December 31, 1991, and then for two more years to
December 31, 1993. The main objective of the extensions was to extend the outgrower
program to more participants than originally planned and also to allow for the completion of
the resurfacing of a road providing access to the project area.
13.   Outgrower Scheme: Outgrower plantings started a year later (1986) than the SAR
estimate (1985). As the Credit became effective only at the end of 1984, the oil palm
seedling nursery was established in 1985 for field planting in the following year. A revised



4
planting program was agreed to and maintained, and by the time of the original closing date
3,750 ha had been planted. A further 1,533 ha were planted during the three-year extension
period. GOPDC provided the outgrowers with technical advice and long-term credit. Credit
in kind was provided for oil palm seedlings, leguminous cover-crop seed, fertilizers and farm
tools. Participating farmers were also advanced credit in cash for 80 percent of labor costs
for up to four years from planting. Altogether 2,673 farmers joined the outgrower scheme
with an average of 1.98 ha per farmer. A majority of the outgrowers adopted most of the
practices recommended by the staff of the GOPDC outgrower unit, but it was apparent that
quite often the fertilizer provided by GOPDC was not being applied to the palms once these
appeared to have been well-established. Consequently, after 1990, GOPDC decided not to
supply fertilizers after the first year of planting except on demand. One issue that seems to
have been discussed several times was the type of planting material that should be provided to
the outgrowers. The choice was between that produced by OPRI and that obtained from Cote
d'Ivoire, the latter having higher yield potential but also being much more expensive. The
inability of OPRI to supply the required quantities on a timely basis created a fait accompli of
a sort. Also the unusually high oil extraction rates obtained from the imported material seem
to justify the higher cost.
14.   Farmer debt carried an annual compound interest rate of 12.5 percent capitalized over
the first six years. Interest was paid in the seventh and eighth years; then interest and capital
were to be paid in five equal installments. Under DCA section 3.01, outgrower loan funds
were to be from a loan from the government to GOPDC also at 12.5 percent interest rate.
There was therefore no margin allowed for GOPDC for the full credit risk it was to take.
IDA supervision missions in 1990 asked the government to review the interest rate charged to
farmers to be consistent with rates charged by other Bank-assisted projects such as the Rural
Finance (Cr. 2040-GH) and SME/Finance (Cr. 1996-GH) projects, starting from 1991
plantings. At that time, the Rural Finance Project was charging the participating financial
institutions a reference interest rate (RIR) of 18.95 percent, and they on-lent to farmers at
rates between 19.5 percent and 35 percent. The objective was to avoid discriminating against
other crops with preferential rates for oil palm which might lead to inflated demand for
outgrower planting. On request from the government, IDA agreed to suspend application of a
new interest rate for new plantings in view of the fact that farmers who had already been
selected had agreed to participate on basis of the existing arrangement. The old rate was
maintained until the end of the project.
15.   GOPDC collected fruits from farmers at points close to their farms for processing at
the central mill. It kept smallholder/outgrower accounts and deducted from fruit sales against
loan repayment. Annual loan repayments tended to be higher for smallholders whose farms
were happened to be located within the nucleus estate boundaries and were developed almost
as its integral part. Outgrowers, whose farms are generally some distance away from the
nucleus estate and have been less intensively supervised than the smallholders, have been less
responsible in repayments (see below).
YEAR                       1990   1991 1992 1993
Smallholder Repayment %     70     81   69   98
Outgrower Repayment %       54     58   48   76
Total Repayment %           65     76   64   85



5
16.   Nucleus Es: Oil palm plantings completed in OPI for the nucleus estate owned
and operated by GOPDC as a corporate entity continued to be maintained and harvested.
Maintenance consisted of weeding, fertilizer application and replacement of palms and was
satisfactorily carried out. The plantation suffered from drought in late 1986 and early 1987
and a serious attack of leaf miner disease during November 1986 to April 1987. The palms
recovered with the return of good rains whilst the leaf miner was controlled by aerial
spraying. Subsequently, a program was established for routine monitoring of leaf miner
population and this was successful in keeping it under control. As the plantation had been
developed as one contiguous block, there was considerable variation in soil characteristics
leading to differing impact on oil palm growth and productivity. 1981 plantings were largely
over an area where soils were shallow and a hard-pan prevented proper root development. As
a result there was high incidence of wind damage over an area of about 285 ha. It may be
necessary to exclude some of these areas from normal maintenance because of low palm
density and resulting uneconomic production.
17.   As the plantation matured there was less requirement for labor for field maintenance
which was partly offset by the need for harvesting workers. Also there was seasonality in the
demand for labor with more harvesters and maintenance workers required during the period
of high oil palm fruit production and higher rainfall which occurred at about the same time.
It would appear that in attempting to balance seasonal demands with an assured supply of
labor, GOPDC ended up with a larger permanent labor force than its productivity could
justify. In addition, the wage structure was not related to output. This was particularly true
for harvesting where labor requirements in the low production period can be one quarter of
that for months of high production. The politicization of the relationship between workers
and management also made it difficult for GOPDC to demand greater productivity from its
workers. Nevertheless, after pressure from the Bank and increasing competition from
imports, GOPDC introduced an incentive scheme to improve the productivity of fruit
harvesters whereby a harvester received a bonus for higher output on a weight basis. The
aim was to start with a minimum of 0.5 ton ffb per harvester per day and push it up to 1 ton
ffb per harvester. This was quite successful and the average output per worker increased
from 0.5 ton in 1990 to I ton in 1993. A drawback of the scheme was that it encouraged
enterprising workers to over-harvest (that is, cut underripe fruits), which meant a loss for the
plantation in terms of lower oil extraction. This necessitated closer worker supervision and
imposition of penalties for underripe fruit harvested.
18.   GOPDC had begun with a large labor force, but retrenchment was successful in
reducing it by 30 percent to 1,460 in 1988. This has been gradually scaled down further, and
total staff strength at the time of the PCR stood at 805.
19.   Project Costs and Financing: The government delayed in providing US$1.3 million
equivalent as its equity contribution to GOPDC required in section 3.01(c) of the DCA. IDA
missions suggested to the government to issue GOPDC shares to financial institutions,
workers and farmers in view of the difficulty in raising its equity. The government offered
50 percent of equity shares to financial institutions with the intention of retaining 30 percent
and giving 20 percent to farmers, but the financial institutions did not accept the offer on the
premise that their liquidity position was weak. Consequently, the government did not
implement the plan to sell part of its shares to institutions and farmers and continued to fully
own GOPDC. Generally, GOPDC met its working capital and counterpart funds



6
requirements from internally generated revenues. However, there were some years when cash
earnings dropped below budget estimates due to drought-induced lower production. At
another time, GOPDC had to pay for unplanned increases in salaries arising from new wage
agreements, fuel costs and locally procured spare parts; it was able to use local commercial
bank overdraft facilities to finance the extra expenditures. Only about midway through the
project period did management begin to make good use of the budget as a management tool
and fully involve the senior staff in its formulation and monitoring. This resulted in better
financial planning and a senior management more responsive to profitability objectives.
IRHO staff had tended to be more oriented to maximizing technical input and proficiency and
this was at the expense of cost management.
20.   Management: Project management was provided by IRHO which stayed on from OPI
under renegotiated terms. At the start there were problems related to management
maintaining good relations with labor and government authorities. The situation erupted into
a demonstration by workers against management during which four senior local staff sustained
serious injuries. In the first few years there were three changes in the Chief Executive
provided by IRHO and this created some instability which the local political organization
exploited to create a confrontational relationship with management. Nonetheless, the overall
management performance was good despite these initial difficulties. An interesting feature of
the IRHO management arrangements was that several Ghanaians were engaged by IRHO as
their own staff seconded to GOPDC and this permitted these staff to be paid salaries
substantially higher than those prevailing in Ghana. The performance of these contract
employees was quite satisfactory. On expiration of the contract on December 31, 1992, the
expatriate Managing Director was retained as a Technical Adviser. A Ghanaian Deputy
Managing Director was appointed and the contract terms for the Ghanaians on the IRHO team
were changed to that of direct employees of GOPDC. The Ghanaian Deputy Managing
Director became the Acting Managing Director after the departure of the expatriate Technical
Adviser in June 1993. The GOPDC Board of Directors agreed with an IDA supervision
mission in March 1992 to submit a long-term management proposal to IDA. In 1993, the
GOPDC Board submitted to government and received approval to maintain the present
establishment of an all-Ghanaian management team as the long-term plan. The transition
from IRHO management to a management team consisting entirely of Board employees
appears to have been successfully achieved with good continuity of management being
provided by staff previously employed under the IRHO contract.
21.   Civil Works: Mill extension work was commissioned five months behind schedule
due to a delay in the signing of the contract and disagreement over the rectification of
construction defects. The additional equipment and facilities that were installed were for
upgrading the rated capacity from 15 to 30 tons of ffb/hr. Although it was possible to operate
the mill at the rated capacity at the required efficiency level, continuous operation was limited
at the beginning by inadequate palm oil storage facilities, as at that time a near monopolistic
buyer was lifting produce very slowly. This bottleneck has since been removed through the
expansion of storage capacity from 1,000 tons to 5,000 tons capable of storing 30 percent of
the annual output.
22.   GOPDC hired a local firm of consulting architects to prepare the designs for the
buildings for workers' housing, offices, stores, workshops and a health clinic. The firm's
contract included preparation and calling for bids, bid evaluation and supervision of the



7
construction work. The SAR mentioned that earlier designs were too elaborate and should be
simplified to suit users. This was generally complied with, except that the government
disagreed with the proposal to use wood instead of concrete.
23.   Delays in obtaining bids put the construction program behind schedule by one year at
a time when the value of the cedi was depreciating, resulting in near doubling of local
currency costs from estimated ¢433 million to ¢800 million. Orders placed for imports of
building materials arrived on time for the construction. Construction and maintenance of fruit
collection and feeder roads were satisfactorily performed by the engineering department of
GOPDC. A request from GOPDC management to create a second workers' village was not
agreed to by the Bank as this would have not only increased GOPDC's overheads, but was
also not consistent with the concept of having a small nucleus permanent labor force with
seasonal increases in demand for workers being met through recruitment from nearby villages.
24.   Processing and Marketing: Apart from processing fruits from the nucleus plantation
and smallholder/outgrower units, GOPDC bought additional fruits from private farmers and
state farms. GOPDC maintained a fixed price throughout the year and it was ¢26,000 per
ton ffb at the time of PCR preparation. Naturally, farmers sold fruits to private traders
whenever their offer prices were higher than GOPDC's. Under section 3.08 of the DCA, the
government was to constitute a pricing committee and maintain a pricing policy acceptable to
IDA. This committee was not constituted; instead, producers and consumers, of their own
initiative, formed a committee which has been setting prices.
25.   The experience with marketing of palm oil was mixed. Prices were good in some
years,' but there also were low price periods such as 1989/90 when large stocks of oil could
not be sold. This problem occurred partly because of reliance on one single purchaser for 90-
95 percent of sales. The situation was worsened at that time by the unusually high production
coupled with competition from food aid imports of subsidized refined oils. GOPDC has since
diversified its customer base. The largest buyer now accounts for about 40 percent of sales.
It also exports palm oil to neighboring West African countries, and has started marketing
edible red palm oil for the domestic retail market. In 1993, the ratio of local sales to exports
was 3:1, the same as in 1992. Local sales had accounted for a larger share of total sales in
earlier years (as much as 94 percent in 1991). GOPDC has expanded exports to the West
African sub-region, to take advantage of rising world market price and reduce its dependency
on the internal market dominated by one large buyer. In 1993 the domestic sales price
averaged US$338 per ton ex-mill. The equivalent export price was US$390/ton reflecting a
rise in prices towards the end of the year.
26.   Procurement: Goods and services were procured in accordance with IDA guidelines.
GOPDC contracted the services of procurement agents as stipulated in section 3.02(b) of the
DCA. Certain spare parts were bought directly from the original suppliers or through
procurement agents. Vehicles, agricultural equipment and road works were procured through
ICB. IDA allowed high-quality germinated seeds to be sole source from neighboring Cote
d'Ivoire.
1 For example, the price per ton was C95,000 in 1986, compared to the SAR estimate of
e-30,422.



8
27.   Three major procurement problems were encountered: (i) in the procurement of the
palm oil mill extension the then PNDC Secretary for Agriculture wanted to award the
contract to a bidder who was not the lowest evaluated bidder, a situation that could have
resulted in misprocurement; eventually, the government did place the contract with the lowest
evaluated bidder in line with IDA requirements; (ii) the consulting architects for the building
program decided to disqualify the prequalified firm with the lowest bid on the basis of poor
performance under a previous contract; the matter was later settled through rebidding but this
slowed down 73 percent of the procurement program for 1986; and (iii) for the resurfacing of
the Kade-Kwae road, the Ghana Highway Authority took about three years to prepare bid
documents, call for bids and evaluate them, and at the time of project closing, no contract
award had been made, leaving about US$2 million of the Credit unused.
28.   Disbursement: Annual disbursement ranged from 61 percent to 91 percent of the
appraisal estimates. The total amount disbursed was US$27.3 million. On December 31,
1990, the original Credit closing date, US$6.8 million were undisbursed. This was reduced
to US$4 million at the end of the first extension on December 31, 1991, of which US$2
million was allocated for resurfacing of the Kade-Kwae road and US$2 million for upgrading
of the oil mill, technical assistance, agro-chemicals and research. On May 10, 1994, the day
of the last disbursement, the remaining undisbursed amount of US$2.1 million was canceled.
29.   Budgeting, Accounts and Audits: GOPDC prepared annual budgets and submitted
information copies to IDA and maintained proper accounts. In fulfillment of section 4.01(b)
of the DCA, external auditors audited and prepared audited reports for GOPDC's operations.
Generally, submission of the reports to IDA met the deadlines set in the DCA, i.e. not later
than six months after the end of GOPDC's fiscal year.
30.   Training and Studies: Implementation of the training program started very slowly but
improved. The slow start may have been due to the fact that staff were not placed on the
basis of specific job descriptions with attendant qualifications. An assessment of skill gaps, as
the first step in training need identification, was carried out and this resulted in a more
creditable training program that focused on skill requirement for tasks that were assigned to
staff.
31.   Research: The project supported OPRI with vehicles, equipment, buildings, training
and technical assistance for plant breeding and production of improved seeds. Preparation of
a five-year research program was a condition for disbursement for this component. The
program was approved after a year's delay in preparation.
32.   Whilst OPRI was short of scientific staff and had no substantive administrative head,
other staff were in excess. On advice from IDA supervision missions, its Board of Directors
agreed to rationalize the size and distribution of the labor force. By 1990, an administrative
head was appointed and additional scientific staff were recruited.
33.   Staff training started late but subsequently picked up and was conducted satisfactorily.
Generally, OPRI performed reasonably well in terms of use of technical assistance. However,
investment and management activities including staffing were weak, although some
improvement was achieved towards the end of the project. For example, building of
laboratories (with own funds) was delayed such that equipment procured with IDA funds had



9
to be kept in storage for a long time. Financial management was also deficient initially. An
IDA mission in 1990 observed that there was little financial information in OPRI's reports and
that OPRI had overspent its allocation by US$64,000. This caused IDA to ask for a financial
and physical audit of OPRI to ensure proper use of materials and equipment. The report was
submitted to IDA in 1993. As a follow-on action of the physical audit, OPRI agreed with an
IDA supervision mission in February 1993 to complete the audit by providing information on
the prices of stock of goods and their prevailing market values. This was to be reviewed and
approved by IDA, and the stock of spare parts for motorbikes and bicycles was then to be
sold to the staff at a marked down price of 85 percent of market value. OPRI stated it was
unable to implement this because accredited dealers in motorbikes were unwilling to release
their prices which were to form the basis for setting OPRI's offer prices.
34.   In March 1992, IDA agreed to financing up to US$200,000 for research on Cape St.
Paul's Wilt a(ethal Yellow) Disease of coconut as the disease incidence had become so
serious that it was necessary to support MOFA with materials, equipment, technical assistance
and training. This research started with preliminary investigations by visiting entomologists
from CIRAD-CP. CIRAD-CP provided supervisory assistance through periodic missions of
scientific staff. Trials were carried out on the biology of the disease vector and the mode of
transmission of the disease. In its report to IDA (December 1993), MOFA indicated that the
period of investigation was too short to provide conclusive results. It has since transferred the
responsibility for coconut research to OPRI and intends to seek further support under the
Agricultural Diversification Project (Cr. 2180-GH) to continue present research activities.
Environment
35.   Oil palm rows were inter-planted with pueraria as a cover crop which helped protect
against soil erosion and reduce weed infestation. Mill effluent was treated to avoid pollution
of streams. Retained effluent together with empty bunches was spread under palm trees as
fertilizer whilst kernel shells were used as fuel for firing boilers to generate steam for
operating the mill. At the time of high incidence of leaf miner disease, widespread aerial
spraying of chemicals was undertaken. Application of chemicals has since been reduced to
minimal levels following the establishment of a routine monitoring system that helped with
early detection and control of the disease.
F. Project Results
36.    As evidenced by a high demand for participation by outgrowers, the project
successfully achieved the aim of diversifying production from cocoa, the most important cash
crop in the project area. Farmers were receptive to extension advice on improved cultivation
practices and the use of improved planting material. The project successfully established a
nucleus plantation linked to smallholder/outgrower holdings. It is premature at this stage to
assess the full impact of the project. It is not until 1996, one year after SAR estimate of full
development, that the project is expected attain full development, due to a one-year delay in
planting. Nevertheless, immediate results show that the project has good prospects for
achieving the anticipated impact in the future.
37.   Yields of ffb have fluctuated between 10 tons/ha and 13 tons/ha on the nucleus
plantation and between 4.3 tons/ha and 7.5 tons/ha on smallholder/outgrower farms during the



10
project period. The SAR estimates were 11.5 tons/ha and 7.5 tons/ha for the nucleus
plantation and smallholder/outgrowers, respectively (Table 8). At end of the revised planting
schedule in 1990, 3,750 ha had been newly established by outgrowers. During the three
years that the Credit was extended, additional plantings were undertaken and this brought OP2
plantings up to 5,283 ha. At the end of the 1990 plantings, the annual fruit production of
41,000 tons was 89 percent of the SAR estimate; 73 percent of this came from the nucleus
plantation and 27 percent from smallholder/outgrower holdings. The palm oil and kernel
equivalent were 9,027 tons and 1,756 tons, respectively. The PCR estimates fruit production,
which was 80,315 tons in 1993, to reach 91,000 tons at full development in 1996. If this is
attained, it will represent 129 percent of the SAR estimate. The central mill achieved
excellent average annual extraction rates, ranging from 20.5 percent to 24.1 percent. At the
time of PCR preparation, annual production of palm oil and palm kernels was 16,700 tons
and 3,040 tons, respectively, whilst the total area under oil palm for the OPI and OP2
projects was 10,192 ha, with the shares of the nucleus plantation and smallholder/outgrowers
being 3,559 ha and 6,633 ha, respectively, the latter being owned by 2,673 farmers.
38.   GOPDC's financial performance was generally good during project implementation.
It recorded profits in all years except one. Net profits after tax ranged from e26.3 million in
1984 to C1,570.3 million in 1993 (Annex 1). In 1987 it incurred a loss of e140.7 million
because of low production caused by drought and severe leaf miner attack. It was only in this
year and in 1988 that GOPDC's financial performance fell below the SAR estimates. Loan
recovery from farmers was below expectation, although the farmers received appropriate
extension advice from GOPDC and had an assured market for their produce. Annual loan
recovery varied from 48 percent to 98 percent. GOPDC's performance here could have been
better had it adopted advice from various IDA missions to use a flexible pricing system that
responds to the seasonality of production. A fixed price system where more than 60 percent
of the annual crop is produced in the first half of the year and where a parallel free market
price operates provides little incentive for farmers to sell their produce to GOPDC, especially
during the lean season of production when there are more buyers than sellers.
39.   Actual project cost including taxes and duties at project closing was US$35.1 million
(Table 5), close to the SAR estimate of US$35.9 million. IDA financed 78 percent of the
costs versus 70 percent as estimated in the SAR. GODPC's share was correspondingly lower
at 18 percent versus 25 percent while the government and outgrowers contributed 4 percent
instead of 5 percent. The strengthening of the SDR increased the available IDA funds in US
Dollars to an estimated $29.4 million against the original estimate of $25 million. Actual
US$ drawings amounted to $27.3 million or 9 percent above the estimate. Foreign exchange
costs were 68 percent compared to the estimated 62 percent being mainly accounted for by the
additional cost of technical assistance and outgrower farm inputs during the three-year
extension of the Credit. The economic rate of return is 21 percent (Annex 4A). This
compares favorably with the SAR estimate of 12.3 percent. In terms of liquidity, the PCR
estimates the cash inflow into the local economy as ¢979.7 million in 1993; this is expected
to increase as more plantings come into maturity. This contributes towards poverty
alleviation in the area as a majority of the beneficiaries are small farmers.
40.   Incremental on-farm employment is 240,000 person-days per year, 140 percent of the
SAR estimate. This is accounted for by a favorable farmer response to participation. At



11
present, employment on the nucleus plantation, at 805, is marginally higher than the SAR
estimate of 800.
41.   The IRHO management team managed GOPDC satisfactorily despite difficult labor
relations and political interference at the beginning of the project. Its ability to withstand
political pressures was essential to GOPDC's performance. The all-Ghanaian management
team took over only recently and it is too early to evaluate its performance.
42.   GOPDC conducted a feasibility study of outgrowers and, in 1993, supplied farm
inputs to outgrowers as support to a Phase III project, now a component of the on-going
Agricultural Diversification Project (Cr. 2180-GH). Eight senior staff and middle level
personnel received technical, management, and on-the-job training and took study tours
outside the country.
43.   OPRI was strengthened but it needs to grow further to be able to provide full research
support in breeding and production of improved seed to the oil palm industry. OPRI
produced between 0.8 million and 2 million improved seeds annually, against the SAR
estimate of 1.2 million. It has been recently assigned responsibility for coconut research in
addition to oil palm.
44.   The project constructed 45 km of access roads whilst keeping a good road
maintenance regime on existing roads. Inability to resurface the Kade-Kwae road was a
setback. Although not in the original plans, it was considered important to the project, as
evacuation of produce from the project to markets had become a serious problem. Its
implementation was the responsibility of the Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) who got the
process through to the bid evaluation stage where it has stalled. The last correspondence to
IDA about this from GOPDC states that GHA had completed the evaluation of bids and was
awaiting Government's approval on the recommendation of award of the contract.
G. Project Sustainability
45.   Farmers' incomes can be sustained if the present arrangement for fruit collection and
marketing is maintained by GOPDC. It is not likely that the mill would not purchase produce
from farmers because the viability of the oil mill depends on smallholder/outgrower
production, more so in the future when 60 percent of ffb required for processing is expected
to come from this source. Continued good farm upkeep is crucial in sustaining good yields
through continued application of improved cultural practices. Even if the nucleus estate
withdraws its extension support to farmers, this may not have an adverse effect on yields as
farmers are likely to continue to apply the improved cultural practices they have learnt during
project implementation. Good maintenance of roads and of the fruit collection system are
essential to ensure timely delivery of good-quality produce to the mill, and GOPDC will need
to pay attention to this area even if the responsibility were to be placed with another agency.
46.   GOPDC is undergoing divestiture, and local and international private firms have made
bids. This presents a good prospect for its continued management as a viable commercial
entity. There is some uncertainty, however, about the future of the smallholder/outgrower
scheme, that is, whether and how it would remain linked with the nucleus estate. In the event
that is left out of the purchase, this component will most likely remain linked to the nucleus



12
estate because the latter cannot operate profitably without the other's contribution. What is
not determined now is the kind of relationship that would be established between the two.
47.   Loan recovery can be improved if GOPDC adopts a flexible pricing system adequate
for competition in the free market in order to induce outgrowers/smallholders to sell their
produce to the mill and enhance loan repayment. Provided local prices do not fall drastically
and GOPDC operates cost effectively, its financial position will remain good. Unfavorable
world prices may from time to time jeopardize its export program, while subsidized imports
will always remain a threat in the domestic market at times of low world prices. However,
with a growing internal demand and GOPDC judiciously exploiting both the local and export
markets, it should continue to be a profitable venture.
H. Bank Performance
48.   The Bank maintained a continuous dialogue with project management and government
authorities throughout project implementation. Although there were controversies over
management and procurement issues at the beginning, the relationship, in general, was
cordial. The Bank provided adequate support with a total of 72.9 staff weeks (excluding PCR
preparation) - an average of 7.3 staff weeks per year. The Bank fielded fifteen supervision
missions, some with staff from the Resident Mission, during the nine years that the project
was implemented. Supervision missions advised on technical, procurement and disbursement
issues.
49.   The Bank was flexible in agreeing to reviews of planned activities as they became
inoperative in a changed situation. However, the Bank did not compromise on the use of the
Bank's guidelines on procurement and insisted on the Borrower following agreed actions
where there was no justification for changes.
I. Borrower Performance
50.   The Borrower delayed in fulfillment of some covenants. Although delayed by three
years, the Borrower fulfilled the covenant on its equity contribution at a time of a severe
budget squeeze. In spite of political interference now and then, the project was well managed
as a commercial entity partly because the consulting firm in charge of management was able
and willing to resist political pressures. It kept control over expenditures and reduced excess
labor. Overall the Borrower maintained a cordial relationship with the Bank.
J. Project Relationship
51.   GOPDC was receptive, in most cases, to advice from Bank staff and maintained a
good relationship with it. The Government showed commitment and assisted with
implementation. However, the project suffered at times from bureaucratic delays by the
Government. For example, the Head of OPRI was appointed only in 1990, which is six years
after project effectiveness.



13
K. Consulting Services
52.   The managing consultants performed creditably, putting in place a good management
system and building up local capacity to take over management of GOPDC.
L. Project Documentation and Data
53.   The SAR provided a useful guide for project implementation. The DCA provided
adequate safeguards for achieving project objectives. Annual budgets were prepared and
submitted to IDA. A management information system recently initiated by GOPDC is useful,
but needs some improvement in the consistency of data obtained from various departments
and in presentation. The smallholder/outgrower accounting set-up has improved monitoring
and provides transparency to farmers on their financial dealings with the project. Monthly
management accounts instituted in recent years have been a useful tool to monitor GOPDC's
performance.



14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(CREDIT 1498-GH)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A draft of the PCR was sent to the Borrower for comment on May 13, 1994 and no comments were received.



15
PART III:      STATISTICAL INFORMATION



16
A.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Table 1:  IDA CREDIT/LOAN RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Credit/Loan and                  Purpose                     Year of Approval           Status
Title
Credit 205-GH              Rehabilitation and replanting of cocoa   1970
Eastern Region Cocoa       with high yielding hybrid cocoa                       Audit Report No. 3526
Project                                                                          dated June 24, 1981
Loan 1181-GH               Revitalize cocoa industry through        1975         Completed PCR No.
Ashanti Region Cocoa      replanting with high yielding hybrid                   5092 dated May 24,
Project                    cocoa                                                 1984
Credit 531-GH              Develop production of oil palm           1990         Completed PCR June
Oil Palm Development      through establishment of nucleus                       1983
Project                    plantation and outgrower plantings
Credit 2180-GH             To revitalize and expand production of   1990         On-going
Agricultural               non-cocoa tree crops and horticultural
Diversification            crops for export and import substitution,
Project                    mainly through smallholders



17
B.    Project Timetable
Table 2:   PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                              Date Planned        Date Revised         Date Actual
Identification/Preparation                                                 5/8; 6/80
Appraisal Mission                 04/81                                    04/81
Post-Appraisal Mission                                                     04/81;07/8108/81
Reappraisal Mission                                                        10/83
Credit Negotiations               10/81                                    05/84
Board Approval                    12/81               02/82; 05/84         06/84
Credit Signature                                                           06/84
Credit Effectiveness              ../82                10/84; 12/84        11/84
Credit Completion                                                          04/94
Credit Closing                   ../87                06/90                31/93 2
2   A first extension of the closing date from December 31, 1990 to December 31, 1991
was approved on December 12, 1990.
A second extension of closing date was approved on December 24, 1991 from
December 31 1991 to December 31, 1993 to complete rehabilitation of 25km Kade-
Kwae road.



18
C.    Credit Disbursements
Table 3:   CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
Disbursements (US$ million)
Bank FY and Quarter          Appraisal                    Actual                       Actual as %
Cumulative                   Cunulative                   of Estimate
FY84                          -                            0.2                           -
FY85                          1.2                          1.1                         91
FY86                         6.3                           4.8                         76
FY87                         13.5                         10.2                         76
FY88                         19.8                         12.1                         61
FY89                         22.6                         15.6                         69
FY90                         25.0                         18.6                         74
FY91                          -                           22.7
FY92                          -                           24.9
FY93                          -                           26.8
FY94                          -                           27.3
Date of Final Disbursement: May 10, 1994



19
D.   Project Implementation
Table 4:  PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS
Planned            Actual        Comments
Completion         Completion
Prenursery and Nursery Development     06/88              06/88
Construction of GOPDC Housing          12/88              06/90
Drawing up of OPRI Research Program    03/85               12/90
Construction of OPRI Laboratory        12/85                            No extension done
Buildings Extensions
Specifications and Tenders for Vehicles  12/84; 12/85; 09/86   1985 - 1992   Annual procurement
Procurement of GOPDC Vehicles and      09/85; 09/86        1985 - 1992   Annual procurement
Equipment                              12/87
Procurement of OPRI Vehicles and       12/85; 12/87        1987-1990    Annual procurement
Equipment                              12/89; 12/90
Procurement of Farm Inputs, Equipment  03/85; 03/86        03/86 - 06/93 Done annually
and Research Materials                06/87; 06/88
Planting of Oil Palm                   09/85; 09/86        09/86-09/92   Annual plantings
09/87; 09/88
Appointment of Consultants
a.    Research OPRI                    11/84;07/85;07/86    07/86-12/90
07/87;03/88
b.    Training and Consultants         06/85; 06/86; 06/88   06/86-06/88
c.    Architectural Services           08/84; 12/84; 06/85   01/86      Consultant recruited once
06/88
d.    Outgrower Survey                 03/86              03/86 - 03/91 Done annually
e.    Phase III Feasibility Study      03/86; 09/87       09/88
f.    Studies of Future Agric. Projects    09/86; 09/87; 09/88          Replaced with research on
Lethal Yellow Disease of
coconut
g.    Phase II Completion Report       09/87               1994         Credit closing date extended to
December 31, 1993
Training (GOPDC Staff)          09/87               09/87        Done Annually
Training (OPRI staff)           09/85               09/93
08/86               1/88-/90
08/87
08/88



20
E.    Proiect Costs and Financing
Table S: PROJECT COST
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimates                             Actual
Local        Foreign       Total         Local         Foreign       Total
Costs        Exchange                    Costs         Exchange
Costs                                    Costs
Project Headquarters        1.1           1.7           2.8          2.0*          0.4           2.4
& Management
Nucleus Plantation          5.4           7.3          12.7           6.5*         8.5           15.0
Outgrower/Smallholder       1.3           2.9           4.2           0.3          7.3            7.6
Scheme
Palm Oil Mill               0.8           4.6           5.4           2.5          3.5            6.0
Training, Consultancy       0.2           2.7           2.9           -            4.1            4.1
& Research
Base Cost                   8.8          19.2          28.0
Physical Contingencies      0.5           0.9           1.4
Price Contingencies         4.5           2.0           6.5
Total Cost                 13.8          22.1          35.9          11.3          23.8          35.1
*Approximations of costs attributable to OP2 from total costs which include OPI.



21
Table 6P pROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)
Source                           Appraisal Estimate        Actual
IDA                              25.0                      27.3
GOPDC                            9.1                        6.2
Smallholder/Outgrower            0.5                        0.3
Ghana Government                  1.3                       1.3
Total                            35.9                      35.1



22
Table 7: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
(SDR)
Category                                     DCA                 Actual Disbursement
1.    Civil Works for roads and oil mill            1,410,000           1,991,731.21
construction (100% foreign, 70% local)
2a.   Building Materials (100% foreign)             2,820,000            742,463.50
b.   Building Materials (100% foreign, 70% local)    470,000             199,409.60
Subtotal                                      3,390,000            941,873.10
3.    Vehicles, equipment, spare parts, furniture   10,340,000         11,271,865.78
and farm inputs (100%)
4.    Vehicles, equipment, research materials and   1,880,000           2,433,413.16
spare parts
5a.   Consultants' services and training abroad of  2,070,000           4,101,654.58
local staff
b.   Consultants' services and training abroad of    660,000             258,286.89
local staff
C.    Consultants' services and training abroad of   280,000             154,995.45
local staff
Sub-total                                     3,010,000           4,514,936.92
6.    Special Account                                660,000              191,607.66
7.    Refunding of PPF Advance                       840,000              671,192.45
8.    Unallocated                                   2,070,000
9.    Undisbursed Balance                                                1,483,379.72
TOTAL                                        23,500,000          23,500,000.00



23
F.    Project Results
Table 8: DIRECT BENEFITS
Indicator                        Unit                Appraisal Estimate        PCR Estimate
Smallholder/Outgrower            Farm Families       500-620                     2,673
Benefitting
Employment on Nucleus            Families            800                          805
Estate
Incremental                      Man days/Year       100,000                   240,000
On-farm Employment
New                              Hectare            2,500                        5,283
Outgrower
Planting
Yield of ffb:                    ton/hectare
Nucleus Estate                                     11.5                          13
Smallholder/Outgrower                               7.5                           8
Total annual production of ffb (Ph. I & II)
expected end of phase II
planting (1988)  1             ton                 46,000                      40,847
at full development (1995)     ton                 70,350                      91,000
Annual Production of             ton                 14,070                     20,020
Palm Oil - Ph.1 & 11 (1995)  2
Annual Production of             ton                 2,814                       3,640
Palm Kernel - Ph.1 & 11 (1995) 2/
Extraction Rate:                 %
Palm Oil                                             20                          22
Palm Kernel                                           4                           4
Mill Capacity                    ton/ffb/hour          25                          30
Annual Production of             Million              1.3                      0.8 - 2
Improved Seeds
Construction of Access           Km                    75                          45
Roads
End of planting revised to 1990
2     Full development revised to 1996
2/



24
G.    Status of Credit Covenants
Table 9: COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT COVENANTS
Section No. of                          Covenant                                 Status
Credit Agreement
ARTICLE II: THE CREDIT
2.02 (c)                         Borrower shall open a special                   Complied
account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
2.04                             The closing date shall be December              Extended twice
31, 1990 or such date as the Association       to 12/31/91; and
shall establish.                                12/31/93
3.01(b)                          Borrower shall cause GOPDC to perform in        Complied
accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement and Subsidiary Financing
Agreement all obligations therein set forth
3.01(c)                          The Borrower shall: (i) make a contribution     Complied after
in cedi to GOPDC's equity in the amount of     two years
$1.3 million equivalent by March 31, 1985;
(ii) cause GOPDC to retain 20 per cent
of its export proceeds of foreign currency;
(iii) maintain policies and procedures for
such retention satisfactory to the             Complied
Association; and (iv) to the extent such
retention is sufficient to meet GOPDC's
recurrent expenditures in foreign currencies,
the Borrower shall allocate to GOPDC
foreign currencies required to meet its
recurrent operating expenditures.
3.01(d)                          A subsidiary agreement to be entered into       Complied
between the Borrower and GOPDC, that
equivalent of $3.2 million GOPDC to
be made available in form of GOPDC
equity capital and equivalent of
$19.6 million in form of loan to
GOPDC with final maturity of 15 years,
bearing interest at the rate of
12.5 per cent per annum payable



25
in 15, annual installments and
repayable in 8 equal annual
installments of principal, commencing
7 years from date of loan.
3.02 (a)                          Borrower to employ engineering                   Complied
and agricultural consultants
3.02 (b)                          Borrower to enable GOPDC employ                  Complied
procurement agents.
3.05                              The Borrower to ensure that the                  Complied
proprietary interest of outgrower
is defined and recorded with land
reporting offices.
3.06                              OPRI to draw up five-year                        Complied
research and work program
3.07                              Borrower to cause IMC to co-opt                  Complied, IMC
a representative each from MOFEP;               replaced by Board
Eastern Regional Administration;
and one representative of the
outgrowers
3.08                              Borrower to (i) maintain pricing                 Not complied
committee; and (ii) pricing policy for          Price set by a
sale of palm oil.                               Committee of
Producers and
consumers
OTHER COVENANTS
4.01(a)                           Borrower to maintain separate                    Complied
accounts for OPRI and MOFA
4.01(c)                           Borrower to: (i) have accounts                   Complied
referred to in para. (a) and (b) of
this section including the Special
Account, for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as
soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified
copies of the report.



26
ARTICLE VI
6.01 (b)                         GOPDC to enter into a contract                  Complied
with a firm experienced in oil
palm plantation management and
oil mill operations.



27
H. Use of Bank Resources
Table 10: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                          Original                   Revised              Actual
Project Cycle                     Plan                       Plan
Appraisal                                                                         28.4
Negotiations                                                                      30.1
Supervision                       78                         77.1                 72.9
Completion                                                                        4



28
Table 11 MISSION
Project State       Month        No. Of        Days in      Specialization       Performance
Year         Persons       Field        Represented          Rating Status2/
Identification      09/80        4             14           PA, E, A, AG
Preparation         10/80
Pre-appraisal       11/80        1             2            FA, AG
Appraisal           04/81        4             16           FA,A,E
Post-Appraisal      01/81        1             7            E
Post-Appraisal      08/81        1             7            E
Re-Appraisal        10/83        3             12           E,T,A,
Supervision                                                                      O  D  C  M   F
Supervision         09/84        2             9            A,FA                  1  1  2   1  2
Supervision         02/85        1              8           A                     1  1  2  1  2
Supervision         02/86        1              8           A                     1  1 n/a  2  1
Supervision         06/86        1             5            A                     1  1 n/a  2  1
Supervision         09/86        2              7           A                     1  1 n/a  2  1
Supervision         04/87        1             14           A                     1  1 n/a  2  1
Supervision         02/88        1              7           A                     1  1 n/a 2  1
Supervision         09/88        1             7            TS                    1  1 n/a  2  1
Supervision         04/89        3             14           FA,TS,E               2  1  1  2  1
Supervision         02/90        1             10           FA,TS                 2  1  1  2  1
Supervision         05/90        1              2           FA                    2  1  1  2  1
Supervision         11/90        1             18           TS                   2  1  1  2  1
Supervision         09/91        2             14           FA,TS                 2  1  2  2  1
Supervision         03/92        3              7           FA,E,PO              2  1  2  2  1
Supervision         02/93        2             6            TS, PO                1  1  2  3  1
3/    1.    PA - Project Analyst, E - Economist; A - Agriculturist; AG - Agronomist; TS - Treecrop Specialist; PO
- Project Officer; P - Procurement Analyst
2.    0 - Overall Status; D - Project Development Objectives; C = Compliance with Legal Covenants; M -
Project Management; F - Availability of Funds



GHANA OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE 11
GOPDC Profit snd Lose Sttement
(million cedi)
1984               1985         1986         1987          1988         1989         1990         1991          1992         1993
Revenue
Sales: Palm Oil & Palm kernel                                101.5        389.4         622.5        574.6        872.5        1160.B       1809.6       2234.8       2838.3        5041.8
Other Income                                              0.1          2.0           4.0         24.3         29.3         43.7          62.8        279.7        320.1         881.2
TotalRevenue                                                 101.6        391.4         626.5        598.9        901.8        1204.5       1872.4       2514.5       3158.4        5923.0
Cost ofSeles - FFB purchases                                  55.9        228.8        373.4         562.8        637.1        616.1        1250.6       1462.8       2366.5       3189.6
Gross Profit                                                  45.7        162.6        253.1          36.1        264.7        588.4         621.8       1051.7        791.9       2733.4
Operating Expenses
International Staff Salaries                                  14.1         21.5          84.1        104.6        126.8         138.1        155.1        119.1         84.9         100.0
Adminisrative and General Expenses                             4.7         20.5         46.2          66.1         83.1         81.2          96.9        114.6        171.4        393.8
Total Operating Expenses                                      18.8         42.0         130.3        170.7        209.9        219.3        252.0         233.7        256.3        493.8
Operating Profit (Loss)                                       26.9        120.6         122.9       -134.6         54.8        369.1         369.8        818.0        535.6       2239.6
Deprecition                                                    0.6          1.7           3.1          6.1         12.8         14.8          17.9         24.0         18.2         36.7
Profit (Los) Before Intereat                            t     26.3        118.9         119.8       -140.7         42.0        354.3         351.9        794.0        517.4       2202.9
Interest Payments                                                                                                   6.7        227.2         256.5        277.8        356.6        332.6
Profit (Loss)                                                 26.3        118.9         119.8       -140.7         35.3        127.1         95.4         516.1        160.8       1870.3
Dividends
Net pofit Before Taxes                                        26.3        118.9         119.8      -140.7          35.3        127.1         95.4         516.1        160.S       1870.3
Taxes                                                                                                                                          2.6         3.7          94.2        300.0
Net Profit (Loss) AtferTaxes                                  26.3        118.9         119.8      -140.7          35.3        127.1         92.8        512.4          66.6       1570.3    oQ |3
% of SAR ceatimite                                            -1.6         12.9          19.4         37.9         39.5         27.7         36.6          44.1         51.6         59.7     o



GHANA OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE n
GOPDC - Sources And Apolicalion of Fundr
(thousand codis)
1985       1986       1987        1988       1989   190m            199        J*193
Sources
Total Revenue from Sales                                     389387     622513      574628     872451    1160752    1809678    2234868    2838353    5041850
Debt Repayment by SH and OG                                                                                  5009      22456      32067       29198
Equity - Govt. IDA Funds
- Govt. Own Funds                                                   193034     100000      159557
Loan  - IDA Funds                                             72210     206432      780248     342562      434425     388819     969737      410940     942565
Other Sources                                                  2021           7      24362      29297       35473      63445     275904      320121     881240
Total Sources                                  *             463618    1021986    1479238    1403867    1635659   2284398    3512576    3598612    6865655
L4J
Applications
Civil Works                                                   29981      98032     253173      473804     268962      175095      76687       29915       7339
Vehicles, Equipment & Furniture                               19023     100254      164495      50193       66648    274291      421344      562115     447423
Oil Mill                                                                 75667     345694       41743       10411      43030                234157       56132
Development Farm Inputs
for Nucleus estate                                         16463       19841                              1404                                       112540
Training and Consultancy                                     21700      110367      104642     130944      156300     168800     119100       95223     136692
Operating Expeqditure                                       212500      201100     486758      512856     556300    1256700    1152600   2009400    2464718
Loans to SHVOG Phase 1                                                                                     40930
Loan to SHIOG Phase 11                                         2118      32108      60834      182994      161125    205533      172042     256291      258263
FFB Purchaed from SH and OG                                  104400     196400      74400      139800     216300      187300     474300    610300    1118712
Interest nd Debt Repayment                                                           6700        4441       4041        4041     591459                1496764
Tax Payment to Government                                                                                               2623       3705       77878      47584
Total Application                                            406185     833769    1496696    1536775    1482421    2317413    3011237    3875279    6146167
Increase/Decrease In Working Capilal                         57433      188217      -17458    -132908     153238      -33015     501339    -276667      719488
Cwunlative lncrease in Working Capital                                  245650     228192       95284     248522      215507     716846     440179    1159667                             li >
SAR Estimates                                                                                                                                                                             (D t
Increase/Decrease In Working Capital                            300       2838      74952       32039      85915       54651      24812      30317      -39529                               X
Cumulative Increase In Working Capital                          836       3674       78626     110665      196580     251231     276043     306360     266831                                r'j



GHANA OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE 11
(OPDC - Balance Sheet
(thou and  ced Ia)
1985      I926        1987       1988       1989       3990       1991       1992      1993
ASSETS
Current Assets                                 216901     544708    616109    688929    1168125    1818076   2590683   3110358   4843967
Fixed Assets
Phase 11 Civil Works                            25477      41552      54884      54884     714939    995394    1012079   4179656   4186995
Phase 11 Vehicles, Equipment & Fumiture         16172     116426    213615      261557     804866    1118446    1502177   4837770   5708279
Phase 11 Estate Development                    102881     122721     148013     150264    4738S7    476082    476192    516534    541154
Phase I Assets                                  95315      87517      80124      68290      65537      62195      60251    1797570   1650490
Capitl Works in Progress                        24141     181766    780633    1296180      118542      14698      91385    312730       33696
LAJ
Total Fixed assets                             263986     549982    1277269    1831175   2177741   2666815   3142084   11644260   12120614
Less Depreciation                               39811      63210     1392S4    201130    359969    526564.   764966   3032033   3676196
Net Fixed assets                               224175     486772    1137985    1630045    1817772   2140251    2377118   8612227   8444418
Loan To SH/OG                                    6923      39031     134375    317369    688893    1040459    1461952   2064702   2388660
Less Repayment of Principle                                                                  5009      22456      32067      28198      31081
Net LoanTo SH/OG                                 6923      39031     134375    317369    683884    1018003    1429885   2036504   2357579
Total Assets                                   447999    1070511   1888469   2636343    3669781   4976330   6397686   13759089  15645964
LIABILITIES
Creditors                                       28529     131152    209501    424373       536590    1031444    939964    1482218   1629743
Longterm Loan Principle Repayment                                     11168       4041       4041      10786    379026    442329    633000
Total CurrentU abilities                        28529     131152    220669    428414    540631    1042230   1318990   1924547   2262743
Long-term Loan                                 220598    427030    1196110   1541358   2335502   3047654   3679843   4634099   4887440
Equity                                          51037    244071    344071    503628    503628    503628    503628    503628    503628
Retained Earnings/Loss                         147835    268258      127619     162943    290020    382818       895225    961886   2257224
Capital Surplus                                                                                                            5734929   5734929                      d
Total Usbilitiea                               447999    1070511   1888469   2636343   3669781   4976330   6397686   13759089  15645964                          rD m
SAR ESTIMATES;
0
Total Assets                                 336040    543453      705073     890484     982021    1051218   1090413    1136201   1188990
Total Liabilities                            336040    543453    705073    890484    982021   1051218   1090413   3136203    1188990



32                                      Annex 4A
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Assumption Underlying Economic Rate of Return (ERR) Calculations
These assumptions are used for ERR calculations for the Phase I and II combined (Annex 4A-
4C).
(a)    Project Life: Project life is assumed to be 35 years (1977-2011).
(b)    Project Costs:
(i)    Economic costs for Phase I in 1977-1983 are taken from the SAR
Ghana Oil Palm Development Phase II of May 1984; costs for 1983-
1994 are actual costs as provided by GOPDC; and 1995-2011 are
projected. Costs for all components are included for Phase II except
research because benefits accrue to the oil palm sector as a whole and
cannot be easily quantified now;
(ii)   all costs are net of identifiable taxes, duties and subsidies;
(iii)  the shadow wage rate for plantation and farm labor is considered to be
equal to the prevailing market wage rates per manday;
(iv)   foreign exchange costs for: 1977-1983 are taken from the SAR Ghana
Oil Palm Development Project Phase II of May 22, 1984. Subsequent
FE costs are adjusted for shadow exchange rate by multiplying the
prevailing exchange rate by shadow factors: 1984-1989 = 1.3; and
1990-2011 = 1. 1;
(v)    costs are converted to 1983 terms using Manufacturing Unit Value
(MUV) index for foreign costs and consumer price index for local
costs; and
(vi)  the opportunity cost of capital is 12%.
(c)    Project Benefits:
(i)    Project benefits are based on actual production from 1983-1994; and
projections from 1994-2011;
(ii)   palm oil and palm kernel production (Annex 4C) is valued at
economic millgate prices (Annex 4B) based on World Bank price
forecasts in 1983 terms and shadow exchange factors stated in
paragraph b.iv).
(iii)  the total value of production is the product of the sum of total
production of palm oil and palm kernel (Annex 4C) and their
economic prices (Annex 4B).



GHANA OIL PAIU  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT MARK 11
EP.oi.c RIo of Rdu,: -biod Ph   I & 11
(i. .ilhc c-d.. .IM 199  amu s .)
COSTS                                 1977 s     I9          7 I1  9  1940       1981       1992       1997       194       1955       196        19897     I9 19                 1990        991       99        1                     195
PHASE I
Io.ogino~ (Q*                         1.tO      3.10      11.00      13.00      34.80     53.30      10.70
Opetia. Ua                                                                                 9.40      13.50
Fo.cigx-c_.       .                   1.20      1.00       2.90       6.00      19.30      11.40      7.30
MUV A4. FPcwo                         0.10      0.9D       1.00       1.10       1.10       1.00      1.00
Fo...ip.0 ew: 19M T5om                1.60      1.10       2.1D       5.40      13.40     11.10       7.30
Sw  EocF.. Faoe                       2.60      3.90       2.40       4.40       9.10      10.90      3.70
Eiacadi  q.i-1a                       4.10      4.20       6.13      23.13     167.30     120.60     27.00
LocI l C...                           0.70      2.20       t.20       7.00      15.50     48.20      16.90
Lc1a Do3dm h.&.                       0.10      0.10       0.20       0.30       0.70      0.13       1.00
1oal Cod 1913 Te..                   6.10      16.90     41.00      23.30      23.D       40.20     16.90
TOW     1  IbK.- Cob                 10.2      21.2       47.30      47.10     191.10     In3."      43."
PHASE0 11
hmdooo46 Cad
BoidP                                                                                                          14.19      25.48     97.95     253.20     214.50     269.96     164.41     34.20     213.65     107.00      53.00      53.00
Vchidc.                                                                                                          6.46       0.91      40.a2     54.38      24.90      24.91     35.2      273.23      61.60      40.00      40.00      40.00
(k-1 Eq.g. & Fa.                                                                                                 0.52      18.12      53.92     42.63      22.56      3t.05      37.13     115.76     113.49     99.00      99.00      99.00
minl Eq 46                                                                                                                          281.30     345.tO      41.70      10.40     45.01      15.51      60.94      611.95     68.90      69.90
T.d..g a CC htu                                                                                                                       2.20       5.70       4.30     1.30       13.70                 1.10      60.3D
Pl_Im icop...                                                                                                    9.70      14.30     21.70      27.40      41.90      7.90 5    28.13      75.10     114.90      97.20      65.00    1U2.00
Tooh &a  i..                                                                                                    12.20      33.70      32.70     72.1D      69.60     124.30     117.1D    24a40      34t.20     139.10      30.00      30.00
Sub.Tctl:                                                                                                       49.37      92.51     530.44    131.91     426.46     557.82    495.19     7695.9     m.33       611.70     355.90     442.90           L
Fo.ig. C-_                                                                                                     19.07      30.41     90.44     143.21     129.66     156.52     102.59    32675      40DO       30.90      30.90      30.90            W
A,4v5d boeip ooinp..                                                                                            57.21      35.50     130.3     243.46     194.49     219.13     133.37    652.10     440.09      33.99      33.99      33.99
Loa   *Pooc                                                                                                     30.tO      54.10    440.00     653.70     296.93     401.30    33.60      256.2D     540.13     510.tO     510.00     50.00
A,ljwKod loa  -p..                                                                                              22.00      36.07    231.58    243.96      106.00     133.77     125.01     71.50      170.t2    161.33  152.63        145.00
Opnco.    C.
1..  swli..                                                                                                     14.10      21.50  U 4.10        104.60    126.70     136.00     155.10     119.10  U 4.90        55.0D
Local ad . A -g-                                                                                                45.20     113.90    206.00     209.70     312.90    237.50     4230       433.00     545.60     609.00     795.60     795.6D
Vehcle Op. & Hit4.                                                                                               2.40       6.10       5.55     44.00      4320       93.30     126.50    265.00     276.50     203.60      13.O     tO.00
Eqoip. Op. & MU.                                                                                                 0.10       0.20      7.70      11.13       6.60      22.60     40.50      27.10      71.90     15070      158.70     150.70
Mill Op. & Main.                                                                                                 0.10       0.20      7.70       11.13      6.60      22.60     40.50      27.10      71.95     153.70     151.00     107.60
Oe.. Of0.. -                                                                                                    17.30      31.30     110.00     130.40    171.30     173.10     1t9.13     1905.0    197.10     305.50     352.00     352.0D
PIacosics 1n2o 0.70                                                                                                        14.30     21.70      27.40 405.90          72.95      2t0.      75.13     114.90      97.20      65.00     152.00
Tool A Mi                                                                                                        3.50      19.40      11.00     45.40      20.J1      51.40     39.00     172.00     233.30      41.90      30.00      30.00
sb4owl                                                                                                          91.40     207.10     454.00    515.10     742.00     3Q.10    1093.40    1329.30    1596.10    1654.6D    1m2.30    1675.90
Foocip Cpo.                                                                                                     64.60     167.60    335.79     399.40     537.50     547.20    747.00     93.00    1229.50    12D9.30    1224.30    1257.20
Asoaod FPeipa cp..                                                                                              193.10    373.42     671.5t    679.66     406.25     766.06    971.10    1191.60    1352.45    14lt23    1346.73    1392.92
1.1 ocapl                                                                                                       26.13      39.50     116.21    165.30     204.50     314.95    346.40 3D36.3         366.60     365.30     40L.00     41 .70
A4vmod l1oal capo.                                                                                               19.14     26.33      a2.       60.63      73.04     104.97     111.74    101.91     107.92     101.47     107.37     104.69
Tow,!.    I a a 3cam, Co.            10.20      21.2      47.1       47.10      91.10     Itl.90 4l    .       29L.5      521A1    11462       1235.71    1179.78    122.4    141.24   1U97.13    208.9    1715.03    1640.72    106.5
BENIMI
Toetl Eoaa. oWo
of dpoaodam                           0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       1.30      7.70      24.30      117.91    211L39    520.39     476.S7    615.02      906.60     t65.70    1245.32    190.99    5097.29    423t.11   4301.05
Net iod                             -10.2      212.2     .47.1J     .47.10    .119.96    -73.0       .19.*0    174.24    .319.92   .45.37    -759.14        67S     477.34    475.4    -7S514        -176.9    229.2    2397.30    2O46.
XI:>
0.r 
0 >



GHANA OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE 11                      (Cnnnnued)
Enomic Res of Ronw: omnbine4 Pba. I h 11
(In mlia o.nd 1983 n.Mt fmt )
PHASE I                                1996       1997      1998       1999       2000       2001       2002       2003       2004       2005      2006       2007       2008       200n       2010       2011
2.wdmet  ed
V.hkks                               75.00      58.50      01.90      98.00     250.00      75.00      58.50     81.90      98.00     20.00       75.00      58.50      81.90     98.00     250.00     250.00
.menI Epn.                                               126.40     143.90     148.60     153.30     153.30     168.60     168.60     168.60    168.60     168.60     168.A0     168.50    168.W0     168.0D
sub-totl                             75.00      58.50     208.30     241.90     398.60     228.30     211.80    250.50     266.60     418.60    243.00      227.10     250.50    266.00     418.00     418.60
Foroiim op.                          63.75      49.73     177.06     205362     338.81     194.06     180.03     212.93     226.61    355.81     207.06     193.04     212.93    226.61     355.81     3s5.81
Adjp. FoeigpCoanp.                   39.60      29.95     102.94     116.17     185.14     102.13      91.85     105.41     112.18     160.27     96.12      87.74      96.78     103.00     161.73     161.73
Locelon.p.                           11.235       .78      31.25      36.29      59.79      34.25      31.77      37.58      39.99     62.79      36.54      34.07      37.58      39.99     62.79      62.79
Adjim. local omnpo.                   2.68       1.99       6.79       7.56      11.72       6.46       5.67      6.37        6.36      9.66       5.Q2       5.24       5.78       6.15      9.66       9.66
Eow          oat                     42.27      31.95     109.73     123.73     196.87     108.60      97.53     111.78     118.74    I20.97      9.74       92.98     102.56     109.16     271.39     171.39
OPaMikg Cede
Local Wan                           793.60     795.40     795.20     795.-o     794.50     79400      793.00    793.00     793.00
VWhici Op. & Moint                   so.00      79.90      79.3       79.70      79.50      78.50      78.10     76.70      773.20
Equip. Op. & M.im.                  115.N0     126.40     135.70     143.90     143.90     143.90     143.90     143.90     143.sn
Gan. offl3i colb                    140.00     140.00     140.00     140.00     140.00     140.00     140.00     140.00     140.00
sub-tal                           1131.40    1141.70    1150.70    1138.60    1137.90    1156.40    1155.00    1153.60    1852.00
Foign C npont                       137.90     143.10     147.65     151.65     151.45     150.45     150.05     148.65     847.10
Adjusmtd Foteign. Comp.              85.65      86.20      85.84      85.68      82.76      79.28      76.56      73.59     419.36
Loacl Ca,ponont                     993.50     998.60    1003.05    1006.95    1006.45    1005.95    1004.95    1004.95    1004.90
Adjwt.d Local Camp.                 236.55     226.95     218.05     200.78     197.34     189.33     179.46     170.33     164.74
E w Coea                            322.20     313.16     303.90     295.46     233.10     268.99     256.01     243.92     584.0      584.0     584.0      584.00     584.0      384.09    534.00      584.00
Pr   I & II E-  Cod                 364.47     345.11     413.63     419.19     476.97     377.58     3s3.54     355.70     702.83     754.03 8    3.83     677.08     666        693.25     755.49    755.49
BENEFITS
Totl Eo. vahe
ofpfoduction                       4156.82    4332.6    4208.72    4014.52    4058.37    3816.21    3592.25    3598.00    3604.04    3315.37    3315.37    3315.37    3315.37    3315.37    3315.37    3315.37
Net Befks                          3702.34    4048.55    3913.26    3734.41    37s9.38    3560.20    3348.33    3013.91    3019.95    2731.28    2731.28    2731.28    2731.28    2732.28    2731.28    2731.28
g*s#ES#i F.e¢ i0E      . . i .E .   1*1t
0>
fD  CD
(D>



GHANA OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PHASE II)
Economic Millgate Price of Palm Oil
(1983 Constant Terms)
C. 1. F. Tema             Port and          Transport to             Value at
Palm oil price       Palm Oil Price     Handling charges              Millgate             Millgate
Year        S $/m.t) 1/         (cedi/m.t) 2/        (cedi/m.t) 3/        (cedi/m.t) 4/             (cedi/m.t)
1982          448.55              15699.22                125.00                348.74             15475.48
1983          502.00              25100.00                125.00                408.10             24816.90
1984          596.70              62653.63                125.00                508.27             62270.36
1985          507.79              64489.58                500.00                610.67             64378.92
1986          430.64              77515.33               1012.00                916.37             77610.96
1987          392.10             112651.51               1012.00               1246.56            112416.95
1988          318.80              97552.10               1012.00               1495.87             97068.23
1989          257.11              97187.73               1012.00               1944.78             96254.95
1990          201.64              93579.73               1012.00               3094.14             91497.59
1991          230.90              98919.23               1012.00               3905.15             96026.08
1992          257.04             147024.18               5850.00               3905.15            148969.03
1993          239.47             216528.82               5850.00               3905.15            218473.67
1994          241.64             241354.44               5850.00               3905.15            243299.29
1995          236.51             241944.66               5850.00               3905.15            243889.51
1996          229.16             234430.98               5850.00               3905.15            236375.83
1997          221.70             249478.98               5850.00               3905.15            251423.84
1998          214.73             241632.84               6142.50               3905.15            243870.19
1999          207.85             233897.56               6449.63               3905.15            236442.04
2000          211.05             237493.12               6772.11               3905.15            240360.08
2001          204.26             229853.43               7110.71               3905.15            233059.00
2002           198.01            222816.77               7466.25               3905.15             226377.87
2003           198.01            222816.77               7839.56               3905.15             226751.18
2004           198.01            222816.77               8231.54               3905.15             227143.16
2005           180.15            202726.02               8643.11               3905.15             207463.99             X



GHANA OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Economic Millgate Price of Palm Kernels
(1983 Constant Terms)
Port &   Transp.     Value
Kernel    Freight              Marktg.    F.O.B.    F.O.B.   Handling    Millgate        at
Year            Price       cost     Insur.      Cost      Tema       Tema    Charges   to Tema   Millgate
(US $/m.t)  (US $/m.t) (US $/m.t) (US $/m.t) (US $/m.t)  (cedi/m.t)  (cedi/m.t)  (cedi/m.t)  (cedi/m.t)
1/                   2/         3/        4/                               5/
1982          272.65     115.00       0.95       2.73    153.97    5388.84     125.00    259.70    5004.14
1983          362.00     115.00       1.27       3.62    242.11   12105.65     125.00    259.70   11720.95
1984          405.63     115.00       1.42      4.06     285.16   29941.61     125.00    274.54   29542.07
1985          294.95     115.00       1.03      2.95     175.96   22347.34     125.00    408.10   21814.24
1986          250.13     115.00       0.88      2.50     131.76   23716.05     125.00    573.57   23017.49
1987          227.75     115.00       0.80      2.28     109.67   31509.48     125.00    779.84   30604.64                     L
1988          194.78     115.00       0.68       1.95     77.15   23608.13     125.00    935.66   22547.47
1989          184.38     115.00       0.65       1.84     66.90   25286.57     125.00    1216.14   23945.43
1990          128.63     115.00       0.45       1.29     11.89    5520.00     125.00    1963.33    3431.67
1991          149.85     115.00       0.52       1.50     32.83   14062.73     500.00    2572.51   10990.22
1992          150.05     115.00       0.53       1.50     33.02   18887.64     500.00    2572.51   15815.13
1993          148.06     115.00       0.52       1.48     31.06   28085.03     500.00    2572.51   25012.51
1994          152.62     115.00       0.53       1.53     35.56   35514.52     500.00    2572.51   32442.00
1995          156.43     115.00       0.55       1.56     39.32   40221.03     500.00    2572.51   37148.52
1996          151.57     115.00       0.53       1.52     34.52   35318.45     500.00    2572.51   32245.93
1997          146.64     115.00       0.51       1.47     29.66   33372.59     500.00    2572.51   30300.07
1998          142.02     115.00       0.50       1.42     25.11   28253.07     500.00    2572.51   25180.56
1999          137.48     115.00       0.48       1.37     20.62   23205.89     500.00    2572.51   20133.38
2000          163.56     115.00       0.57       1.64     46.35   52162.90     500.00    2572.51   49090.38
2001          158.30     115.00       0.55       1.58     41.16   46322.07     500.00    2572.51   43249.56
2002          153.46     115.00       0.54       1.53     36.38   40942.28     500.00    2572.51   37869.76
2003          153.46     115.00       0.54       1.53     36.38   40942.28     500.00    2572.51   37869.76                   ° t0
2004          153.46     115.00       0.54       1.53     36.38   40942.28     500.00    2572.51   37869.76
2005          158.08     115.00       0.55       1.58     40.95   46081.04     500.00    2572.51   43008.53



Annex 4B
37                                      Page 3 of 3
Footnotes to Palm Oil Prices Table
1/    Malaysian, 5% bulk, C.I.F. N.W. Europe.
2/    1982 to 1984 prices are taken from the SAR   Ghana Oil Palm Development Project
Phase II of May 22, 1984; and 1985 to 2011 are World Bank prices in 1983 terms
converted to cedis at prevailing exchange rates and multiplied by shadow exchange
factors: 1985-1989 = 1.3; and 1990-2011 = 1.1.
3/    Actual financial costs up to 1993 as compiled by the Ghana Shippers Council; and
projected for 1994-2011.
4/    Financial cost per ton for 177 km; economic cost is 70% of financial cost.
Footnotes to Palm Kernel Prices Table
1/    Nigerian, C.I.F. UK.
2/    0.35% of World Bank price.
3/    19% of World Bank price.
4/    Actual financial costs up to 1993 as compiled by the Ghana Shippers Council; and
projections for 1994-2011.
5/    Financial cost per ton for 177 km; economic cost is 70% of financial cost.



PRODUCTION FFB, PALM OIL AND PALM KERNEL
Y-f                      M1981      18        1983       1984      1985      1986      1987      1988       1989      1990      1991      12        1993      1994
Total FFB:                       3065.00   4455.00   7373.00  12430.00  27796.00   19497.00  26368.00  39188.00  42502.00  57246.00  56633.00  t0315.00  76200.00
Nuckus                                   4282.00   6383.00  10032.00  21168.00  14154.00  18687.00  28771.00  29796.00  37391.00  36700.00  47251.00  42000.00
ShbOg Ph. I & If                            173.00    990.00   2398.00   6628.00   5343.00   7681.00  10417.00  12706.00  19855.00  19933.00  33064.00  34200.00
Extraction Rate %:
Palinoil                                   18.00      23.50     23.80     22.90     20.60     23.10     24.10      22.10     22.20     22.10     22.30     22.30
Palm kemel                                  4.00      4.60      4.40       4.20      4.20      4.00      4.00      4.30      4.00       4.30      4.20      4.20
Production (m.t):
Palm Oil                                  801.90   1732.66   2958.34   6365.28   4016.38   6091.01   9444.31   9392.94  12708.61   12515.89  17910.25  16992.60
Palm Kernel                               178.20    339.16    546.92    1167.43    818.87   1054.72   1567.52   1827.59   2289.84   2435.22   3373.23   3200.40
Value of Production (million C):
PaIm Oil                                   19.90    107.89    190.45    494.02    451.51    591.24    909.06    859.43   1220.36   1864.48   3912.92   4134.29
Palm kemel                                   2.09     10.02     11.93     26.87      25.06     23.78     37.53      6.27     25.17     38.51      84.37    103.83
Ecoa. value (million C)             5.80     21.99    117.91    202.39    520.89    476.57    615.02    946.60    865.70   1245.52   1902.99   3997.29   4238.11
Yar                       1995      1996      1997       1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003       2004      2005      2006      2007      2008      2009      2010       2011
Total FFB (m.)        78000.00  78000.00  77000.00  77000.00  76000.00  74000.00  72000.00  70000.00  70000.00  70000.00  70000.00  70000.00  70000.00  70000.00  70000.00  70000.00  70000.00
Nuckuo             40000.00  40000.00  39000.00  39000.00  38000.00  36000.00  34000.00  32000.00  32000.00  32000.00  32000.00  32000.00  32000.00  32000.00  32000.00  32000.00  32000.00
Sh/Og Ph. I & 11      38000.00  38000.00  38000.00  38000.00  38000.00  38000.00  38000.00  38000.00  38000.00  38000.00  38000.00  38000.00  38000.00  38000.00  38000.00  38000.00  38000.00
Extraction Rate %:
Palm oi                22.00     22.00     22.00     22.00     22.00      22.00     22.00     22.00     22.00     22.00     22.00      22.00     22.00     22 00     22.00     22.00     22.00
PaLm kemel              4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00       4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00       4.00      4.00      4.00      4 00      4.00
Production (m.):
Palm Oil            17160.00  17160.00  16940.00  16940.00  16720.00  16280.00  15840.00  15400.00  15400.00  15400.00  15400.00  15400o00   15400.00  15400.00  15400.00  15400.00  15400.00
Palm Kemel           312q.00   3120.00   3080.00   3080.00   3040.00   2960.00   2880.00   2800.00   2800.00   2800.00   2800.00   2800.00   2800.00   2800.00   2800.00   2800.00   2800.00
Total value (million C)    4301.05   4156.82   4352.44   4208.72   4014.52   4058.37   3816.21   3592.25   3598.00   3604.04   3315.37   3315.37   3315.37   3315.37   3315.37   3315.37   3315.37
Palm Oi             4185.14   4056.21   4259.12   4131.16   3953.31   3913.06   3691.65   3486.22   3491.97   3498.00   3194.95   3194.95   3194.95   3194.95   3194.95   3194.95   3194,95
Palm kerncl            115.90    100.61     93.32     77.56     61.21     145.31    124.56    106.04    106.04    106.04    120.42    120.42    120.42    120.42    120.42    120.42    120.42
Econ. Value (millIoa C)   4301.05   4156.82   4352.44   4208.72   4014.52   4058.37   3816.21   3592.25   3598.00   3604.04   3315.37   3315.37   3315,37   3315.37   3315.37   3315.37   3315.37
->
tD XD
O n



