Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                  !        i  .
r --
Report No. P-3825-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 23.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR AN
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE II
May 22, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =  Cedis (/)
US$1               =  35.0 Cedis
1 Cedi             =  US$0.029
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ffb      fresh fruit bunch
GCMB     Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board
GOPDC    Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation
IRHO     Institut de Recherche pour 'Les Huiles et Oleagineux
MOA      Ministry of Agriculture
OPRC     Oil Palm Research Center



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
Oil Palm DeveloDment Project - Phase II
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Ghana
Amount:            IDA Credit of SDR 23.5 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Relending Terms:  A total of SDR 18.4 (about US$19.6 million) would be onlent
to the Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation (GOPDC) at
12.5 percent for 15 years, including 7 years of grace.  This
rate would be adjusted in line with any changes in the
interest rate charged by the Central Bank of Ghana for
agricultural sector loans. GOPDC in turn would onlend up to
US$1.2 million to outgrowers at 12.5 percent per annum for
13 years including 6 years of grace. The onlending rate to
outgrowers would be fixed at the prevailing Central Bank
rate at the time these loans are committed. The borrower
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project            The project would provide for consolidation of Phase I
Description:    development of the nucleus plantation and smallholder/
outgrower plantings. It would also increase palm oil
production through an additional 2,500 ha of outgrower
plantings. The main components include: vehicles,
equipment, and housing for nucleus estate and oil mill
employees; inputs, extension services, and credit to
smallholders/outgrowers; consultant services; training; and
development of an oil palm research program. There are no
unusual technical project risks and implementation problems
are expected to be minimal since the project would be based
on the institutions and experience of Phase I. However, the
project faces risks related to (a) the high rate of domestic
inflation which, if it continues, could lead to cost over-
runs, and (b) the availability of foreign exchange to meet
recurrent costs of imported farm inputs. However, in view
of satisfactory experience with the Government's contribu-
tions under Phase I, and assuming continued efforts by the
Government at containing inflation, these risks are sig-
nificantly reduced.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:                               -------US$ million-------
Local    Foreign    Total
1.  Project Hdqtrs. and Management              1.1        1.7        2.8
2.  Nucleus Plantation                          5.4        7.3       12.7
3.  Outgrowers/Smallholders Scheme               1.3       2.9        4.2
4.  Palm Oil Mill                               0.8        4.6        5.4
5.  Training, Consultancy and Research          0.2        2.7        2.9
Base Cost                                 8.8       19.2      28.0
Physical Contingencies                    0.5        0.9        1.4
Price Contingencies                       4.5        2.0        6.5
Total Cost                             1 .8     22.1       31-1
Financing Plan:
-------US$ million-------
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                                       2.9       22.1      25.0
GOPDC                                     9.1         -         9.1
Government                                1.3         _         1.3
Smallholder/Outgrowers                    0.5         -        0.5
Total                                  1.8       22.1          .
Estimated Disbursements:
-------------------US$ million-------------------
FY85     FY86      FY87      FY88      FY89     FY80
Annual              1.2        5.1       7.2       6.3      2.8       2.4
Cumulative          1.2        6.3      13.5     19.8      22.6      25.0
Rate of Return:    17%.  The ERR for combined Phases I and II includes all
costs incurred from 1977 onward and is 12%.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3724-GH dated May 22, 1984
Map: IBRD 16043



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR AN
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Devel-
opment Credit to the Republic of Ghana for the equivalent of SDR 23.5 million
(US$25.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an Oil Palm
Development Project - Phase II. SDR 18.4 million (US$19.6 million equivalent)
of the proceeds of the Credit would be onlent to the Ghana Oil Palm Develop-
ment Corporation (GOPDC) at 12.5 percent for 15 years including 7 years of
grace. GOPDC would in turn onlend up to US$1.2 million equivalent to out-
growers at 12.5 percent per annum for 13 years including 6 years of grace.
SDR 3.0 million (US$3.2 million equivalent) of the Credit would be made
available to GOPDC as part of the Government equity contribution. Of the
remaining amount, the Government would make available SDR 1.9 million (US$2.0
million equivalent) to the Oil Palm Research Center (OPRC) in the form of a
grant and SDR 0.2 million (US$0.2 million equivalent) would be made available
to the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) for studies relating to future
agriculture projects in Ghana.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "Ghana:  Policies and Program for Adjust-
ment" was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1983 (4702-GH).
Its principal findings are summarized in this section. Basic economic data
and selected social indicators are summarized in Annex I.
3.        Ghana once enjoyed a fairly high standard of living compared with
most other West African nations. However, a declining gross national income
has combined with high population growth (estimated at about 3 percent a year)
to cause a substantial erosion in real per capita income. The average real
income in 1982 is estimated at US$360, which represents a decline by about
one-third from what it was a decade ago. The rate of unemployment is quite
high and underemployment is widespread. Almost half the population of about
12 million is now estimated to live in absolute poverty. The country's basic-
needs indicators, once the best in Africa, are no longer much better than
those of other Sub-Sahara African countries with comparable per capita in-
comes. Modern health services are available to only about a third of the
people and fewer in rural areas; only 35 percent have access to safe water.
Although the education system is well established and elementary education has
been free since 1962, 50 percent of adult men and 70 percent of adult women
have had no formal education.



- 2-
Basic Structural Characteristics
4.       Ghana is comparatively well endowed rith natural and human resources.
The country has valuable mineral deposits, particularly gold, but also dia-
monds, bauxite and manganese, and offshore oil. There is further potential
f3r hydro power generation. Ghana has a relatively good supply of land
suitable for growing cereals and starchy staples and possesses considerable
fishing and forestry resources.
5.       Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting for over
half of GD?.  Only 11 percent of the land area is cultivated, half of which is
under cocoa.  Nearly 70 percent of the population derive an income from
agriculture or related activities. The basic staple foods are maize, rice,
mi-Llet, yam, cassava, and plantain but, except for cassava, yields of these
crops have stagnated in recent years. Food production in 1980 was only 88
percent of that in 1975. Prolonged droughts in 1975-77 and 1982-83, inade-
quate support services, poor transport facilities, and lack of fertilizers and
other inputs contributed to the decline. In the last five years, Ghana has
had to import 10 to 15 percent of its cereal consumption (mainly rice and
maize).
6.       Ghana's economy is highly dependent on primary products for
exports. Cocoa (of which Ghana is the world's third largest producer) still
contributes about 60 percent of total export earnings, although production has
been declining. Timber is also an important export item. Mining is still
Ghana's second largest foreign exchange earner, contributing 10 to 15 percent
,f the total, although productiorn has been declining over the past two
decades.  Efforts to diversify the export base have not made much headway.
7.       Manufacturing production and services currently account for 7.5 and
41 percent of GDP, respectively.  Xanufacturing--including textiles, steel,
tires, oil refining and simple consumer goods--contributed 9 percent of GDP in
1980 (down from 14 percent in 1971) and provided full- or part-time employment
to about 12 percent of the labor force.  Manufacturing in Ghana remains
inefficient and heavily dependent on imported inputs, however.  As a result,
the goal of import substitution through industrialization has met little
success and imposed a serious bhirdern on the economy.
8.       Ghana used to import all of its petroleum, mostly in the form of
crude oil. which is refined domestically and used chiefly as a source of fuel
for the transport sector.  Recently, some oil c'eposits have been discovered
and commercial exploitation has commenced.  Production of crude is now about
1,200 barrels per day, equivalent to 7 percent of the country's requirements.
Hydroelectric power meets most of Ghana's non-transport commercial energy
needs, although it has been drastically affected by the drought in recent
years (see para. 15).



-3-
Recent Economic Developments
9.       Throughout the 1970s, Ghana's economy was subject to gross misman-
agement. Large budgetary deficits, necessitated partly by the need to support
a sprawling, inefficient public sector, led to a marked acceleratLon in
domestic inflation. Given the reluctance to move the exchange rate, the fixed
nominal rate became grossly overvalued, shifting relative incentives away from
exports into import trade, and more specifically from cocoa, Ghana's main
export, into subsistence food production. The resulting deterioration in
export performance, combined with a growing disenchantment on the part of aid
donors with Ghana's policy performance, caused a perpetual foreign exchange
crisis that pushed successive Governments into increasingly restrictive import
regimes. Thus, what was once an economy with ample imports became starved of
the main fuel for its growth. The erosion of the tax base due to declining
exports and imports, and the related decline in economic activity forced
severe cutbacks in Government Operations and Maintenance and capital expendi-
tures.  Thus, foreign exchange shortages and declining public expenditures
contributed to the marked deterioration in what was once a fairly well
developed economic and social infrastructure. This in turn further reduced
the country's productive capacity.
10.      A tendency to respond to shortages with controls and rationing
worsened the problem; extensive price controls and widespread resort to
administrative price setting eroded the incentives to produce and save,
diminished the capacity of public sector entities to maintain the level and
quality of services, and created a vast parallel black market with its related
evils of corruption, smuggling, and tax evasion. Declining real wages,
political instability and reduced economic opportunities led talented and
skilled Ghanaians to leave the country, depriving the country of scarce
managerial, administrative and technical skills.
11.      To add to all its difficulties, Ghana was subjected in the early
years of the present decade to three additional problems. First, a prolonged
and severe drought that has created the worst food shortages since Indepen-
dence. Second, a sharp deterioration in external terms of trade following the
increase in petroleum import prices, and a softening in prices of Ghara's
major exports (cocoa, gold and manganese). Third, the sudden and unexpected
return of over one million Ghanaians from Nigeria, placing a severe strain on
the food and unemployment situation. The cumulative effect of this downward
economic spiral and these most recent "shocks" to the system can be seen in
the trends in key economic indicators between 1970 and 1982: per capita real
income declined by 30 percent; import volumes fell by a third; real export
earnings fell 52 percent; domestic savings and investment declined from 12 and
14 percent of GDP respectively in 1970 to almost insignificant levels;
inflation averaged 44 percent per annum over the period.
A Program of Reforms
12.      The Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC) which came to power
under the leadership of Flt. Lt. Rawlings on December 31, 1981, established a
National Economic Review Committee early in 1982 to review the country's
economic difficulties and to develop an adjustment program that would check



- 4L -
this downward economic spiral and pave the way for national economic
recovery. An IMF staff team was invited to Ghana in July 1982. Following
further discussions with Fund and Bank staff in the winter of 1982/83, a
program of far-reaching reforms was announced in April 1983 which is being
supported by an SDR 23845 million Standby Arrangement covering a 12-month
period through August 2, 1984. The reforms focussed on:
(i)    establishing a more realistic exchange rate, which resulted in an
exchange rate movement from .2.75 = US$1.00 to 035.00 = US$1.00
within one year;
(ii)    establishing realistic relative prices and incomes in the context of
the new exchange rate. Cocoa producer prices were raised by 67
percent to p20,000 per ton on May 1, 1983 and a further increase to
¢30,000 per tort has been announced for the current crop year
(1984/85). In the case of all administered prices of imported goods
and services, or inputs, a full pass through of the higher cedi cost
following the exchange rate movement; was effected except in the case
of petroleum Wfhere a temporary subsidy, currently in the process of
being phased out, was permitted. Pub-Lic sector salaries and wages,
and statutory minimum wages were raised to offset in part the drastic
erosion in real incomes. Public utilities announced substantial
tariff adjustments to more realistic levels;
(iii)    increasing domestic resource mobilization, by an improved public
savings effort, and by improving the environment for private savings
and investment. In October 1983, all interest rates were raised by
35-40 percent, or by 3-5 percentage points; and
'iv)    rehabilitation programs for key sectors designed to ensure a prompt
supply side response to the planned improvement in incentives. These
programs have been assisted by three IDA-financed import sector
credits, a Reconstruction Import Credit for SDR 37 million and two
credits for Export Rehabilitation and T.A. for SDR 88 million.
13.      Following the announcement of this program, the Bank, in consultation
with the Government, decided to reactivate the Ghana Consultative Group, which
had lain dormant for 13 years.  There was a good response to this initiative,
and the Group met in Paris in November I1983 and was broad'Ly supportive of the
Government's program. Aid indications for 1984 provided at the meeting
totalled US$150 million. This, together with the IMF Standby and a CFF
drawing of SDR 120.5 million, was designed to help finance:
(i)    a substantial increase in imports, which would in turn stimulate
domestic production and exports, and launch Ghana towards economic
recovery; and
(ii)    a reduction in Ghana's substantial past payments arrears, (US$532
million at end December 1983).



-5-
The Economy's Response
14.      While it is still too early to make a judgement on the economy since
the reforms were introduced, there has clearly been a major improvement in the
management of the economy, despite the persistent drought and severe foreign
exchange shortages. Through March 1984, the Government had not only met but
in many cases exceeded the Fund's performance criteria. Fiscal discipline has
been maintained through fairly tough expenditure cuts in the context of a
major revenue shortfall; conservative policies have been followed on private
sector credit and foreign currency borrowings. Moreover, the Government has
met its commitments to the Fund and the Bank on policy reforms, continuing to
pursue an active exchange rate policy, improve producer incentives for cocoa
producers, and ensure a full pass through to domestic prices of the higher
cost in cedis of imported goods and services. Preliminary data for 1983,
however, suggests that the response of the economy to the reform program has
been sluggish.
15.      Production Trends:  Preliminary estimates show a modest 1 percent
growth in GDP in 1983 due in the main to a severe drought; which both depressed
agricultural output and cocoa exports, and through its impact on hydroelectric
power output from the Volta Lake, depressed output in industry and other
sectors. Foreign exchange allocation and aid disbursemer.t mechanisms, and
inadequate budget allocations proved obstacles to the much needed growth in
imports of raw materials, spares and machinery, curtailing production in all
sectors of the economy, particularly in the first half of 1983. The only sub-
sector that was a clear exception to this trend was timber, which responded
strongly to the higher cedi unit values following the exchange rate movement,
with a 55 percent increase in output and exports. With the rains setting in,
the authorities expect a stronger performance by the economy in 1984.
However, much will depend on measures to improve the system of foreign
exchange allocations.
16.      Fiscal and Monetary Developments:  Preliminary data on the budgetary
outturn for 1983 reveals a 30 percent shortfall in revenues over budget
estimates, reflecting the lower volumes of international trade than originally
anticipated and the consequent downturn in economic activity. The Government
responded to this by cutting back recurrent spending by 11 percent and capital
spending by 47 percent. It was thus able to reduce the overall deficit as a
percentage of expenditures from 43.1 in 1982 to 32.1 in 1983, and to hold
recourse to the banking system within the limits specified under the Fund
program. The expansion of net domestic assets during 1983 was also contained
within the program limits, primarily because commercial banks proved extremely
reluctant to increase margins for imports to reflect the very large (over 1000
percent) cedi depreciation. A contributory factor was the slow increase in
cocoa crop financing on account of a delayed start to the 1983/84 crop. Thus,
broad money expansion at 49 percent was pretty much in line with what was
projected for the year.
17.      Prices:  Inflation, at 120 percent in 1983 was substantially above
target (50 percent). Almost all of it occurred during the first half of 1983,
and reflected the severe food shortages caused by the drought and the
unanticipated influx of one million refugees from Nigeria. There was a
seasonal deceleration in inflation in the second half of 1983.



- 6 -
18.      Balance of Payments:  The current account deficit in the balance of
payments during 1983 (defined to exclude official transfers), at US$420
million, was substantially below origiaal projections.  Imports rose much more
slowly than planned, both because of a decline in petroleum imports and a
slower expansion than originally assumed in non-petroleum imports.  The
latter, nevertheless, were more than double 1982 levels.  The drought
adversely affected cocoa exports; gold and mining exports fell; timber exports
were the only major exception to this general downward trend. The overall
balance of payments was negative to a mnuch larger extent than envisaged in the
IMF program (-US$213 million as against -US$141 million) despite the lower
current account deficit suggesting a substantial shortfall in non-monetary
capital receipts.  This negative balance was financed entirely through
transactions with the Fund (US$258 milLion) which were also used to reduce by
US$43.5 millin the outstanding 2payments arrears.  Gross reserves fell by SDR
80 million, to SDR 122 million or abou-t 10 weeks of imports.
l9.      Much of the recovery that was expected in 1983 and did not take
place, is now projected to take place J.n 1984.  GDP growth will continue to be
constrained by the drought, and resultant power shortages; nevertheless, the
authorities anticipate major changes in the budgetary ricture, with revenues
expected to more than quadruple in 1984 over 1982 levels and expenditures to
more than treble over the same period. On the revenue side this reflects the
anticipated recovery in trade and activity levels, the full year impact of a
much depreciated exchange rate and other adjustments of' relative prices, and
additional resource mobilization efforts. On the expenLditure side, the
substantial increase in the value of the import content; of budgetary expendi-
tures, the large wage increases, as also an ambitious development expenditure
program, play a primary role. With foreign financing expected to increase,
and recourse to the banking system expected to decline, broad money growth is
expected to be contained at only 14 percent. There will be a resultant
deceleration in inflation to an annual rate of 30 percent. The balance of
payment is expected to benefit from improved export prices and increased
volumes for non-cocoa exports. A 30 percent expansion in non-oil petroleum
imports is projected. With oil imports also expected to expand by 41 percent
to bring them closer to more normal cor.sumption levels, total imports are
projected to rise by a third to US$878 million.  The current account deficit
will increase to US$524 million.  However, thce authori-ties anticipate a very
large increase in non-monetary capital receipts which will help lower the
overall deficit to US$76 million.
20.      Beyond the short-term, if the Government is able to maintain a more
realistic exchange rate and pricing policies, restrain the large size of
public-sector deficits, make a concerted drive to expand production and
exports, and gradually substitute market forces for admninistrative alloca-
tions, it should be feasible to achieve rates of real growth in excess of
4 percent a year (or one percent per capita) by the end of the rehabilitation
program. The attainment of even such a modest rate of growth after two or
three years would be a major turnaround. It presupposes that Ghana's own
efforts will be supported by a relatively large flow of external assistance.
Ghana's needs for external capital over the next few years are substantial and
will call for a major effort on the part of the donor community.  Unless
concessional assistance is forthcoming, the possibility of successful stabi-
lization and economic rehabilitation will be seriously diminished.



- 7-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
21.      An agreement on a long-term rescheduling of Ghana's medium-term ex-
ternal debt was concluded in March 1974. Under this agreement, all payments
due after February 1, 1972, in respect of pre-1966 debt obligations, are to
be paid over a period of 28 years beginning 1982, after a grace period of
10 years, at 2-1/2 percent per annum. Ghana's medium- and long-term external
public debt outstanding and disbursed at end-1983 is estimated at about
US$1.1 billion, representing less than 4 percent of GDP. The debt service
ratio of public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term debt is esti-
mated at around 10.7 peroent of exports of goods and non-factor services in
1982. However, it has risen sharply to 26.3 percent in 1983 on account of
both a further decline in export earnings and the expiration date of the grace
period on the rescheduled debt.  Arrears on Ghana's short-term debt went from
US$245 million in 1977 to US$601 million by the end of April 1983.  The
arrears are now being reduced in a phased manner under the economic recovery
program.  By December 1983, they declined to around US$532 million, a rate of
reduction consistent with the IMF requirement. A further net reduction of
US$90 million is planned for 1984.
22.      Ghana must rely on official sources for most of the external capital
required to support its developmnent program; relatively little of its medium-
and long-term borrowing is on commercial terms.  Consequently, Bank loans and
IDA credits disbursed together represented about 22 percent of the country's
estimated public external debt at end-1982. Service payments on these loans
and credits accounted for 25 percent of the country's external debt service,
but they are projected to decline to 17 percent of external debt service by
1987 as other sources of lending revive. Total. net transfers over the last
decade averaged US$25 to US$30 million per annum but were only US$7 million in
1982.  Bank Group commitments on a per capita basis amounted to only US$1.76
during 1977-82. Lending dropped to less than a project a year during this
period before increasing sharply in 1983 to support the economic reform program.
23.      Ghana's extremely difficult economic situation and its vulnerability
to fluctuations in cocoa export earnings make it desirable that future debt
service obligations be kept as low as possible. Consequently, Ghana will have
to depend on IDA resources for Bank Group borrowing over the next few years.
This is also consistent with Ghana's relatively low per capita income. At the
same time, to help ensure an adequate flow of foreign exchange into the
country and support the country's resource mobilization efforts, it would be
appropriate to finance a signilficant portion of local costs of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
24.      Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made 10 loans totalling US$190.5 million and 24 credits
totalling US$379-3 million. Included in the 24 credits is one project in
which Ghana is a beneficiary of a Bank-financed regional clinker project
covering three countries (Togo, Ivory Coast and Ghana). There are no IFC
investments. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credils as of March 311 1984.



- 8 -
25.      Power generation and distribution represents the largest share of
past commitments (22.3 percent) and the sector has been assisted by three
power generation projects and three power distribution projects. Bank Group
involvement in the sector started in 1962 with the Volta River project which
included the construction of the Akosombo dam, the country's first hydro power
plant (912 MW) and the transmission grid. The project also helped to create
the Volta River Authority (VRA), the power generating company.  Subsequent
Bank involvement in power generation includec the Volta River expansion
project in 1968 and Kporig Hydroelectric proje!ct in 1977. In power distribu-
tion three Bank Group operations (in 1968, 1971 and 1977) helped to establish
and expand a low voltage distribution network and create the Electricity
Corporation of Ghana (ECG), the power distribution company. Cofinancing was a
major aspect in lending to the power sector and involved a number of donor
agencies including the Arab Funds, European Investment Bank, the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), the European Development Fund, the
Development Loan Fund (USA), US Exim Bank, and the Export Credit Guarantee
Department (UK). Alongside power generation and distribution, agriculture has
been a major focus of Bank Group lending, receiving 18.5 percent of the Bank
Group's lending to Ghana.  The lending program in agriculture has covered
fisheries (1969), Eastern Region cocoa (1970), sugar rehabilitation (1973),
livestock development (1974), Ashanti Rejgion cocoa (1975), oil palm (1975),
Upper Region agricultural development (1976) and Volta Region agricultural
development (1980).  The main thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations in
agriculture has been to assist the country in achieving greater self-
sufficiency in agricultural production, particularly food and raw materials
for agro industries, and rehabilitating the cocoa subsector. Earlier Bank
Group projects in the sector were directed towards development of specific
subsectors with emphasis on smallholder development. Starting in the late
1970s, more emphasis has been given to a. broad-based integrated agricultural
developmient. Two such projects are currently under implementation, one in the
Upper Region and the other in the Volta Region, which aim at increasing
agricultural production, farm incomes and the standard of living of
smallholders by introducing improved farming technology, providing farm
support services and developing rural infrast-ucture. Major donor agencies
which provided cofinancing in agriculture sec;or operations were The Overseas
Development Administration (U.K.), the International Fund for Agricultural
Development, and the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa. The Bank
Group is also executing a UNDP-financed technical assistance project designed
to strengthen the management and operation of the Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board.
26.      Transportation is the third most imporrtant sector in The Bank Group's
program in Ghana (16.9 percent of commitments).  Projects financed in the
sector include three road projects (in 1973, 1975 and 1980) and a railway
rehabilitation project approved in 1981. The road projects focussed initially
on rehabilitation and reconstruction of part cf the country's main trunk road
system.  In light of rapid deterioration in the entire road sector, prin-
cipally due to acute shortages of importfed inputs, later emphasis was placed
on emergency maintenance to keep roads o-en for agricultural and export
traffic.  An ongoing railway project which is cofinanced with the African
Development Bank (ADB) seeks to remove the present transport bottleneck to
Ohana's traditional exports (cocoa, timber and minerals), for the movement of
whichb railways have a comparative advantage. A telecommunications project



- 9 -
currently under implementation aims at improving and expanding domestic
telephone services in Accra and major urban centers.  In the field of water
supply two projects (in 1969 and 1974) have helped increase and improve the
water supply in the Accra/Tema metropolitan area and adjacent rural areas.
The first project helped expand the water supply distribution network and
sewerage system in the Accra/Tema area and the second project which was
cofinanced with ADB and CIDA included construction of a reservoir at Weija, a
treatment plant and a transmission pipeline. A third water supply project was
approved by the Executive Directors in March 1983 to help carry out emergency
repairs and maintenance on the pipeline from Kpong which presently provides
two thirds of the Accra water supply. The project also includes substaritial
technical assistance to strengthen the management and operations of t'ne Ghana
Water and Sewerage Corporation and to increase its capacity for improving
water supply, especially in the rural areas. In the manufacturing sector, two
DFC operations (in 1975 and 1979) have financed investment projects in
manufacturing and agro-industry undertaken by small and medium enterprises.
The main emphasis of Bank Group lending in this sector has been to encourage
enterprises using local raw materials and which are capable of contributing to
foreign exchange earnings and savings. A related objective for the DFC
projects was to strengthen the institutional capacity of the National Invest-
ment Bank, Ghana's main development finance institution. The second DFC
project, which includes cofinancing under an EEC Special Action Credit, is
providing foreign exchange working capital to help increase capacity utiliza-
tion of priority enterprises, in addition to long-term capital investment. In
the energy sector, a project aimed at strengthening Ghana's technical capacity
to accelerate petroleum exploration was approved in May 1983. A second
project in the sector, approved in March 1984, will provide technical assis-
tance and finance immediate requirements for rehabilitat0on of Ghana's sole
refinery.
27.      The serious economic difficulties which the country has experienced
in recent years have adversely affected implementation of a number of Bank
Group-financed projects. The dwindling revenue base of the Government has
constrained its ability to finance the local costs of projects, and the lack
of foreign exchange has resulted in a severe shortage of imported materials
and spare parts required for the operation and maintenance of completed
projects; the mass exodus of qualified Ghanaians to neighboring countries, and
demoralization, absenteeism and low productivity among the remaining work
force have also adversely affected project performance. The unusuially adverse
conditions surrounding Bank Group financed projects and their generally poor
performance have been described in greater detail in the Project Performance
Audit Reports. Overall, the main conclusion of the reports was that macro-
economic and sectoral policy constraints were the major factors responsible
for poor performance of the audited projects. Because of delays experienced
in the implementation of a number of Bank Group projects in Ghana, the dis-
bursement performance is behind appraisal estimates. Annual gross disburse-
ments over the 4-year period FY80-83 have averaged about 21 percent of out-
standing loan/credit commitments and as of March 31, 1984, US$243.0 million
remained undisbursed. The Bank Group has held periodic implementation reviews
with the Government to identify steps which could be taken by borrowers and
the Bank Group to accelerate disbursement on ongoing loans and credits.



1r C
28.      The principal objectives which will guide the formulation of the
Bank's assistance program to Ghana are:  (a) -to support the adoption of poli-
cies designed to reverse the downward trend in the economy and return it to a
path of growth; (b) to help rehabilitate and  mprrove canacity utilization of
the country's existing assets; (c) to stimule1te agricultural and industrial
production, particularly for export promotion and efficient import substitu-
tion; and (d) to improve the country's essentiaal infrastructure (transport,
water, petroleum, power) and relieve major bott lenecks to increased produc-
tion.  The Bank Group a'lso plans a substantial increase in economic and sector
work to broaden and deepen understanding of the constraints which are likely
to impede the recovery process, to provide direction to our future lending and
the design of project components.  In both lending and economic and sector
work, attention will be given to ways of strengthening the institutions res-
ponsible for economic management and development spending.  The Export Rehabi-
litation Technical Assistance Project, a-nproved in January 1984, is designed
to support the Government's programn to strengthen the institutions responsible
for Ghana's major export industries.
29..     In response to Ghana's economic recovery program, the Executive
Directors approved a US$40 million Reconstruction Import Credit in June 1983
and a US$76 million Export Rehabili-Ltationi Project and a US$17.1 million Export
Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project were approved in January 1984.  In
addition to these projects, a more broadIy-based program of rehabilitation of
the country's economic assets will be required.  In the near term IDA would
support a program to rebuild the network of trunk roads ircluding a major
bridge reconstruction component, and provide assistance to rehabilitate the
power distribution system.  In agriculture, further assistance to the develop-
ment of cocoa is envisaged given the overwhelming importance of this crop, at
least in the short term, for foreign exchange earnings.  In energy, through a
Petroleum Refinery Rehabiiitation and Technical: Assistance Credit approved in
March 1984, assistance will be provided to hel-o reduce the cost of petroleum
products required by the eountry.  In brief, projects with major rehabilita-
tion components are Likely- to absorb the bulk of Bank Group resouirces for the
next few years as these are likely to show the hi:ghest benefits and quickest
returns.  For the outer years, the Bank will begin to examine prospects for
new rroductive investments including support for education, health and other
mportant activities in the social sectors,  The extent to which the Bank
Group can provide financial and technical assistance t1. support such a broad-
based program w-ll be conditioned upon the performance of the Government in
carrying through its economic recovery program.
30,      The Government of Ghana has requested the Bank Group to help muster
external assistance through cofinancing and more generally in the context of
strengthened aid coordination.  At the request of the Government, the Bank
Group convened a meeting of the Ghana Consultative Group on November 23 and
24, 19893.  The participants of the meeting have endorsed the Government's
economic recovery program, and it is expected that the foreign exchange re-
quirements for 1984 under the program will be substantially met by the donors'
contribution.



- 11 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
31.      Agriculture, including livestock, fisheries and forestry, contributes
about 51 percent of GDP and employs about 57 percent of the labor force. The
sector satisfies the bulk of Ghana's food requirements, the major crops being
cassava, maize, plantain, sorghum, millet and groundnuts. Agricultural pro-
duction is almost entirely in the hands of smallholders and agricultural tech-
nology is very rudimentary. Cocoa is Ghana's most important single crop
covering some 50 percent of all cultivated land and presently accounting for
about 60 percent of Ghana's merchandise export earnings.
Recent Sectoral Performance
)N.      The performance of the agricultural sector has been poor since the
early 1960s, but it deteriorated sharply since the mid-1970s. Cocoa output
has declined drastically with production in 1982/83 hitting a low of 160,000
tons, which is less than half of the average 400,000 tons in the 60S and early
70s. The Government recently tripled the cocoa producer price in an effort to
stem the decline in cocoa production. Through the technical assistance pro-
vided to the Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board (GCMB) by UNDP and the IDA financed
Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project, the Government is also
trying to address the institutional problems affecting cocoa.
33.      Data concerning production of food crops are of poor quality.  Never-
theless, indications are that food production has steadily declined. It is
estimated that on the whole the average annual growth rate of all food pro-
duction between 1969-1971 and 1977-79 was 0.1 percent, while population grew
at about 3 percent per annum. Food imports grew from 43,000 tons in 1973 to
73,000 tons in 1979 and wholesale and consumer prices of major food staples
rose sharply in the same period as demand outstripped domestic supply. Prices
between 1980 and 1983 have risen steeply, indicating widespread deterioration
in the supply situation.
Government Policy
34.      Government policy pronouncements have in the past recognized the
paramount importance of agricultural development in Ghana and programs have
been designed to promote this development. "Operation Feed Yourself" was one
of the main plans in the economic program of the military regime of the early
1970s and agriculture figured prominently in the Five-Year Development Plan
for the period between 1976 and 1981. The objectives of the programs were "to
obtain self-sufficiency in food and raw materials for agro-based industries,
as well as to increase traditional and non-traditional agricultural exports to
earn foreign exchange". The Five-Year Plan also recognized the key role
played by the small farmer. In spite of the many programs, however, results
have not been impressive mainly because in practice Government strategy for
the sector emphasized mechanization of large-scale farms and a large public
sector role in agricultural operations. The objective of this was to achieve
a rapid increase in agricultural production. However, the parastatals have



- 12 -
not emerged as efficient production units ancd mechanized farming has faced
difficult technical problems under Ghanaian conditions. At the same time
smallholders have not received adequate support services and incentives.
35.      The Government has initiated action in recent months to improve
agricultural production. Producer prices for cocoa have been increased;
responsibilities and functions of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), where
warranted, are being decentralized; private trading in produce marketing is
being encouraged; private companies have been established for input supply and
seed production; and smallholder development is being promoted through a
number of agricultural clevelopment projects.
Sectoral Constraints
36.      Agricultural development in Ghana still faces a number of con-
straints.  The major short-term ones are the deterioration of the roads and
transport services and unavailability of inputs due to lack of foreign
exchange. Public organizations such as the GCMB and the Ghana Seed Company
find it difficult to organize their programs for the supply of inputs and crop
evacuation.  Agricultural extension services have become increasingly immobi-
lized. An uncertain petrol supply, lack of spaere parts for vehicles, and
poorly maintained roads, coupled with acute shortage of tires, make it
extremely difficult for middlemen to reach many of the producing areas.  The
resulting uncertainty and restricted marketing opportunities in turn have
greatly influenced the pattern of production, reducing geographic speciali-
zation and shifting production towards areas close to major urban centers.
Agricultural production is also severely constrained by inadequate producer
prices for export and industrial crops, the limited capacity for policy, project
and program implementation and, until recently, an overvalued exchange rate.
37.      An extensive system of input subsidies, covering fertilizers, spray-
ers, pesticides and mechanization services, has resulted in a substantial
burden on the budget without significantly improving agricultural production.
Training, supervision and logistic support of lower level extension staff in
MOA are inadequate. Moreover, decentralization of MOA operations to the
regional level is not proceeding within a well-defined framework. Powers,
responsibilities and relationship of MOA Accra and regional staff have not yet
been clearly formulated.
The Oil Palm Subsector
38.      Palm oil has been for decades an item of basic diet of Ghanaians and
has also been widely usedI industrially for making soap, margarine and cooking
fat.  An export crop at the turn of the century, it has not been exported for
years as the result of the competition from emerging lower-cost producer
countries in Southeast Asia and the increasing attractiveness of cocoa as an
alternative crop.
39.      Oil palm is grown mainly in the Western and Eastern Regions of
Southern Ghana. Sources of oil palm in Ghana are wild groves, small private
plantings and large-scale plantations. Figures relating to acreage under
cultivation and yields are not reliable except for large-scale plantations,



- 13 -
but it is estimated that about 80,000 ha are under oil palm in Ghana, includ-
ing about 57,000 ha of wild groves, 17,400 ha of large-scale plantations and
5,100 ha of small plantings. 1/
40.      The main thrust of oil palm development in Ghana has been through the
establishment of four large-scale plantations: State Farms Corporation (SFC)
with about 6,900 ha planted; Benso (Unilever) with about 4,000 ha planted, of
which about 900 ha are already in bearing; Twifo (Commonwealth Development
Corporation) with a planting target of 6,300 ha but of which only 3,200 ha
have so far been achieved due to land acquisition problems; and Ghana Oil Palm
Development Corporation (GOPDC), the IDA-assisted project, with 5,130 ha
planted at end of 1983 out of a target of about 5,200 ha, including 1,350 ha
under smallholders/outgrowers. Total current production of palm oil for SFC,
Benso and GOPDC is about 5,000 tons. Combined present domestic production of
palm oil in Ghana from large-scale plantations, small private plantings and
wild groves is estimated at about 26,000 tons, to a large extent consumed as
edible oil. Due to the loss of wild palm trees through aging and felling, oil
palm production from natural palmeries is expected to decrease in the coming
years, while output from small private holdings is expected to increase,
spurred by attractive palm oil prices. According to FAO's most conservative
demand projections for palm oil in Ghana, domestic demand is estimated to be
90,000 tons in 1990, increasing to 110,000 tons in the year 2000. These
estimates are considerably in excess of projected domestic production from all
sources including GOPDC Phase I and II Projects (70,00O tons in 1990 and
84,000 tons in 2000), thus resulting in a projected import gap of 20,000 and
26,000 tons in 1990 and 2000, respectively.
Bank Group's Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
41.      Since 1969 the Bank Group has been involved in eight lending opera-
tions to Ghana's agricultural sector.  Total sector lending since 1969 amounts
to US$105.5 million. With the exception of the first phase of the Oil Palm
Project, the performance of ongoing and completed projects has been poor, to a
great extent a result of Ghana's macroeconomic problems. A Fisheries Project
(Cr. 163-GH, 1969, US$1.3 million) did not reach its targets due in part to
problems in management and project design. Its economic rate of return was
10 percent compared to 50 percent at appraisal. The Eastern Region Cocoa
Project (Cr. 205-GH, 1970, US$8.5 million) achieved most of its physical
targets but with high time and cost overruns and with very little farmer
participation because of low producer prices for cocoa (ERR was 12.2 percent,
compared with 26 percent at appraisal).
42.      Similar problems have faced the Ashanti Cocoa Project (Ln. 1181-GH,
1975, US$14 million) despite good Ghanaian management. About 91 percent of
the planting target was achieved by the loan closing date of December 1982,
four years behind schedule. The draft project completion report estimates an
ERR of 13 percent compared with 21 peraent at appraisal. A Sugar Rehabili-
tation Project (Cr. 354-GH, 1972, US$15.6 million) was adversely affected by
1/   These figures are based on the 1970 census for agriculture updated
to 1983.



- 14 -
droughts, official indifference and foreign exchange shortages, and ended in
failure in 1978. The rate of return was negative. A Livestock Development
Project (Cr. 500-GH, 1974, US$2.0 mill:ion) suffered because of management and
financial problems. Its objectives were not achieved resulting in a negative
ERR although the financial rate of return was 12 percent. The country's first
experiment with integrated agriculture, the Upper Region Agricultural Devel-
opment Project (Ln. 1291-T-GH, 1976, US$21.0 million) suffered from poor
management, bureaucratic inertia and serious shortages of local funds, materi-
als and basic commodities. In order to ensure financing of the rinderpest
campaign and import of fertilizers from the remaining portion of the loan, the
loan closing date has been extended from December 31, 1982 to September 30,
1984. Implementation of the Volta Reg-on Agricultural Development Project
(Cr. 1009-GH, 1980, US$29.5 million) is in its early stages following a year's
delay in credit effectiveness due to slow Government action in fulfilling the
conditions. The project has suffered from a number of problems and an in-
depth review is now in progress.
43.      In addition to the projects mentioned above, a multi-sectoral Export
Rehabilitation Project (ERP) was recently approved. The project includes
cocoa, timber and gold mining components and provides for inputs, equipment
and materials for the rehabilitation of these sub-sectors.  Substantial tech-
nical assistance will also be provided to the institutions responsible for
implementing these components through an ERP Technical Assistance Project.
Experience With the Oil Palm Project - Phase I
44.      The Phase I Oil Palm Development Project (Cr. 531-GH, 1975, US$13.6
million) is the most successful agricultural project in Ghana in terms of
meeting its objectives; the PCR estimates an ERR of 12 percent compared to
about 16 percent at appraisal.  The first phase Oil Palm Development Project
became effective in June 1976. To implement the project the Government
established the Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation (GOPDC) in 1975 which
was empowered and structured to act as a commercial entity. GOPDC is
functioning well on a technical and professional basis. The initial
objectives of the project were to establish: (a) a 4,000 ha nucleus
plantation; (b) 1,200 ha of outgrower plantirngs involving about 240 farmers;
(c) a 15-ton fresh fruit bunch (ffb) per hour palm oil mill; (d) staff and
outgrower training program; (e) field trials with oil palm; and (f) 10 miles
of roads within the project area.
45.      Although planting progress on the nucleus estate was slow at first
due to equipment breakdowns, lack of qualified mechanical staff and the un-
availability of spares in the country, the project's progress to date can be
considered satisfactory.  By end-1983, close to 3,800 ha (95 percent of
target) of the nucleus estate and 1,350 ha (112 percent of target) of small-
holders/outgrowers were planted. The palm oil mill was completed in September
1982, a month ahead of schedule, and processing operations have begun. A
large part of the training program for senior staff has been implemented and
roads and staff houses have been constrlcted.  The IDA credit is expected to
be fully disbursed by June 1984. The project has been managed since its
inception by a consulting firm whose performance has been good.



- 15 -
46.      The project is now at an important stage in its development.  Plant-
ings from Phase I have been completed and harvesting started. A well orga-
nized fruit collection and payment system for smallholders and outgrowers now
has to be implemented. Since previously trained senior staff were let go
after a review of their performance, additional training is required. Given
the country's foreign exchange constraints, external assistance is still
required to finance management, vehicles, and equipment and inputs needed to
complete development begun in Phase I.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.      The proposed project will be the second phase of the Ghana Oil Palm
Development Project (see paras. 44-46). Initial preparation was carried out
in October 1980 by a joint FAO/CP and IDA mission. A Project Preparatijn
Facility Advance of US$857,000 was granted in May 1983 to help prepare the
project. The project was originally appraised in 1981 and then held in
abeyance due to the poor macroeconomic situation in Ghana. The project was
reappraised in October 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington in April/
May 1984; the Ghana Delegation was headed by Mrs. Dye-Sharp, Acting Principal
Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, and included representatives from --he
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, Ministry of Justice, and the Ghana
Oil Palm Development Corporation. Significant events and special conditions
are summarized in Annex III.
Objectives
48.      The project would aim at further improvement of oil palm productivity
and production started b, the Phase I Oil Palm Development Project, and
increase foreign exchange savings through import substitution and foreign
exchange earnings from palm kernel export.
Description
49.      The prcject would comprise:  (a) technical services and credit faci-
lities to develop 2,500 ha of new outgrower plantirgs; (b) expansion of the
existing palm oil mill from '5 to 25t ffb/hr; (c) management services to
GOPDC; (d) additional vehicles, equipment and workers' housing to service
Phase I nucleus estate and smallholder/outgrower plantings; (e) short-term
consultants to prepare and supervise GOPDC on-the-job training programs, plus
provision for training visits abroad by GOPDC personnel; (f) extension of
buildings, vehicles, equipment, materials, overseas training and consultants
for the Oil Palm Research Center (OPRC); and (g) short-term consultants to
assist in surveys and studies of future projects and a completion report for
the Phase II project.
50.      Outgrower Scheme.  As in Phase I, the Ghana Oil Palm Development
Corporation would be responsible for the new outgrower scheme, including loan
appraisal, procurement and delivery of inputs and planting materials, exten-
sion services, supervision, credit and ffb collection. Outgrowers will be
selected from the area around the GOPDC concession area, along access roads to



- 1GI -
be improved and constructed under Phase II and within a 25 km radius of the
nucleus estate. Phase I outgrowers would be encouraged to extend their oil
palm plantings under Phase II. Outgrower loans would be approved as under
Phase I by a loan committee of senior staff of the smallholder/outgrowe!-
section, GOPDC's credit officer and representatives of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and the Agricultural Development Bank.  Assurances have been obt4ained
regarding the composition of the :Loan committee (Section 3.04(a) of the draft
Project Agreement).
51.      Credit would be supplied to participating outgrowers in the form of
(a) 100 percent of planting material, fertilizers and other inputs in kind
charged at cost, and (b) cash for up to 80 percent of estimated labor require-
ments based on prevailing wege rates for rural unskilled labor.  GOPDC would
be responsible for fruit collection and, as under Phase I, outgrowers would
enter into a loan agreement with GOPDC which would include a commitment to
sell to GOPDC all ffb from 'rees planted with the assistance of the loan for
processing at the central mill; lcoans wcould be recovered from the pro3eeds of
such sales.
52.      The project would also improve about 125 km of existing access roads
and construct 75 km of new access roads to serve outgrowers. The roads would
be constructed and maintained by the roads unit of 'OPDC. Road construction
and maintenance equwipment would be financ :d by the project.
Palm Oil Mill
53.      The project would provide housing, vehicles and equipment for trans-
porting the palm oil, extending the mill capacity and equipping the mill work-
shop. The present mill capacity of 15 tons ffb/hr will be adequate for the
expected production up to 1987, by which time the capacity will be extended to
25 tons ffb/hr. Consultants will be employed to design the extension, assist
with the tendering procedures, and monitor the construction which should be
completed in time for the 1988 harvest.
54.      Management Services.  The project would continue to finance manage-
ment (25 man-months) by an internationally recognized firm experienced in oil
palm plantation and oil mill management as under Phase I (para. 61). The
practical training program described in para. 56 would assist in a smooth
transfer of management to local staff. In addition, housing, vehicles and
office equipment would be provided for the additional local staff required
under Phase II.
55.      Nucleus Estate and Smallholder/Outgrower Plantings.  Harvesting of
estate and smallholder/outgrower plantings began on a limited scale in late
1982. Additional equipment (trucks, nets, harvesting tools, spare parts,
etc.) required for this operation would be financed under the project. Houses
for about 600 workers would be built. The provision of permanent housing on
the estate is expected to reduce considerably the current high level of
absenteeism, which is due mainly to the fact that many of the workers live in
the outlying areas, some at considerable distance from the estate. A firm of
local architects and engineers would be retained during Phase II to design
lower-cost project houses and to supervise their construction. GOPDC would



submit the design to IDA, and IDA approval would be a condition of disburse-
ment (Para. 4(c) of Schedule I to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The housing compound would be serviced by facilities (hospital, school, store,
etc.), some of which have already been built under Phase I.
56.      Training.  In-service staff training would continue under Phase II
with special emphasis on providing key senior staff with the necessary mana-
gerial, financial and technical skills to ensure the eventual takeover by
Ghanaians of GOPDC's operations. For this purpose, training consultants (20
man-months) in such fields as management and finance, plantation and factory
operations will be hired to prepare and supervise on-the-job training pro-
grams. On-site training by these consultants as well as 62 man-months of
training visits abroad by GOPDC staff to well-established industrial planta-
tions would be financed under the project. To ensure retention of trained
staff, the Government has agreed to allow GOPDC freedom in setting salary
levels (Section 3.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
57.      Research Center.  Ghana's oil palm expansion program is presently
based on imported seeds and poorly selected local seeds. To achieve an effec-
tive breeding and seed production program, the project would renovate and
enlarge installation and equipment at the Oil Palm Research Center (OPRC).
The project would provide equipment, materials and imported seed for the
artificial pollination, seed preparation, and storage and bunch analysis
units. The project would also finance extension of laboratory buildings and
equipment as well as vehicles and field equipment. It is expected that
Ghanaians will be available for vacant positions at OPRC, although the exodus
of trained people due to the country's economic problems presents a danger.
Eighteen man-months of training abroad would be provided for the professional
staff and technicians.
58.      Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that the Government
would draw up, in consultation with Institut de Recherche pour les Huiles et
Oleagineux (IRHO), a five-year research and station work program, the finan-
cing of which would be guaranteed by Government. Assistance would be given in
drawing up and monitoring this program with 8 man-months of consultants.
Acceptability of the program and its financing would be a condition for
disbursing funds, other than funds for consultant services, for OPRC (para.
4(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
59.      Studies.  The project would also provide short-term consulting
services to assist GOPDC in conducting an outgrower survey, preparing the
Phase II project completion report and a Phase III feasibility study; and to
enable the Government to make general agricultural studies for future
projects.
60.      Altogether, the project would provide up to 49 man-months of short-
term consultant services. Most consultants are likely to be recruited inter-
nationally but efforts would be made to encourage participation by local con-
sultants, consulting firms or other qualified institutions where possible.
Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that consultants appointed would
have qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of appointment
satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).



- l1E -
Project Execution
61.      The Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation would be responsible for
carrying out all phases of the project except for the Oil Palm Research
Center's programs and the general agricultura:l studies of future projects.
The GOPDC's Interim Management Committee would continue, as under Phase I, to
formulate policy in accordance with the Corporation's commercial objectives.
Day-to-day management will be carried out by a recognized firm experienced in
oil palm management. The firm will provide the project's senior staff,
namely: managing director, agricultural manager, mill manager/engineer,
workshop manager/engineer, and financial controller. The Government is
favorably inclined to retain the services of the present management firm.  It
would be a condition of effectivenes that GOPDC had entered into a contract
with a firm which is experienced in oil palm plantation management and mill
operations, acceptable to IDA, on. terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (Sec-
tion 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Further, agreement has
been obtained at negotiations that any changes in the senior staff appoint-
ments of GOPDC would be acceptable to IDA and that it would be consulted on
any changes in the composition of the Interim Management Committee (Section
3.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
62.      Total project costs over the fivre-year development period 1984-88 are
estimated at US$35.9 million, of which US$22-1 million or 62 percent would be
foreign exchange costs. Project costs include an estimated 061.3 million
(about US$2.0 million) of identifiELble taxes a:nd duties on fuel, lubricants
and other locally purchasable items but exclude all other taxes and duties.
Base costs are estimated using prices for goods and services obtained during
appraisal updated to April 1984. IProject; costs include: (a) physical con-
tingencies equal to 10 percent of base costs for civil works and 5 percent for
all other items except salaries and wages; (b) price contingencies for all
local costs at 30 percent for 1984, 20 percent for 1985 and 10 percent there-
after; and (c) price contingencies for foreign costs at 3.5 percent for 1984,
8 percent for 1985 and 9 percent for 1986-88. Total physical and price con-
tingencies are equivalent to 22 percent of total costs.
63.      The proposed IDA Credit of US$25 mill-on would finance 70 percent of
total project costs, net of taxes and duties, to cover US$22.1 million, or 100
percent, of foreign costs and US$2.9 million, or 21 percent, of local costs.
GOPDC would finance from its own earnings some US$9.1 million of the project's
local costs representing 25.3 percent of total costs and 65.9 percent of local
costs. This financing would be required to cover most of the local costs of
the first year of GOPDC's construction program. In the event GOPDC would not,
for some reason, be in a position to finance its estimated share of project
costs, the Government would increase its eontribution to GOPDC's equity by the
required amount. If GOPDC foreign exchange earnings fall short of its
requirement Government would provide the necessary foreign exchange to enable
GOPDC to import operating materials required for the mill, estate and small-
holder/outgrower plantings (Section 3,01(c) of the draft Development Credit



- 1 9 -
Agreement). The remaining local costs of US$0.5 million would be financed by
smallholders/outgrowers as their share of farm labor requirements. This
amount is about 1.4 percent of total project costs.
64.      IDA funds for OPRC estimated at US$2.0 million would be passed on to
the Research Center by the Government as regular budget support. In order to
maintain GOPDC's debt to equity ratio at 2:1, IDA funds would be passed on to
GOPDC as debt and equity. Equity transfers would be disbursed first. US$3.2
million (096.0 million) of the IDA funds would be Government equity in GOPDC
to be used for training consultancy, management fees and international staff
salaries. In addition, the Government would provide, from its own resources
039.0 million (US$1.3 million) as equity. IDA funds totalling US$19.6 million
(0588.0 million) would be onlent by the Government to GOPDC with interest at
12.5 percent per annum for 15 years with 7 years of grace for principal repay-
ment for farm inputs, housing, furniture, vehicles and equipment. This on-
lending rate is the prevailing rate for the agricultural sector since October
1983 and was established by the Bank of Ghana after consultation with the
IMF. Although this rate is negative in real terms, much of the current
inflation represents "corrective inflation" resulting from long overdue
adjustments in the exchange rate and the establishment of more realistic
relative prices. Under an IMF program, a reduction in the rate of inflation
from 120 percent in 1983 to 40 percent in 1984 and 20 percent in 1985 is
envisaged. The Government is also committed to the establishment of positive
real interest rates in the medium term, and current negotiations with the IMF
for a second Standby will include a review of interest rate policy with a view
to moving in this direction. Adjustments in the interests rates applying to
the agricultural sector will be made in the context of the changes planned in
the overall interest rate structure. Agreement has been reached at negotia-
tions that interest rates charged on outgrower loans should be reviewed
annually between the Government and IDA (Section 3.04(c) of the draft Project
Agreement).  The execution of a subsidiary financing agreement covering equity
and loan arrangements would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Any subsequent change in the
subsidiary agreement between Government and GOPDC would be subject to IDA's
agreement (Section 3.01(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). GOPDC
would onlend up to US$1.2 million to outgrowers at 12.5 percent per annum for
13 years including 6 years of grace. The onlending rate to outgrowers would
be fixed at the prevailing Central Bank rate at the time these loans are
committed.



- 20 -
Procurement
65.      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
(in US$ million)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                ICB    LCB    Other      NA       Cost
Vehicles, Equipment, Spare         10.0    7.3      7.3      --       24.6
Parts, Furniture and            (9.7)  (1.3)   (2.9)              (13.9)
Building Materials
Farm Inputs                         4.0    --       3.2      --        7.2
(3.8)   __     (3.2)               (7.0)
Management and Consultancy          --     --       2.9      --        2.9
Services, and Training            --            (2.9)               (2.9)
Assistance to Ministry              --     --       0.3      --        0.3
of Agriculture                    --            (0.3)               (0.3)
PPF Refinancing                     --     --       --       0.9       0.9
_____             (0.9)    (0-9)
Total                             .14.0    7.3    13.7                35.9
IDA                               (13.5)  (1.3)   (9.3)    (0.9)   (25.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA.
Contracts for furniture, vehicles, and equipment valued at US$200,000 or more,
with an aggregate value of about US$5.5 million, would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB)., For contracts between US$50,000 and
US$200,000 up to an aggregate value of US$1.1 million, local competitive
bidding would be used, and for contracts of less than US$50,000 competitive
shopping would be employed. Items wouldi be bulked to permit optimum use of
competitive bidding. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed 15
percent preference, or the applicable duty, whichever is lower, when comparing
bids with those of foreign manufacturers.  Local competitive bidding would be
employed for GOPDC civil works contracts for workers' housing with an aggre-
gate value of US$11.9 million, including contingencies. Major farm inputs,
such as fertilizers and other chemicals, grouped in packages of over
US$200,000, with an aggregate value of US$4.0 million, would be procured
through ICB.  Other farm inputs, including seeds, some chemicals, wire
netting, nursery materials, research materials, miscellaneous farm tools and
spare parts for vehicles and equipment valued in aggregate at US$3.2 million,
would be procured locally through competitive shopping. The services of
consultants and internationally recruiteid staff and overseas training, costing



- 21 -
US$3.4 million, would be obtained in accordance with IDA guidelines. US$0.9
million would refinance the PPF advance. A special account of US$0.7 million
would be established as a revolving fund to cover eligible expenditures under
all categories. Establishment of the special account on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Section
6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). To ensure prompt procure-
ment, GOPDC would be able to hire, as under Phase I, procurement agents on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (Section 3.02(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
66.      Disbursement.  Disbursement of the IDA Credit of US$25.0 million
would be on the basis of: 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported
building materials for housing and 70 percent of local expenditures;
70 percent of expenditures for civil works other than housing; 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for vehicles, equipment, spare parts, furniture, fertili-
zers, seeds, wire netting, chemicals, tools, and nursery materials, and
70 percent of local expenditures; 100 percent of salaries and allowances of
consultants, and training abroad of local staff; and refinancing of PPF of
US$0.9 million.
67.      Disbursements would be fully documented except for the following
items which would be disbursed against statements of expenditures: (a) civil
works by force account; (b) civil works under contracts of less than US$50,000
equivalent; (c) contracts for equipment, spare parts and other materials
valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent; and (d) payments of less than
US$10,000 equivalent related to training abroad, or to small consultants'
contracts. Supporting documents for disbursements against the above will be
retained at a central location and made available to supervision missions.
The minimum application size for reimbursement would be US$10,000 equivalent.
Project Budget and Auditing
68.      GOPDC would continue to prepare annual budgets and estimates of
quarterly cash requirements. Moreover, at the time the annual work program
and budget are prepared, GOPDC would prepare a procurement program for the
coming year to be submitted along with the annual budget to the Government for
approval and to IDA for information. On the basis of the annual budget and
procurement program, the Government would (a) make appropriate arrangements to
release to GOPDC all necessary funds quarterly in advance; and (b) allocate
the necessary foreign exchange along the lines of the approved procurement
program (Section 3.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The project
would also continue to maintain account and annual audit practices, including
a separate opinion on amounts drawn under statements of expenditure, as under
Phase I.
Marketing and Prices
69.      By 1995, the combined Phases I and II ffb production is expected to
reach its peak with an annual average production of about 70,350 tons. Some
60 percent of this total would come from the nucleus estate, and the remainder
from smallholders and outgrowers. During the peak production period, combined
Phases I and II production would be about 14,100 tons of palm oil and about



- 22 -
2,800 tons of kernels. It is expected that all the palm oil production of
GOPDC would be absorbed by the domestic market while palm oil kernels would be
exported. Palm oil would be marketed through established wholesalers and
retailers, while GOPDC would make arrangemerts for the export of palm kernel
through a recognized commodity broker.
70.      A Pricing Committee has been established by GOPDC and guidelines set
for the pricing formula for purchase of ffb from smallholders/outgrowers.
According to these guidelines ffb price would be based on ex-mill palm oil and
palm kernel prices (which would corres]pond to open market prices since Govern-
ment has recently decontrolled palm oi:L prices) taking into account ffb trans-
port costs, mill processing costs, overheads and profit margin. However, IDA
has emphasized that, in order to ensure continued maximum returns to out-
growers, mill processing costs and overheads should not be allowed to exceed a
certain percentage of ex-mill price of oil and kernels with due allowance for
low volume of ffb throughput in early years and age and quality of ffb which
affects the oil extraction ratio. Since the pricing formula for ffb and palm
oil and kernels has been agreed among GOPDC, the Government and IDA during
Phase I, assurances have been obtained at negotiations for Phase II to the
effect that GOPDC pricing policy would at all times be acceptable to the
Government and IDA (Section 3.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
71.      The principal direct benefit from thae Phase II project would be the
additional annual production of 3,750t of paLm oil and 750t of palm kernels at
full development in 1996. At prcojected 1990 world market prices in 1981
constant terms, net foreign exchange savings and earnings from this additional
production would be about US$2 million per year after deducting the cost of
incremental imported materials. The project would directly benefit 500-620
outgrower families plus about 80C other famiLies earning incomes from employ-
ment in the nucleus estate. With an average of about 7 persons per family,
benefits will flow directly to over 9,000 people. Farm incomes would be sub-
stantially increased; net return to outgrowers would be about ¢500 per manday
compared to the prevailing market wage rate of 040 per manday for rural un-
skilled labor. With increases in farm incomes, better standards of living and
improved nutrition can be expected. Incremental on-farm employment at full
development would be about 100,000 man-days per year.
72.      Through technical assistance and training, the project would improve
the capability of Ghanaian nationals to operate and manage an oil palm devel-
opment project. The information to be collected on outgrowers and the feasi-
bility of small rural oil mills would provide valuable guidance in designing
suitable production/processing systems for future outgrower development in
Ghana. Assistance to OPRC would increase the! availability of improved plant-
ing materials to oil palm growers in Ghana, thereby saving foreign exchange
presently spent on imported seeds. Research at OPRC would also lead to im-
provement in oil palm cultivation practices and consequent increase in yields
of oil palm plantations in the country.
73.      Considering that the proposed -project is a follow-on to the Phase I
project, the economic rate of return (E]RR) for the combined Phases I and II



- 23 -
projects is estimated at 12 percent. The ERR on Phase II alone -- after
deducting those costs related to Phase I development -- is estimated at 17
percent. The financial rate of return to GOPDC on combined Phases I and II is
estimated at 27 percent.
74.      There are no unusual technical project risks.  Since the project
would be based on the institutions and experience of Phase I, implementation
problems are expected to be minimal. However, the project faces risks related
to (a) the high domestic inflation rate, which, if it continues, could lead to
economic distortions, cost overruns and difficulties on the part of the
Government in meeting its financial contribution, and (b) the availability of
foreign exchange to meet recurrent costs of imported farm inputs. However, in
view of satisfactory experience with Government contributions under Phase I,
and assuming the Government's efforts at containing inflation continue, no
major financial problems are expected for Phase II.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Ghana
and IDA, the draft Project Agreement between IDA and the Ghana Oil Palm
Development Corporation, as well as the recommendations of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
76.      In addition to the features of the Development Credit Agreement and
Project Agreement which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III
of Annex III, special conditions of credit effectiveness would be: (a) that
GOPDC shall have entered into a contract with a firm experienced in oil palm
plantation and oil mill operations (para. 61); (b) that the subsidiary agree-
ment referred to in para. 64 has been executed; and (c) that the special
account referred to in para. 65 has been opened (Section 6.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Conditions of disbursement would be IDA
approval of (a) the design for workers' housing (para. 55), and (b) the IRHO
research and station work program (para. 58).
77.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 22, 1984



- 24 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A B L E  3A
GHANA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GHANA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENI'              LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
196G-b      1970"-  ESTIMATS-         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA      AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM)
TOTAL                                 238.5        238.5        23B.5
AGRICULTURAL                           65.4         61.4         62.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     190.0        260.0        400.0               254.6                      1147.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        104.0        266.0       26E.0                 79.8                       724.2
POPULATION AND) VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    6804.0         8614.0      11830.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          23.3         29.1         36.6                19.5                        28.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 24.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                  85.4
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          28.5         36.1        48.2                 29.5                        56.5
PER SQ. KM. ACRI. LAND              104.0       140.2        184.6                 94.1                      131.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Y)
0-14 YRS                            44.5         45.8        46.8                 45.0                       45.9
15-64 YRS                            52.9         51.6        50.5                 52.1                        51.2
65 AND ABOVE                          2.6          2.7         2.7                  2.9                        2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 4.4          2.4          2.9                 2.8                         2.8
URBAN                                 9.2          4.6          5.0                 6.2                         5.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           50.2         50.2         49,3               47.9                        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           20.3         16.9        13.4                 19.2                        15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.4          3.4          3,4                 3.2                         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..          8.3         33.5/c
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..          1.5          4.oTd                .
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          93.0        101.0         72.0                87.8                        95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         92.0         98.0         88.0                88.0                        97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             43.0         51.0        44.0                 51.2                       56.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           13.0         17.0        15.0/c               18.1                        17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            30.6         24.6         18.9                25.7                        23.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          44.8         49.9         54.5                47.4                        51.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         142.9        121.6       101.0                126.5                       117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ,          35.0        35.0/e               24.7                        25.4
URBAN                                   .         86.0        86.07.               56.8                        70.5
RURAL                                  .          14.0        14.07e               18.3                        12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         55.0        56.3/e               28.1
URBAN                                  ..         92.0        95.07o               65.7
RURAL                                             40.0        4 0, 07;i            21.9
POPLULATION PER PHYSICIAN           21600.0     12910.0/      7630.0              27420.6                    12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              5430.0/f    1070.O7g      780.0               3456.2                     2292.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1290.0        760.0       660.0/c             1183.2                     1075.4
URBAN                               300.0/f      770.0       830. o7T             380.6                      402.3
RURAL                             47590.07f      890.0       73O.O7&             3177.5                     3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          4.7           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  . .          ' ''
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
_________________________  _________________-- ______ __________-- _-- _______-- ______- _____-- ___________- ____-- __________-______-



- 25 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                             Page  2  of  5
GHANA                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GHANA                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT             LOWi INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960/b      1973/  ESTIMATE/b        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA     AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    38.0        64.0         69.0               63.9                       97.2
MALE                     52.0        73.0        77.0                73.6                      103.1
FEMALF.                 25.0         54.0        60.0                51.6                       88.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     5.0        14.0        36.0                12.5                       17.2
MALE                     9.0         21.0        44.0                16.7                       23.5
FEMALE                   3.0          8.0        27.0                 8.1                       14.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)           12.6        23.3          3.5/d              7.3                        5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             31.0        30.0        27.0/d              46.4                       42.9
SECONDARY                           16. 0L      17.0         i9.07d             25.1                       23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)               27.0/h      30.2           ..               36.5                       37.1
CONSNPE ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            3.0         4.6          6.8/c              3.3                       18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          42.7        81.6        162.6               45.3                       97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              0.1/i       1.9          5.0                2.2                       18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              30.0        48.2         30.5                4.7                       18.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        1.6         2.2          0.4                1.0                        0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           2919.0      3421.(       4396.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    42.6        42.1        41.1                34.5                       36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               64.0        58.0         53.0               76.9                       56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.0        17.0        20.0                 9.8                       17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.9        39.7         37.2               40.9                       37.0
MALE                                50.0        46.6         44.0               53.0                       47.1
FEMALE                              36.0        33.0         30.4               28.9                       27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1         1.2          1.3                1.2                        1.3
INC(ME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 57% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..           ..          ..                  .
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEIIOLDS            ..          ..           ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       307.0/d            165.9                      534.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..       15o.07d              87.4                      255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 , .          '        156.0/d            100.8                      491.5
RURAL                                 .1. ..               I30.07               64.6                      188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                 .,          ..           ..               39.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..           ..               69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estlmite" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1978; /e 1975; /f 1962; LI Registered, not all practicing in the country; /h Age 6 and over; /i 1964;
/  Public Schools only.
May 1983



- 26-                                                          ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
2n_F ItItltt OF SOIdIL itNDiCTat
aaytbl   eeaea  the hekidtnaitd daiaiaiit  anl anntaed.   h.d..                         actarito   < caliolntig isdate    hedtea,aen                           ,aeI ..iia
decibe orders at c-gnttade, indicate ar1Nd, and rdatra   eti   aa   atrccehienanrae
ret'h,re,ace gn,aI_ye.
edalhaed.  s'ke.                                                                               . elnadipHyiir-yaaeindtida  rnaer  tpanc
- ath   arecacareeiIiglad   araadInlf acr                   tiii                       ehtnaeuailata     eie                      aia   nnriylat
it   a   gi   eo                                                                     airaa,j asn  Fra      acina    tcddh  a'bei  peenn
ta   rne   enne-       olciad  ino  dneeiii  i th-ia   -1911.0,                               rarai..r....                              ILaier-ias.1
ME  into . sddii   aa                                                                              aaairjneie   t   til   ra,adnrl-Pplta    ntl
ti,1970, ead  9919     a                                                                          h   iiot  r   hsiin             seia ea dnaatding pe,Inilel   ataia
caeae'nr   irde.   ari      -atiole . heaeanr, ircird   health and ,
mu,  non, and 1991 doas '                                                             noharhicyincie  inrIrd    rt   rnoigeea   hapieo  edd                 aa
IIId I.     (1979-El                               ~~~~~~~hooblia... nnlal aa   annh    a   iirledtcniyncne 
rncaat  bnarid  tciio                                                                          caaaao    rnti   r   niddal   ae bl ti-.                         -,.f,
dot.SLtnra ,ica,-ri_naic1                                                                                  l'Is- 1dindid  h.r.1h nahecrt nsa's-, l d,,,,
lithn Faciatat  rercni a  anati    cona a  dnhn tainai a'calaaln
naal-   a'I,ta   ygodsaadirn  cela   r                          rlh                             h _Irnolad  ar  natoIro   aa'e
plannitg petaneanr.  tachrar9ic  ad  hnco ie    aaanaa*iOaaairidai  d   i   narii  in ii-tina na-.Jt -breds                                                    d
aoaaIant a   `arln'en   rhiiohod0a  taaran   nttr.                                          th rarat,.i frha,  r crr  d _l ia _ rotte
iiatiaaarn  caealataar-Iaaeesa di'aar   -arclcin  nlar  laindradId
-tnah    iri, rate  ......a  aty nhs deat  rant  sadab    -hegidhr
This ia ochinash mu  atiar tertil intranas  ad Pitied rnralirenn  aaaara ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      d
doniaeath    nrisanai  ecart  nanecntrrdaiiacas ,he                   rnoatccrciaati.ritrdtaaa-aasoaca,thPariiai
eehdanaiaaraoriiarirooaarl.                     hoinanrjorclaarctlaeaaaeynearsma                                                                -b-renae  at .,.erIa
riastatasatarozoaid.eeaiecaaod..a.r.nliralnlaoa...an;anairaiaertlrcgehl
PI_ninaa   h               cirairI he deer lOOt and rho. rat  at derI~racr  caalao   a   itra~irtsa                                                  sniaain   a
feiinartnaoirniniro.ccariaalnncesicadaaenrlan   .aa                                                                                                ...ee   It ren-en
trt  tainat  ariiin  a  erhd    Terie   hretr anr Ianmr ia-ri Icau   mhlac                                                        i  the-_   ...i.ia aI hiiaa
cataleniin ieeeiihr Ioah..                                                                  iotrarerrl-rti.a.adt.ae-.t-....a.h;  eridr
F      baatrnnsn                                                                                dairrnarca   oaa  mmn    tanaeciet  aaaiia
ts   n   a       l-ra    arointe   qatkisin   10hraolatpero   tea ,nrnaa.a  na  ennaraaiennin   a
taeah  e         ftC   I.., anI i   an                                                           aasrcla   t1  a   yatroacrepneraaas
reo.dorclaadadotariare   aarrlcr    sdorricaiad
P.c;ni,n7Illdtaa.d-....laralor......araraa'-arhln                                                                                                           .actro.   n
na isaaae  iatr   tarao-OihrnI-lyar)   nhn-aa15                                                  nirinnrri.raanatahrhndataeoiharnn   rard
iAraanol.sad   etired'.ii yaraandaaerda    coneaagt aiidrrn                            r.iyrld-.arnona   naar6crlriiniiia
pacriatlar;  taO,  tOt, arc Intl dana.  ~ ~ ~       ~           ~          ~          ~        ~         t tcnn-trI   -iudet  aiaadi
Foralsianhrialtianenrtrenn-taialcaaara   graac'retraa?  nananil-  trssndaaarhrrdra'iaansdicldla rracar yattirhonaiiharar
cost datalanirn  tat lniD-hi, mOd-b, and  itl-ti.        aiatardaah  'iaeio~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
racisia  aioh  at  Ic-cna   -arat- _-a A _orahrasa   na                                di  aar)y)'~)anj-irarraan                            Oeara   r   ntda
yrpaieiine  tarbat-it  -ihl-0,ad~    `bu                                                       trtrH     irloaa  'ta    ahdo af;) dihne inrat
arada 9mm   ite  rat arrsanil - aarai un  hitns Fe nihacard  ci ala
der laeidn -tbt   it,-p-di anI
pactetau   9i,  97,  ndlii  at.                                                            ar  ae- n iata  char ....iarn  ceaaoerroabaara,hoaea
ier     96rrarcaiaraeiaiaieaeicntpo)t  n-frii                                            ain-iarireatsrcaadnaaonil-ltro                                ocIneetrai
Prainnadc.                                                                                      -1 irista,        artn       adiaal-r ear   a Iiradcota
roir Mi. ndtt6t I        1nI6af7cea.01 1rar-d cntalc.                                                                                                   dre    ran       I n Irdi.n
Inde  atyardrin  arirr  an--0in   Iin-c1 1-   ;-- -'-a      m h--d  fIa.-                                           lr-i>cra  ar    Lrarcrteri    l  r 2a  ,Ia d-a
rate.    ~ ~ ~ ~      -~       br        -....I km hoar
Feec.acaienflmciratcoianaealionaarncrrocaininc.ncelranraied   atra              tratoacaroarna  liharearda) - crarroarooty artian  nersara, dnbioadnaarce
apIrt -, en   hne   nanl.io   cpinnOdaia   Fee,-i-a,rai--no;9i,-1   sad- int_dta
qaaaetieaatdintad  prcieeig,atdnateia   rtiata.oniotcan-aall-naneocrrraeataaiho re
itqinnena  setea ic         ....yrI  hocdda  th Parca   td   trcre                        einrrcTnta      ot  troi   a t,tnei '  aah    r
acaata  an  aslnhnatl ddagetaran tral  enccecne  iry aiiht.        iOraa  e prcetag   attani llarirni;  910  190 ed  it ato
ego  ta  rt  hahahaarnat  araerla,  nd  ilaiadiO  rarnn  ar  act         ladetr  Icrreitl- lhrntar   irairnt,rarnnaria ,  araarenin
00~Eu hcs'adbslih-i   90  r    ii  ea                                                                  n   lar,ia.anrt    aa1c  aaoa   tnaihttna   ah
ret~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~1`1Il roiaeai   iaai'noeecndol-rtoiainrtorpa                  a   n    iftO     , oa...    LI   -          _    ',
tenY'                                                                                       -k-i tte    e   a.hnspi  a   rdi   o  rda   nc.Prircra   anlrrn.     a ,nb  atd- I te.ae-Fenir.a.... o
tanirerasto  al  aierro   otilohd   r  ht an-il ta  -Ii'traaain   e   r   rpaa  naii,ai,tdiel   oa                                                     co
olieaho   atngrro  taoaineerco  aa'cdlianrtiaiaa.rdoracaoc   tata,   aiantiolrrrlolaitilateeaaaiaiy
ten  saiirratineaclr   an oInd n    ie-et inorla   tfaraaarc   a_rtra
cantatar~onioiteada1eect   Irn a..    r do,11; iit,I  dIi  ard -.977l -y                                                                                     i
daee.                                                                                     ,oan  Oll_infihitftldh    ,l,  ~
rctre 1at   oae t96a65  19te  -aine  Oil-, d- -I  ac   a   oa                            Itro-reraict.df1-   li.    -d  1
rtec.n-ra        -IfP-L ~                                                                   rornina- fa-pon-t-   -laioci97 h
e _hiri;bit         and 199  daaa.           hIdidaacaerreiednIan.ad.an....ri.n
year at     f age pen . thi fa aim   hIle   9th,ia   -d  mii  at.                                dbirlate-a.a-ttcI nr...o  lanadI ... iohanaelilhiioal,nelnaa
nccre a  tot  dater ' Iconit  a  ra -Otanl - .ctO1ro, n   ac                                     natrIt-i,rai,-ottat d..yon       I  i plpanenaii ran-Iadlb r    -rreoi  it na
astr  rotId incld en    ,16-,17 rreteoatae 9tee0  an-rant  Oa-f-nat  Rl-ir  aIsi Incr  1ae  lUl  -cn rdii  - rn5a and Iacal
annarnatinetedaaioroaclcanhai  trio craiecaohrrcnilea,tPnlnto.ata               tatdlrtiataatcoctrto   rrase  iite1rc  are-thirdafoatrarti-arra-'ia
natli-tort eIal -- ispeaeIag a.d  tlcoi   Ioccrn   pay pacatinna .9  atI i                         iot Ln9tor   hrrtn7tialaii7ane   rore
arbo  snaacbiirtoaia n orirad~s   Ocrtodnr~ ari  thr io eaareacioinl.al                   htcm   arahi m           tliigh
trisartaaaayiercnedered-sl -idain       -reaaaaarchto ..tnId i                               ieatod--atcnlratltaraeaa                          nor    aeO-'coIl -aia
hace. inraalanet   rainaltrcataad   snc taial  faiI               a                    nrta-tcr-n   arprci                    20ara  pndc-ti  rhd  or  ahti
eanbey  atiheaanthlddana   hadeisrraad-.npaioan_a_ pa-ict
ncdtitad-oa-rh  toaiy e,f  cata- 9noade.        -    i8d-
acres. natecesic tisiacat la-s rarne at Iacnlatital - total,....... cd
ill,-t   h tatyei-lelt-tal,arh -t,   an -ara  inoraodhyeorrde--ra                                                                     (,S  p     ,ii)    -
dIecoa  ,ao eeIer-aee9at0eye in  e                70riae -eaeian. Illet  dra-Yoieo1ic1.                                                       - I-  bl.  h,  Ii I
saifrcladeneagrIiraadYcieadaih-rithanteaeen--t rrel-ndfric   taoiaii
hcasecrt  adess-   -achaasrtrrsets  anha- atIt                                                                            creiTayiiryrtaia   sy on
pniries sa  sieiiaF    r-aieiiatians-P..  nI""IatS$                                                                                            -   -1-9H-1d... 



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
GRANA,
ECONOMIC IN)ICA2ORS
GNI PM CAPITA IN 198&: US$360 1/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 198                                           ANUAL RAaE OF GMTH
(%, Constant Prices)
Cedis Miu.           %                      1977-8
GNP at Market Prices                 85,700           100.00                     -0.86
Gross Domestic Investment             1,148             1.30                     -16.40
Gross National Savirg                 1,259             1.50                    -16.45
Current Accout Balance                 -46             -0.05
Export of Goods, NFS                  2,009             2.34                      -9.44
Inport of Goods, NFS                  1,959             2.29                    -20.22
OUTPUE AND LABOX FORCE
Output in 1982                          labor Force, 1982
Cedis Mi-..        %                 Nil.          %
Agriculture                          44,031            51.28              2.509        57.2
Indastry                              6,440             7.50              0.671        15.3
Services                             35,395            41.22              1.206        27.5
Total                                85,866           100.00              4.386        100.0
GOVER~N    FMINANCE
_Central Goverrment_l/
Oedis Ml.  % of GDP in 1982  Cedis MLi.  % of GDP in 1983-
Total Revenue and Grants             5,253.2          6.1         10,241.0          8.2
Total Exrediture and Net Ledirg      9,220.1         10.7        15,137.6          12.1
Overall Deficit (-)                 -3,966.9         -4.6        -4,896.6          -3.9
MNEY, GRFDIT AND PRICES
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Money and Qiasi-ney                  3,044   5,131   5,942   7,949   12,029  14,837  20,803
Bank Credit to Public Sector         3,203   5,636   6,537    8,481   14,043   17,140  29,392
Bark Credit to Private Sector          560     739      796     940   1,342   1,558   2,838
(Percentaes of Index 2nbers)
~bney and Quasi-lney as % of GDP      27.3    24.4    21.1    19.4    15.7    17.6    16.7
General Price Index (1977:100)       100.0   173.1   267.3   401.2   868.6  1062.4  2371.0
1/  Staff estimate
May 1984



- 28 -
ANM  I
Page 5 of 5
GHANA
BALANCE OF PAMTS                                   ]RQANDISE EXPORTS (AVERA  1978-1982)
1981   1982   1983
us$ ma. 
(US$ million)
locoa Beans & Products  654.5    72.9
Trade Balance             22.3   98.2  -198.7       Trimber IUgs & Products   38.2     4.3
Exports                  766.3  627.2  459.3        Gold                    135.1    15.0
Imports                 -788.7  -529.0 -658.0       Diamonds                 10.3     1.1
Naxganese                 9.6      1.1
Invisibles (Net)         -140.4 -114.8 -145.4       All Otber Goods           50.1     5.6
Services                -223.3 -197.2  -218.7
Transfers                 82.9   82.4   73.3        Total                   897.8   100.0
Current Balance          -162.7  -16.6 -344.1                                     /
EIENL DJEBT, DECEMBER 1983 J
Capital Accounts                                                                     Us$ MI.l.
Official Capital (Net)    57.3  149.7   59.4
Private Capital (Net)     26.3   31.7   18.6        Total Outstandirg and
Arrears Payments         141.4   35.2  -43.5          Disbursed M&LT                 1,095.1
Total Outstandirg and
Overall Balance 2/       -262.5   56.4 -213.0          Disbursed incl. Short-term     1,370.9
Gross International
Reserves (End of Period)  187.4  223.7  128.0       IEr SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983 4/      %
Tlotal Outstandirg and
February 1973 - June 18, 1978                         Disbursed M&LT                  26.3
US$1 = I1.15                                lbtal Outstandirg and
Disbursed incl. payment arrears 35.8
Since Aug. 26, 1978, US$1 = ~2.75
Since Oct. 10, 1983, US$1 = ¢30                     IBRD/IDA IEDING (February 29, 1984)
Since March 25, 1984, US$1 = 035
IB3RD    IDA
Cutstandixg and
Disbursed           126.40   146.65
Undisbursed            13.93  121.46
Outstandipg, incl.
Undisbursed         140.33  265.01
1/ Provisional estimates subject to dwge
2/ Includes errors and omissions
3  Actual data mt available. Estimates only
4/ As % of exports of goods
May 1984
WA1DB



- 29 -                                   ANNEX II
HE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA 1/
SIATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1984)
Loan or
Credit     Fiscal                                                       Less Cancellation 2/
Nunber      Year         Bbrrower                 Purpose             Bank     IDA  Undisbursed
Eight loans and twelve credits fully disbursed                        146.5    89.9
531-GH       1975    Republic of Ghana        Oil Palm                         13.6        0-3
1122-GH      1975    Post & Telecommuni-     Telecommunications       23.0                 8.7
cations
1291-GH 3/   1976    Republic of Ghana        Agricultural
Developnent           21.0                 5.1
901-GH       1979   Republic of Ghana         Second NIB                        19.0        9.7
10 9-GH      1980    Republic of Ghana       Agricultural
Development                    29.5       25.6
1029-GH      1980   Republic of Ghana        Third Highway                    25.0        6.3
1170-GH      1981    Republic of Ghana       Railway                           29.0       23.3 4/
1342-GH      1983    Republic of Ghana       Water Supply                      13.0       11.1 4/
1327-GH      1983   Republic of Ghana        Reconstruction CIMAO               9.3        9.3
1373-GGH     1973    Republic of Ghana       Ehergy Project                     11.0      10.4 4/
1393-GH      1983   Republic of Ghana        Reconstruction Import Credit      40.0       33.2 4/
1435-GH      1984    Republic of Ghana        Export Rehabilitation 5/         76.0       76.0
1436-GH      1974   Republic of Ghana        Export Rehabilitation
T.A. 5/                          17.1       17.1 1/
1446-GH      1984   Republic of Ghana        PetroTeun Ref.
Rehab & T.A. 5/                   6.9        6.9
Total                                            190.5   379-3      243-0
of which has been paid                         50.2       3.2
Total now outstanding                            140.3   376.1
Amount sold                     0.4
of which has been repaid      0.4               0.0      0.0
Total now held by Bank & IDA                    140.3   376.1
Total undisbursed                                 13.8   229.2      243.0
1/  The status of the projects listed in this part is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the
Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/  Interest subsidy fund (Third Window).
4/  Calculated at the exchange rate applicable on March 31, 1984
5/ Not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
GHANA
OIL PAIM DEVELOPMENT P'OJEDT - PHASE II
SUPPLEBETR PROJECT DATA
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:                   6 months
(b) Project prepared by:                                  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to consider the project:  October 1990
(d) Date of Appraisal mission:                            April 1981
(e)  Date of Reappraisal mission:                         October 1983
(f)  Date of completion of Negotiations:                  May 1, 1984
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                       September 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) IDA approval to be sought on (i) the design for workers' housing, and (ii) the IEHO
research and station work program (conditions of disbursement) (paras. 55 and 58);
(b)  Goverment to (i) increase its contribu.tion to GOPDC's equity in the event GOPDC is
unable to finance its share of project costs, and (ii) provide the necessary foreign
exchange for imports of operating materials shDuld GOPDC's foreign exchange earnings
fall short of the requirement (para. 63);
(c)  Interest rates charged on outgrower loans to te reviewed annually between Governmnt and
IDA (para. 64);
(d)  GOPDC to be able to hire procuraent agents satisfactory to IDA (parm. 65); and
(e) GOPIC pricing policy to be acceptable to Government and IDA (pare. 70).



IBRD 16043
PlO                    P~~~~~~~~~~05,                 POE'0                           OGS'                            o1so                    SEPTEMBER 1981
GHANA
OIL PALM  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                           I                            IO
PHASE  IF                                                                            /                                                        MILES
Concess-on of Ghana OR. Polm  Development Corporation
Phase I Nucleus Estate                                                                                                                                          If
rFuj 12Phase I S-rallhaders Area                                                            6N2
6i25               LOTUMI   Phase I O.tgroaers Areas                                                                              6°25
Potential OCtgrowers Area for Phase I4
LI7j  Forest Reserves
F rst Class Roads
Second Class Roads                                                                                                                        r       (AWXI ECUI ( T5XF F OR.,   EEiE
-    -   Third  Class Roads
I Rwlays
6'20'                                                                                                                                                                                                         6h20
Reg.onol Roundories
1                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TWIAPIASI
Li  viNY'',,V~-"'i,..   4XE..  e;/7XMA
bVC'#d fi .... ,lA b 50 .... f; XC/.I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... VVf)....                                             t                                       FABEA   ,,  W < AM61
1'15'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AOO                                                                                                     =tNNI61'
rhed.nn.n."arlansusedandrh   ;                               p~~~~~~~~~~~~~AKCKOASO   / NM;z    .- i    9;          
WorddnK rmd./es,f.l  -aSY wo . g brSEr>\fF / - / > - \ / <' PRAMKESE~~~~~~~~~~~PAMKES
tvA;XOo }  -  -   : v    l          <                      .     ~~~~~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~                      ~     ~~~          ~          ~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~............  \   ;lK DE
U P PR. VOLTA                                           ......60'
COAST    2                                                                                                                                                                    AKWA)-
A t/rctic   OctoL                      1t10                            1A05               ABENASI    1°00i                              55                    J        050                           Ar



l
l



