Document of
The World Bank                        ._
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                        I
Report No. 3724-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
May 22, 1984
West Africa Project Department
Agricultural Division B
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit  =  Cedi
US$1            =  /35.00
1 Cedi          =  US$0.029
Weights and Measures
(metric system)
Abbreviations
ADB                  Agricultural Development Bank
BADEA                Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CDC                  Commonwealth Development Corporation
CIDA                 Canadian International Development Agency
CMB                  Cocoa Marketing Board
CSIR                 Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
EEC                  European Economic Community
EIB                  European Investment Bank
FAO/World Bank-CP   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
ffb                  Fresh fruit bunches
GOG                  Government of Ghana
GOPDC                Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation
lFAD                 International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMC                  Interim Management Committee
IRHO                 Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux
MOA                  Ministry of Agriculture
ODA                  Overseas Development Administration (UK)
OPRC                 Oil Palm Research Centre
SFC                  State Farms Corporation
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
WFP                  World Food Program
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .............................                       1
A.  Background .............................    l
B.  Agricultural Production .............................                 2
C.  The Oil Palm Sub-sector .............................-                2
D. Sector Development Objectives, Strategy and
Key Issues.                                                           4
E. Bank Group's Role in Agricultural and Rural
Development.                                                          5
II. THE PROJECT AREA..                                                           7
III. EXPERIENCE WITH THE FIRST PROJECT              .         .                  8
IV.  PROJECT RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES    .                   .11
V.  THE PROJECT                  ........................ 13
A.  General Description ....................................  13
B. Detailed Features ......  14
C. Cost Estimates ......  18
D. Proposed Financing ......  19
E. Procurement ......  21
F. Disbursements ......  22
G.  Programming, Budgeting, Accounts and Audits ....               ..   24
VI.  MANAGEMENT, ORGANIZATIONANDSTAFFING.24
A. Management ......  24
B. Organization and Staffing ......  25
C. The Outgrower Scheme ......  26
D. Monitoring and Evaluation ......  27
E. Reporting ......  27
F. Status of Engineering ......  28
VII.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND TECHNOLOGICAL SPECIFICATIONS....   28
A. Production and Yields ......  28
B. Cultivation Techniques ......  29
This report is based on the findings of a reappraisal mission composed of
Messrs. S. Husain and L. Campbell (Bank) and Ms. A. de Mautort (Consultant),
which visited Ghana in October 1983. The Project was originally appraised in
April 1981. The report was prepared by Messrs. L. Campbell, S. Husain,
R. Sllivan, A. Chupak and was typed by Z. Akram.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(Tables of Contents - cont'd)
Page No.
VIII. MARKETS PROSPECTS, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL
ANALYSIS  *      ...........................................  31
IX.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .................................  35
A.  Project Benefits ...........*...........C..CC...CC...... , 35
B.  Economic Rate of Return    ................................  36
C.  Sensitivity and Risk Analysis       ..........................  36
X.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................... 38
Annexes
5.1        Table 1    Summary of Project Costs
Table 2    Project Baseline Costs by Components
Table 3    GOPDC Operating Surplus (Deficit)
5.2        Proposed Financing Plan
5.3        Illustrative Government Cash Flow
5.4        Table 1    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 2    Estimated Disbursement Profile
5.5        Implementation Schedule
7.1        Basic Assumptions
7.2        Table 1    Input Requirements per hectare of Outgrower Plantings
Table 2    Manday Requirements per hectare of Outgrower Plantings
Table 3    Cost of Inputs, Services and Labor to Outgrowers (per
hectare)
7.3        Design Standards for Feeder and Food Collection Roads
8.1        Illustrative Cash Flow for 1 ha Outgrower Planting
8.2        Table 1    GOPDC Projected Profit and Loss Statements
Table 2    GOPDC Projected Sources and Application of Funds
Table 3    GOPDC Projected Balance Sheet
9          Assumptions Underlying Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Table 1    Production of FFB, Palm Oil and Palm Kernels -  Phase I
- Smallholders
Table 2    Production of FFB, Palm Oil and Palm Kernels -  Phase I
- Nucleus Estate
Table 3    Production of FFB, Palm Oil and Palm Kernels -  Phase II
Smallholders and Combined Phases I and II
Table 4    Economic Millgate Price of Palm Oil
Table 5    Economic Millgate Price of Palm Kernel
Table 6    Estimated Economic Rate of Return for Combined Phases
I and II
Table 7    Estimated Economic Rate of Return for Phase II
Charts and Maps
IBRD Chart No. 23341  Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation: Proposed
Organization Chart
IBRD Map No. 16043    Oil Palm Development Project--Phase II
Documents in Project File (See list of page iii).



-iii-
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
File Code 129987
A. General Reports and Studies on Sector
Al.   Ghana:  Agricultural Sector Review (3 volumes);
World Bank Report No. 1769-GH, April 12, 1978.
A2.   Oil Palm Development in Ghana; European Development
Fund Project No. 4505.031.11, Harrisons Fleming
Advisory Services, 1978.
A3.   Ghana Agro-Industrial Development:  Rationalization
Based on a Perspective; FAO, November 1978.
A4.   Ghana:  Report of the Agricultural Projects Identifica
tion Mission; FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program,
September 1980.
B. Specific Papers Relating to the Project
B1.   Ghana:  Second Oil Palm Project; Preparation Report,
FAO/CP, February 1981.
B2.   Advisory Service on Oil Palm Breeding in Ghana; Report
on the First Visit of IRHO Plant Breeder, March 1977.
B3.   Advisory Service on Oil Palm Breeding in Ghana; Report
on the Second Visit of IRHO Plant Breeder, March 1978.
B4.   Memorandum on Requirements for Seed Production,
Research and Development of the Oil Palm Research
Center; Council for Scientific and Industrial Research,
Ghana, August 1981.
B5.   Ghana - Oil Palm Development Project Credit 531GH -
Completion Report, 1983.
C. Working Papers
Cl.   Detailed Cost Tables
C2.   WP No. 1.  Agricultural Operations and Feeder Roads
C3.   WP No. 2.  Outgrowers' Cash Flow
C4.   WP No. 3.  Housing and Buildings
C5.   WP No. 4.  Production, Demand, Market Prospects,
Marketing and Prices



- iv -
GHANA
Oil Palm Development Project - Phase II
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Ghana
Amount:             IDA Credit of SDR 23.5 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:   A total of about SDR 18.4 million (about US$19.6 million)
would be onlent to the Ghana Oil Palm Development Corpora-
tion (GOPDC) initially at 12.5 percent for 15 years,
including 7 years of grace. GOPDC in turn would onlend up
to SDR 1.1 million (US$1.2 million) to outgrowers initially
at a rate of 12.5 percent per annum for 13 years including
6 years of grace. The interest rate would be adjusted as
necessary to reflect the current rate charged by the
Central Bank of Ghana for agricultural loans.
Project
Description       The project would provide for consolidation of Phase I
development of the nucleus plantation and smallholder/out-
grower plantings. It would also increase palm oil
production through an additional 2,500 ha of outgrower
plantings. The main components include: vehicles,
equipment, and building materials for housing for nucleus
estate and oil mill employees; inputs, extension services,
and credit to smallholders/outgrowers; consultant services;
training; and development of an oil palm research
program. There are no unusual technical project risks and
implementation problems are expected to be minimal since
the project would be based on the institutions and
experience of Phase I. However, the project faces risks
related to (a) the high domestic inflation which, if it
continues, could lead to cost overruns, and (b) the avail-
ability of foreign exchange to meet recurrent costs of
imported farm inputs. However, in view of satisfactory
experience with Government contributions under Phase I, and
assuming continued efforts by the Government at containing
inflation, these risks are significantly reduced.



v 
Estimated Costs:
---------US$ '000----------
Local     Foreign      Total
1.  Project Hdqtrs. and Management              1.1         1.7         2.8
2.  Nucleus Plantation                          5.4         7.3        12.7
3.  Outgrowers/Smallholders Scheme               1.3        2.9         4.2
4.  Palm Oil Mill                               0.8         4.6         5-4
5.  Training, Consultancy and Research          0.2         2.7         2.9
Base Cost                              8.8        19.2       28.0
Physical Contingencies                 0.5        0.9          1.4
Price Contingencies                    4.5         2.0         6.5
Total Cost                        13.8        22.1        35.9
Financing Plan:
-____---US$ '000-
Local     Foreign      Total
IDA                                    2.9       22.1        25.0
G0PDC                                  9.1           -         9.1
Government                             1.3           -         1.3
Smallholder/Outgrowers                 0.5           -        0.5
Total                            13.8        22.1        35-9
Estimated Disbursement:
----------US$  000- -
FY85     FY86      FY87      FY88      FY89     FY90
Annual                 1.2      5.1       7.2       6.3      2.8       2.4
Cumulative            1.2       6.3      13.5      19.8     22.6      25.0
Rate of Return:    17%.  The ERR for combined Phases I and II includes all
costs incurred from 1977 onward and is 12%.






GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Background
1.01     Ghana has an area of about 238,000 km2 and an estimated populaticn cf
about 11.8 millicn. With an average density of populaticn cf about 48 per sq.
km for the country as a whole there is nc cverall scarcity cf land. About 63%
of the pcpulaticn lives in the rural areas. The country's total pcpulaticn
grew at an average annual rate of abcut 2.4% during the early 70s, but recent
estimates indicate that this growth rate has increased tc about 2.9% per annum
in the late 70s and early 80s.
1.02     Abcut 22.7 million ha (or 95% cf total geographical area) is land
surface. Approximately 11% of this land area, or about 2.6 millicn ha, is
under cultivaticn; nearly 55% (12.3 millicn ha) is under bush fallow and the
remaining 34% (7.8 millicn ha) under reserved and unreserved forest. Ecclogi-
cally, the country can be divided intc twc main zones: the forest zone, with
high-rainfall and semi-deciduous forests covering just over one third of the
country, and the savannah zones (coastal and interior/ncrthern) taking up the
remaining twc thirds. The fcrest zones have an annual rainfall cf 1,300-2,100
mm distributed in twc rainy seasons and scils are generally suitable for grow-
ing tropical crops. The ccastal savannah is characterized by high tempera-
tures and moderate rainfall averaging 600-1,000 mm p.a. In the intericr/
ncrthern savannah rainfall averages about 1,100 mm p.a., but rainfall in the
northeast part cf this zone averages only 800 mm p.a. Soils vary from heavy
clayed vertiscls tc light textured sodic planascls and gleysols. The better
soils are used fcr growing fcd crops, sugar cane and tobacco, while the
grasslands are devoted tc livestock grazing. Shifting cultivaticn with long
periods of fallow is the predominant farming system.
1.03     Basically three major land tenure systems are found:  family, com-
munal and state ownership. The existing tenurial arrangements are flexible
and practical, and individuals can usually acquire usufruct on agricultural
lands available within their respective communities. According to the 1970
agricultural census, 68% of holdings in Ghana were less than 2.5 ha, while
only about 18% were cver 4 ha. The level of agricultural technology is rudi-
mentary, resource utilizaticn is far below potential, and average output per
farmer is low. Agricultural production is still smallholder based and large
commercial farmers do nct occupy any position cf importance. Use cf hired
labor is quite widespread, as nearly 60% of all holdings employ some form of
hired laber.



- 2 -
B. Agricultural Production
1.04     Sector Production and Ccntribution to GDP.  Agriculture, including
livestcck, fisheries and forestry, contributes about 51% of GDP and employs
57% of the labor fcree. Crops (excluding ccoa) and the livestcok subsector
contribute about 62% of the GDP originating in the agriculture sector, while
eocoa, forestry and fishing contribute 24%, 11% and 3% respectively. Cocoa is
the most important single crop, accounting for about 73% cf Ghana's merchan-
dise export earnings, and 12% of GDP. It has also accounted in the past for
cver 30% of Gcvernment revenue. Growth of the agricultural sector, poor since
the early sixties, has deteriorated sharply since the mid-1970s. Several
years of drought, shortages of farm inputs, detericration of transport ser-
vices, unfavorable Gcvernment policies (particularly inadequate producer
prices cf industrial crops) and weak institutions have been the main reasons
for the deeline. The cocoa sector in particular has declined drastically,
with production in 1982/83 hitting a low cf 180,000 tens, which was less than
half the average of 400,000 tons in the 60s and early 70s. Projecticns for
1983/84 are even lower at 150,000 tons.
1.05     Available estimates indicate that at present Ghana prcduces about
500,000 tons of cereals annually, compared to about 700,000 tons a decade
ago. Maize, constituting about 60% cf total production of cereals, is cul-
tivated in all regions, although the bulk of the production comes from the
savannahs. Other domestic fcod crops include scrghum (86,000 tons), millet
(76,000 tons), and rice (36,000 tons). Annual producticn of starchy staples
is estimated at about 4.5 million tons, compared to about 4.6 millicn tons a
decade ago. About 55% of starchy staples production is cassava, 16% plantain,
and the rest cccyams and yams.  Cocoa covers some 50% cf all cultivated land;
oil palm grows mostly wild cn about 70,000-80,000 ha; cotton, coffee, and
sugarcane are still relatively minor crops.
C. The Oil Palm Sub-Sector
1.06     Oil paLm producticn has been important in Ghana for several decades.
Apart from producing oil, which is an essential ingredient in the Ghanaian
cuisine, leaves and trunks provide material for construction and househeld
use; fruits are used in scups and stews and palm "wine" is produced from the
sap cf the tree. Palm oil is alsc used industrially for making soap, marga-
rine, and cooking fat.  Grcundnut cil and coconut cil are the main but less
acceptable substitutes for domestically consumed cil in Ghana. Around the
turn cf the century, palm cil was the most important export product cf the
then Gcld Ccast. Increasing local consumption and attractiveness of cocoa as
an alternative crop eliminated palm oil experts. Only parts of southern Ghana
have sufficient rainfall for cil palm cultivation, though conditions are not
ideal. Yields (13 tons ffb/ha/yr) cn well managed plantations are nct compe-
titive with those that can be achieved in the Far East and in many cf the
Pacific countries (20-22 tons ffb/ha/yr). Nevertheless they are viable,
particularly for' the local market.



- 3 -
1.07     The main sources cf cil palm in Ghana are the natural palmeries (wild
groves), small private plantings and large scale plantaticns. Available
figures relating to acreage under cultivation and yields of the first twc
scurces are cf doubtful reliability. Figures relating to large scale planta-
ticns are considerably more reliable. Pure stand farms are usually found cn
large-scale plantations while mixed crops and wild stands are generally owned
by smallholders. Estimated total palm oil producticn in 1970 was about 20,300
tons cf which about 19,000 tons were consumed as edible cil. 1/ Due to the
less cf wild palm trees thrcugh aging, tapping fcr palm wine cr felling for
cther reasons, natural regeneration is nct expected tc keep pace with the loss
cf trees. Consequently, oil production from natural palmeries is expected tc
decrease by 2% yearly through 1990. However, spurred by continuing attractive
palm cil prices (para. 8.08), oil output from small holdings is expected to
increase by 4% per year through 1990. Based on these assumptions, oil cutput
from wild groves is estimated to be about 6,800 tons in 1983, and projected to
decline tc 6,500 tons in 1985 and about 6,000 tons in 1990. At the same time,
cil cutput from small private holdings (predominantly mixed farms) is esti-
mated to be about 14,000 tons in 1983 and projected to increase to about
15,000 tons in 1985 and 18,500 tons in 1990.
1.08     Although smallholders are enecuraged to increase their plantings of
cil palm thrcugh extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture and provi-
sicn of seedlings, the main thrust cf oil palm development in Ghana has been
through the establishment of four large-scale plantaticns: State Farms Cor-
poration (SFC) which has about 6,900 ha planted (including about 400 ha under
outgrowers) although about 3000 ha need rehabilitation; Bensc (Unilever) which
has about 4,000 ha planted with about 900 ha already in bearing; Twifo (CDC),
which has a planting target of 6,000 ha, but has achieved only about 3,200 ha
so far due tc difficult land acquisiticn problems; and Ghana Oil Palm Develop-
ment Corporation (GOPDC), the IDA assisted Project (Chapter III), which by
1983 had planted 5,150 ha out of a total target of about 5,200 ha (including
about 1,200 ha under smallholders/cutgrowers). These plantations were cri-
ginally designed to be cf the nucleus estate and associated smallholder type
with the latter amounting, in general, tc about 25% of the area of the nucleus
plantation in each case. Of the plantings achieved so far, however, almost
the entire heetarage is nucleus estate type except for the GOPDC plantaticn
where the smallholder/cutgrower portion exceeded is target by 12.5%. Only
some of these plantings are now in bearing and total current production cf
palm oil from SFC, Benso and GOPDC is about 5,000 tons. Ccmbined present
annual domestic production cf palm cil in Ghana from large-scale plantations,
small private plantings and wild groves (para 1.07) is estimated at about
26,000 tons (Mcre details are given in Chapter VIII).
1.09     Oil Palm Research.  Oil palm research is carried cut at the 1,084 ha
Oil Palm Research Center (OPRC) situated at Kusi which is about 25 km from
Kwae plantation of GOPDC. The center, which was established in 1964, has
technical secticns (plant breeding, physiclogy, entomology, pathology and
1/   World Bank, Appraisal cf the Oil Palm Project:  Ghana; February 3, 1975.



- 4 -
agronomy) and Plantaticn Management and Administration secticns. Ongoing
research at the center covers plant breeding, seed production and germination,
fertilizer and spacing trials, insect and weed control measures, and nursery
practices. Apart from research and seed production, the center provides
extensicn advice, publicaticns, in-service training, runs cpen days and pro-
vides technical data for the industry. Plant breeding and seed production
have been the main activities. About 280 ha cf cil palm under yield trials
are in bearing and 40 ha are fcr seed production. OPRC is producing some 1.5
million to 2.0 million seeds annually which is insufficient tc satisfy Ghana's
needs. A report by consultants in 1977 on the breeding program concluded that
few of the comparative trials are useful and that an improved long-term
research prcgram is needed. The report criticized the present seed selecticn
methods suggesting that many of the seeds then issued were of poor genetic
quality and that after selection improvements in present mother stock perhaps
only 1.3 million seeds might have sufficient commercial potential. The situa-
tion since 1977 has not changed. However, necessary improvements and new
techniques wculd only be possible if facilities were imprcved and equipment
provided. Surveys undertaken by the OPRC entomologist in 1980 and 1981 cn
insect damage to nurseries and grcwing palms pointed to increasingly sericus
damage by insects. Cultural experiments are needed and a pathologist is
required to work with the plant breeder on resistance tc disease, particularly
Vascular Wilt (Fusarium sp.). Recognizing these deficiences, the Government
is constructing a laboratory building to provide facilities for increased
research. However, funds for equipment are inadequate. The vehicles, lab
equipment and farm equipment available at the Center cannot provide fcr effec-
tive operations (paras. 3.08 and 5.13).
D. Sector Development Objectives, Strategy and Key Issues
1.10     The development strategy of the sixties and early seventies, which
emphasized creation cf large-scale capital intensive industries, with agricul-
ture receiving a lower priority, has been modified. Allocaticn to agriculture
in the 3-year economic rehabilitation program (1984-86) is about 15% compared
tc only 3% of the budget in 1971. The major objectives cf the Government in
the agricultural sector are: (a) increased production of food and raw
materials for agro-industries; (b) diversification of exports thrcugh promo-
tion of nontraditional experts; (c) rehabilitation and expansion cf the
declining cocca subsectcr; (d) development cf livestock, fisheries and
forestry; and (e) minimizing rural-urban migration, particularly by rural
youth, through creation cf employment opportunities in the rural areas and by
making farming financially more attractive. However, if rapid recovery of the
sectcr (and the economy as a whole) is tc be achieved, fundamental changes in
government pclicies with respect to sector institutions, cperations, and input
and output pricing policies, among cthers, would be required. The need fcr
such policy changes has been recognized, and some action has already been ini-
tiated. For example, producer prices for cocoa have been increased substan-
tially in the recent past and a mechanism for annual review and adjustment has
been introduced under the Export Rehabilitation Project; operational planning,
budgeting and policy formulating responsibilities and functions cf the
Ministry cf Agriculture (MOA) are being decentralized; private trading in



-5-
produce marketing is being enccuraged; commercial ccmpanies have been estab-
lished fcr input supply, and seed production; and smallhclder development is
being promoted through the Upper Region and the Volta Regicn Projects. Ferti-
lizer subsidies have ncw been removed as a means tc raticnalize agriculural
price and ccst relaticnships. The Government is trying to establish a set cf
priorities fcr the agricultural sectcr. The 1984-86 program calls for in-
creased foreign exchange investment allocations tc agriculture, readjustments
in Government cutput pricing programs, improved import licensing procedures
and the complete phasing cut cf agricultural input subsidies.
1.11     Ccnstraints.  Tc date, Gcvernment policies have been relatively
unsuccessful in removing constraints tc agricultural growth. Introducticn cf
new policies and implementation of instituticnal changes in MOA have proven tc
be slcw and difficult. Moreover, cne must recognize that long-term agricul-
tural development in Ghana still faces a number cf serious constraints,
notably inadequate and uneven supply of inputs (principally fertilizers),
problems of transport, storage and distribution cf inputs and farm produce,
inadequate feeder and farm access roads, and poor management. A well-defined
long-term agricultural development plan is lacking, and there is a shortage cf
technical and managerial skills, partly as a result of large-scale migraticn
to neighboring West African countries in recent years. Extension staff are
inadequately trained, ill-equipped and pocrly supervised. Moreover, the
effectiveness and efficiency cf decentralizing MOA operations to the regional
level remains tc be assessed and the powers, responsibilities and relaticn-
ships between MOA Accra and regional staff need clearer definition. Other
important issues that need to be resolved are greater competition in the
marketing and distribution of agricultural inputs and outputs, reduction in
the public service work fcrce and increases in incentives in rural areas to
ensure greater production. Although many of the issues are gradually being
affected by the reforms mentioned in para 1.10, full rescluticn of these
issues will take a number of years to acocmplish.
E.  Bank Group's Role in Agricultural and Rural Development
1.12     The main objective of the Bank's lending cperations in agriculture in
Ghana is tc assist the country in achieving increased production of food and
raw materials for agro-industries, and to arrest and reverse the decline of
the major subsectors of cocca and timber. Total sectcr lending over 1969-83
amounted to US$105.5 million and comprised 8 projects. Ccnsistent with the
general deterioration in Agriculture the Bank's experience has not been en-
couraging. While reasons for this situation vary from project to project, all
have suffered from the country's poor economic management in the 70s, bureau-
cratic inertia, shortages cf foreign exchange and basic commodities and
repeated breakdowns in the public services such as power, transport and com-
munications.
1.13     The first agriculture-related project, a Fisheries Project
(Cr. 163-GH, 1969, US$1.3 million) did nct reach its targets due in part to
problems in management and project design. Its economic rate cf return (ERR)



- 6 -
was 10% compared to 50% at appraisal. 1/ The Eastern Regicn Cocoa Project
(Cr. 205-GH, 1970, US$8.5 millicn) achieved most of its physical targets but
at a high time and cost cverrun and with very little farmer participation
because of lcw producer prices fcr cocoa (ERR 12%, compared with 26% at
appraisal). 2/ Similar problems have faced the Ashanti Cocoa Project
(Ln. 1181-GH, 1975, US$14 million) despite good Ghanaian management.  About
91% cf the planting target was achieved.by the loan closing date cf December,
1982, and four years behind schedule. A draft project cempleticn repcrt (PCR)
has been prepared and it estimates an ERR of 5%-13%, depending on the impact
of price changes. This is compared with 21% at appraisal. A Sugar Reha-
bilitation Project (Cr. 354-GH, 1972, US$15.6 million) was adversely affected
by droughts, official indifference and fcreign exchange shertages, and ended
in failure in 1978. The rate cf return was negative. 3/ The Livestock Devel-
cpment Project (Cr. 500-GH, 1974, US$2.0 million) suffered because cf manage-
ment and financial problems. The project closed as scheduled cn June 30,
1981.. Its objectives were not achieved resulting in a negative ERR although
it is expected to have a financial rate of return of 12%. 4/ The country's
first experiment with integrated agriculture, the Upper Region Agricultural
Development Project (Ln. 1291-T-GH, 1976, US$21.0 million) suffered from pcor
management, bureaucratic inertia and serious shortages cf local funds,
materials and basic commodities. In order tc ensure financing of the
Rinderpest campaign and import of fertilizers from the remaining portion of
the loan, the loan closing date has been extended from December 31, 1981 to
September 30, 1984. The Phase I Oil Palm Development Project (Cr. 531-GH,
1975, US$13.6 million) is the most successful agricultural project in terms of
meeting its planting targets and institutional, financial and economic objec-
tives in Ghana (Chapter III). A PCR has been prepared and it estimates an ERR
of 12% compared to about 16% at appraisal. Implementation of the Volta Regicn
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1009-GH, 1980, US$29.5 million) is in
its early stages following a year s delay in credit effectiveness due tc slow
Gcvernment action in fulfilling the conditions. The project has suffered from
a nLmber of problems and an in-depth review is now in progress.
1.14     In addition tc the projects mentioned above, a multi-sectcral Export
Rehabilitation Project (ERP) was recently approved. The project includes
cocca, timber and gold mining components and provides fcr inputs, equipment
and materials for the rehabilitation of these sub-sectors. Substantial tech-
nical assistance will also be provided to the instituticns respcnsible for
implementing these cempcnents thrcugh the ERP Technical Assistance Project,
approved by IDA along with ERP.
1/   Project Performance Audit Report No. 2794 dated December 28, 1979.
2/   Project Performance Audit Report Nc. 3526 dated June 24, 1981.
3/   Project Performance Audit Report No. 3525 dated June 24, 1981.
4/   Project Performance Audit Report Nc. 3972 dated June 16, 1982.



- 7 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
2.01     Location.  The project area is lecated in the Kade area, after the
name of the nearest town, (latitude 06'05'N and lcngitude 0°60'W) in the
administrative district cf Tafc in the Eastern Regicn, some 145 km from
Accra. The nucleus plantaticn under Phase I is situated in the Kwae area
(IBRD Map 16043). Participating outgrowers under Phase II are expected tc be
located within a 25-kilometer radius cf Kwae.
2.02     Climate.  The climate is considered suited for oil palm cultiva-
tion. Rainfall and cther climatic conditions such as hours of sunshine, mean
temperatures and relative humidity are all above the minimal requirements fcr
successful cil palm cultivation.
2.03     Topography.  The project area lies between 120 m and 260 m above sea
level and the topography is gently undulating. The GOPDC coneession area is
dissected by numerous small streams and waterways which resulted in some
fragmentaticn of the Phase I project's nucleus estate, particularly in the
southwestern area, and in some difference between grcss and net planted areas.
2.04     Scils.  During preparation cf the Phase I project, a scil study
covering the 8,955 ha concession area plus some 3,600 ha located scutheast of
that area 1/ was carried out by the Ghana Soil Research Institute. The
results of the study indicate that soils in the area can be grcuped in three
broad classes according tc their suitability fcr cil palm cultivation.
Class I soils (Kckufu and Akrcso series), consisting of deep, moderately well-
drained and gravel free loams and clays with good mcisture retention capacity,
account for about 20% of the area. Class II scils (Nzima and Asuansi series),
consisting of well drained clay loams and clays but containing some gravel
patches in the upper layers that could adversely affect moisture relationships
occupy about 55% of the area. The remaining area (25% cf the total) is occu-
pied by Class III soils (Temang, Oda, Ofin and Nta series), consisting of
scils with poor drainage and considered unsuitable for oil palm unless
improved by drainage. Soils of Class I and II can be expected to give an
average yield of 12-13 tons of fresh fruit bunches (ffb) per hectare per year
under well managed conditions.
2.05     Populaticn.  Since no census for the area exists it is difficult to
determine the actual size of the pcpulation and the labor force available. In
1972, the total population in the project area was estimated at about 42,000.
Given that rural pcpulation is assumed to grow at a rate of about 1.6% per
annum, one could estimate the population in the project area at about 54,000
in 1984. Agriculture provides the main source cf emplcyment to the labor
force in the area.
1/   To allow for a pcssible expansien of the oil palm plantation beyond
the initial concession area.



- 8 -
2.06     Farming patterns.  There are no detailed data cn farming patterns
outside the concession area (i.e., cn pctential cutgrower farms) but based cn
the Ghana Sample Census of Agriculture, 1970, the land distribution under main
crops in three districts of the Eastern Region, including Kade, has been esti-
mated as cocoa 68%, maize 9%, cassava 8%, plantain 8%, and cocoyam 7%. Much
of the cocca is affected by Swollen Shoot Virus disease and many farms
affected by this disease in the prcject area have since been abandoned. There
is alsc some oil palm planted in the area.
2.07     Land Tenure.  As in the rest of the country, land is owned either by
ccmmunities, families, individuals, or by the State. A survey carried out by
the Ministry of Lands and Natural Rescurces in March 1980 based on 895 farms
in this area indicated that about 14% of farms were cf 0.4 tc 2.0 ha in size,
20% of 2.0 to 4.0 ha and 65% of 4.0 to 6.0 ha with the average size estimated
at 4.3 ha.
2.08     Communications.  A 113 km tarred road connects Accra to Kade but
parts of it are in pcor condition. This road continues northwards as a
laterite paved but unsealed road of average quality which crosses the site of
the nucleus estate before meeting the main Accra-Kumasi road. A railroad
branch line connects Kade (32 km scuth of the estate) to the main Takeradi-
Accra-Tema line. The project area is therefore reasonably well served with
communications to the main cil consumption centers of Accra and Tema, where
the main scap and margarine factcries are located. In additicn, several geod
motorable roads lead away from the present concession area giving ready access
to potential outgrower areas. However, some access roads would have tc be
constructed and some improved under Phase II of the project.
III. EXPERIENCE WITH THE FIRST PROJECT
General
3.01     The Phase I oil palm preject (Cr. 531-GH) was appraised in 1972, but
fcllowing delays resulting from the then prevailing economic circumstances in
Ghana, it was not approved by the Board until February 1975. To implement the
project, the Government established the Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation
(GOPDC), in 1975, under the Statutory Ccrporation Act, 1964 (Act 232), empow-
ered and structured to act as a commercial entity. However, credit effect-
iveness was delayed to June, 1976 due to slow Government action in fulfilling
the necessary credit conditions, particularly the appointment of a Managing
Director, the contract with consultants and the acquisition of 1,200 ha of
land fcr the nucleus estate plantings. The initial objectives of Phase I of
the project were to establish: (a) a 4000 ha nucleus plantation; (b) 1,200 ha
of outgrower plantings involving about 240 farmers; (c) a 10-ton ffb/hour palm
oil mill; (d) staff and outgrower training program; (e) field and nursery
trials with oil palm; and (f) 10 miles of road construction within the prcject
area. Important changes were made in the course cf the project's implemen-
tation. Because of the difficulties in recruiting sufficient labor and/or
contractors tc undertake manual clearing of the nucleus estate as initially
intended, the decision was taken in 1976 to shift to mechanical means. In



- 9 -
addition, in the early stages of the project, land acquisiticn for GOPDC's
nucleus estate gave rise tc suspicion amcng outlying farmers that if they
became project outgrowers their land might be taken over by GOPDC. Lack of
enthusiasm cn the part of outlying farmers to become project outgrowers
resulted in the decision to develop a smallholder block planting scheme
contiguous to the nucleus estate and reduce cutgrower involvement. However,
cutgrower interest increased in the later part of Phase I when it was clear
that they would continue to own the land. The mill's capacity was alsc
revised upward from 10 tons ffb/hr at appraisal to 15 tons ffb/hr to process
expected Phase I fruit production.
3.02     Overall the project's progress is satisfactory.  By end 1983, 3,800
ha (95% of target) of the nucleus estate and 1,352 ha (113% of target) of
smallholders/outgrowers had been planted. The contract for a 15 ton ffb/hr
palm oil mill was signed on September 15, 1980 and constructicn was satis-
factorily completed one month ahead of schedule in September 1982. The
training program for senicr staff was implemented, although the project has
had difficulty in recruiting and retaining good local professionals for senior
management pcsts. Roads were constructed and most senicr and junior staff
quarters were built. However cnly a small proporticn of workers houses was
built.
Nucleus Estate
3.03     Planting progress was slow at first due to frequent equipment break-
downs, inability to ensure timely repairs, lack cf qualified mechanical staff
and the unavailability cf spares in the country. The problem was eventually
resolved thrcugh the hiring cf a purchasing agent to expedite procurement, the
purchase cf additional bulldozers and the recruiting of an expatriate mechani-
cal engineer.
Ccst cverruns
3.04     A cost cverrun resulted mainly from higher than expected local and
international inflaticn since appraisal. The final cost cf Phase I is US$47.8
millicn including US$17.9 millicn in fcreign exchange. The appraisal esti-
mates were US$22.5 millicn with a foreign exchange compcnent cf US$10.6 mil-
licn. It should be ncted, however, that the dollar equivalent cf local costs
was high because cf conversicn at the cfficial rate cf exchange which had
significantly cvervalued the cedi over the last few years. Thus, the
magnitude cf the cverrun is somewhat magnified. Other major reasons fcr the
cost overrun included the need tc purchase heavy equipment for mechanical
clearing not provided for at appraisal and the increased investment cost cf
the 15 ton ffb/hr instead of the 10 ton ffb/hr mill. The Gcvernment agreed to
cover these cost increases with local and fcreign funds. In 1980, the
Government advanced some US$3.3 millicn toward the cost of the mill.
Land problems
3.05     Another problem was the difficulty cf acquiring full control over the
concession area leased to the project in 1975 due to slowness of Government in
compensating and arranging resettlement for the land's criginal occupants.



- 10 -
While the situaticn had nct seriously affected early implementation, the
problem was particularly acute in 1981 fcr acquiring the last 1,000 ha needed
to complete the estate plantings. The issue was not fully resolved in time to
allow GOPDC to plant in 1982 all the land it had cleared and prepared. The
problems of land acquisiticn faced by this and the Twifo project (para 1.08)
are likely to discourage the large-scale plantation approach to the develop-
ment cf cil palm in Ghana in the future.
Smaliholders and Outgrowers
3.06      As conceived at appraisal, cutgrowers were farmers from the cutlying
areas within a 25 km radius from the estate whose oil palm plantings were to
be located on their own lands. Hcwever, following difficulties in recruiting
outgrowers (para. 3.01), the smallholder scheme was established. Smallholders
were defined as those farmers under contract with GOPDC who were alloted an 8
ha plot of land from the GOPDC concession area, contiguous to the nucleus
estate (IBRD Map 16043). In contrast with outgrowers, where part cr most of
the land area may be devoted to erops other than oil palm, smallholders use
most of their land (6 ha) to growing oil palm, the remainder being taken up by
food crops, homestead, etc. Difficulties affecting recruitment of cutgrowers
have now been resclved and in the future both cutgrowers and smallholders
would participate. Bcth smallholders and cutgrowers are given extension
assistance and credit from GOPDC on the same terms. Credit fcr all inputs and
80% of the estimated labor cost was initially given at 8% interest fcr 21
years with a 9-year grace period during which interest was capitalized. In
July 1980, the interest rate was raised tc 13%, which was the rate charged by
the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) for such loans. The Phase I planting
target for smallholders/cutgrowers has already been achieved. Some 202
smallheldings (800 ha) and 116 outgrower plantings (552 ha) were established
as against an appraisal estimate of 152 outgrowers/smallholders on 1,200 ha.
The maintenance standards and cultural practices cn smallholders/cutgrowers
farms are generally satisfactory.
Management
3.07      Except for the issues surrounding the matter cf land acquisition,
Government support to the project and adherence tc the terms of the Credit
Agreement was generally satisfactcry. GOPDC's Board of Directors, which was
made up largely of civil servants and lccal representatives, was also actively
involved in project affairs. Hcwever, the Board was replaced in 1982 by an
Interim Management Committee (IMC) (para 6.03). The perfcrmance cf the pro-
ject's managing agents, the Institut de Recherche pcur les Huiles et
Oleagineux (IRHO), has been gecd. The palm oil mill was constructed by a
Dutch Engineering firm and is functioning satisfactcrily.
Research.
3.08      At appraisal of Phase I provision had been made for an oil palm plant
breeding consultant to be engaged by the project to visit the Oil Palm
Research Center (OPRC) at Kusi twice yearly tc assess the suitability of
planting materials produced by OPRC and tc monitor the breeding program.  In
the course of his first visit, the consultant recommended improvements in



- 11 -
selecting parent material to obtain high yielding hybrids, controlling germi-
nation, and improving nursery and field practices. Hcwever, by the time cf
his second visit, none of his recommendations had been implemented since the
OPRC cculd nct cbtain adequate fcreign exchange allocaticns from the Gcvern-
ment tc import required equipment and materials and provision for external
financing of these had not been made under Phase I. The consultant, there-
fore, discontinued his visits. A limited research program has been undertaken
by the project itself including (a) the use of herbicides in the nursery and
the field and (b) the application of acid-free tar as a rodent (grass cutter)
repellent tc replace wire netting prctecticn arcund the young plants. While
results in the first instance have been satisfactory, mere trials are needed
in the second phase as management fears a pcssible phytc-toxicity effect from
the use cf the tar. More recent research effcrts by the project have included
fertilizer trials and sample evaluations cf early plantings.
3.09     Phase I Impact - Although the project has been affected by sericus
drought, particularly in the last three years, the yield perfcrmance in the
first two years of harvest has been satisfactcry and widespread tree death has
been avoided. Hcwever, in view cf the continuing effects cf droughts, and
pcssible shortages of input supplies if the economic situaticn in the country
is not corrected, yields at full maturity cculd drop below expectations (by
10%-20%). The revised ERR at cempleticn of Phase I is 11% as compared with
16.6% at appraisal. Social impact is significant in the emplcyment of cver
600 Ghanaian workers and staff, and the contributions to increasing incomes of
318 smallholder/cutgrower families. Taken together they represent about 6,400
people.
3.10     Lessons Learnt - Two major factcrs contributing to the success of
Phase I were (1) the autonomy and the freedom from constraints cf normal civil
service procedures, which allowed the project tc organize efficiently its
operaticns in land clearing and development, crop producticn, transportation,
processing and marketing; and (2) the recruitment of a competent management
team. Other lessons which can be learned are (a) the need fcr firm arrange-
ments tc have the required land before project start-up; (b) the difficulties
in having a stable labor fcrce when workers live cver a wide area without easy
tranispert to and from work and when they cannot secure from the area the basic
foodstuffs required for their families; (c) the importance of giving local
staff training special attention and nct leaving it tc be "fitted in" with
other project activities; and (d) the need to have at an early stage the
confidence and suppert of the small farmers whc are to benefit from the
project. All these considerations have been taken into account in the design
of Phase II.
IV. PROJECT RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES
4.01     Phase I of the Oil Palm Development Project is now at an important
stage in its development. Estate plantings are completed and harvesting has
started in the older fields. A similar situation exists with regard to
smallholder/outgrower plantings and a well organized fruit collection and
payment system is now to be organized and implemented. A 15 ton ffb/hr



- 12 -
capacity cil mill has been constructed and has begun cperaticns. While the
project's training program has covered adequately the needs cf intermediate
and junior staff, enough qualified and experienced Ghanaians have nct been
found at this stage to take over effective ccntrol of the project's manage-
ment, estate and mill operations and outside management help is still
required.
4.02     The country has unsatisfied demand for palm oil and palm oil products
(Chapter VIII). Complications arising in the course of Phase I over the
acquisiticn of land required for the nucleus estate has led to the conclusion
that it is not feasible at this stage to extend the plantation area further as
originally envisaged. However, while the initial experience in attracting
cutgrowers to the scheme may not have been as encouraging as originally
expected (para. 3.01), outgrower percepticns have now changed and the estate
and smallholder 1/ development of the current project is now having
considerable impact on the surrounding farming population. Already there is a
marked interest among Phase I cutgrowers to extend their oil palm plantings
under Phase II. Moreover, with the cil mill in operation and as the expected
substantial increase in income of present smallholders/cutgrowers is observed,
the number of new outgrower participants is expected to increase rapidly. Sc
far, over 900 additional farmers have applied to become outgrowers. Small-
holder and Outgrower establishment would, therefore, appear to offer the best
prosipect for future oil palm development, rather than further expansion of the
nucleus plantation. Regarding future development of the oil palm sectcr, the
desirability of establishing small village oil mills as alternatives to large
central mills would be examined. During Phase II, information will be
collected (para. 5.11 (a)) concerning outgrower further potential (e.g. size
of farms, labor availability, family composition, soil quality, crops cul-
tivated, etc.) in the project area in crder to determine the feasibility cf
developing cutgrower schemes around small rural mills.
Alternatives Considered
4.03     As the Bank grcup is already involved in the development of food
crops and the rehabilitation of major export subsectors like cocca and timber,
a repeat of projects in these subsectors is not warranted at this time. In
this context, and in view of the success of Phase I, the Phase II Oil Palm
Project is a priority investment. Within the project itself the major design
alternatives considered were the expansion of the nucleus estate versus
expansion of outgrowers. For reasons explained in para 4.02, the outgrower
approach is preferred.
4.04     A Phase II project would extend smalLholder/cutgrower plantings and
bring the mill to full production. In view o' the present state cf the
Ghanaian economy, the timing cf Phase II is important to ensure continued
coverage of development expenditures and staff salaries, as well as a smooth
transition from Phase I to II. Under Phase II, additional training of quali-
fied Ghanaian staff will be continued to prov-de them with the required
1/   For definiticn of cutgrowers and smallhclders, see para. 3.06.



- 13 -
technical background and in-service experience to ensure an eventual and
orderly take-over cf the project's operaticns from the current expatriate
management.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
4.05     IDA involvement in the propcsed Phase II project would be important
from beth sectoral and project points of view. Continued Bank Grcup invelve-
menl; in the sectcr, including policy review, strategy of development, pro-
duction cf improved planting material and improved technology for planting,
mainiteniance, harvesting and collection, would be important. Frem the project
point of view cil palm is an important crop in the strategy of diversification
of the production base (which is overwhelmingly dominated by cocoa at pre-
sent). With a large unsatisfied demand for palm oil for both edible and in-
dustrial purpcses, substantial opportunities for import substitution exist.
It is important to continued development of the investments made under the
Phase I project, which is regarded as the most successful Bank Group financed
agricultural project in Ghana.
V. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
5.01     The proposed project constitutes a second phase to the recently
completed Phase I of the Oil Palm Development Project (Cr. 531-GH) (para
3.01). Initial mention cf a possible second phase was made in the Appraisal
report of the Phase I of the project and preparation was carried out in
October 1980 by FAO/CP staff in collaboration with members cf an IDA mission
supervising the project.
5.02     The project would be carried cut by the Ghana Oil Palm Development
Corporation (GOPDC) over a five-year period (1984-1988) and would comprise:
(a)  the development of 2,500 ha of new outgrower plantings;
(b)  the expansion of the oil mill capacity from 15 ton ffb/hr to 25 ton
ffb/hr;
(c)  continuaticn of international management expertise;
(d)  consolidaticn of Phase I development of nucleus estate and small
holders/outgrowers by providing vehicles, equipment, housing,
and inputs for plantings not yet in bearing;
(e)  practical training of Ghanaians in technical and management aspects
cf the project and provision of consultants' services for special and
general studies and training; and



- 14 -
(f) suppcrt for OPRC's research program thrcugh provision of vehicles,
equipment, materials, cverseas training and consultant's assistance
fcr OPRC.
B. Detailed Features
5.03     Outgrewers/Smallhclders Scheme.  Outgrowers and smallholders wculd
plant some 2,500 ha cf cil palm cver a five-year period at the rate of 600 ha
in Year 2, 700 ha in Years 3 and 4 and 500 ha in Year 5. The project would
recruit as many farmers as possible from within and arcund the GOPDC con-
cessicn area which is accessible by trucks from the estate. This is the most
likely source of participants since the demonstraticn impact of Phase I is
most direct on the immediate outlying community.  Other outgrowers would be
selected along portions of the three existing motorable rcads 1/ leading to
the nucleus plantation and within a 25 km radius of the estate. Outgrowers'
plantaticns would have to be located no further than 0.4 km from the above
mentioned roads as ffb would be mostly headloaded by farmers to the selected
collection pcints. The project would construct 75 km of new access roads to
serve new outgrowers. The roads would be maintained by the project. Road
construction and maintenance equipment would be financed by the project.
Vehicles, equipment and farm inputs, including inputs for Phase I smallholder/
outgrower plantings not yet in bearing, will be provided.
5.04     GOPDC will continue its nursery for seedlings to distribute tc out-
growers. Pregerminated seed will be imported from proven suppliers in the
Ivory Ccast. In order tc be ready fcr the 1985 plantings the nursery prepara-
tion was started in early 1984.
5.05     Palm Oil Mill.  The project would provide housing, vehicles and
equipment for transporting the palm cil, extending the mill capacity and
equipping the mill workshop. The present mill capacity of 15 ton ffb/hr will
be adequate for the expected production up to 1987 by which time the capacity
will be extended to 25 ton ffb/hr. Consultants will be employed tc design the
extension, assist with the tendering procedures and monitor the construction
which should be completed in time for the 1988 harvest. International compe-
titive bidding procedures will be followed in constructing the mill extension.
5.06     Project Headquarters and Management.  The project would continue to
finance 25 man-months of management by an internationally recognized firm
experienced in oil palm plantation and oil mill management as under Phase I
(paras. 6.01 and 6.02). The practical training program described in para.
5.10 would assist in a smocth transfer of management to lceal staff. In
addition, housing, vehicles and cffice equipment would be provided for the
additional local staff required under Phase II.
1/   The Asuom-Twiapiasi-Bcmso road; the Asuom-Abaam-Abodum road; and the
Otumi-Abompe-Subi road.



- 15 -
5.07     Nucleus Plantaticn.  The prcject would provide for ccnsclidaticn cf
Phase I development of the nucleus estate. With harvesting cf estate and
smallholder/cutgrower plantings having begun in 1982, the fruit ccllecticn
system formulated under Phase I would be implemented in full and bcth estate
and smallholder/cutgrower ffb would be ccllected from rcadside ccllection
pcints by tipper trucks equipped with cranes. An estimated 24 trucks would be
required by the last year cf Phase II (1988). Each collection point would be
equipped with weighing nets. Trucks, nets, harvesting tocls, replacements fcr
Phase I vehicles and equipment, and their required spare parts, would be
financed under the project.
5.08     A significant item to be financed under Phase II would be plantation
wcrkers' housing. At full development, the estate would emplcy a permanent
work fcrce of about 800 workers required mostly fcr estate maintenance and
harvesting operations. One cf the recurrent problems of Phase I has been the
high level of absenteeism of estate workers. A major reason for this situa-
tion is the lack of adequate permanent housing for workers, many of whom live
in the cutlying areas, some at considerable distances from the estate, and who
must be transported daily to the project. In view of the high cost of
housing, the irregular supply cf cement in Ghana and the large number cf
housing units tc be built, equipment fcr a brick plant which was purchased by
Government during Phase I, will be installed in the project area where a
suitable source of clay exists. The possible reduction in housing costs as a
result cf the brick plant construction has been taken intc account in costing
Phase II housing program. Provision has been made in the housing cost
estimates to continue the services of the local firm cf consulting architects
and engineers tc develop a lower cost design fcr the workers' housing and to
supervise the construction. They will also assist with preparaticn cf bid
specifications, and invitation and evaluation of bids for constructicn.
Approval by IDA of the final design of workers' housing will be required
before disbursements will be made fcr building materials (para 10.04). Past
constructicn experience was used as the basis fcr estimating constructicn
costs of Phase II houses. The housing compcund would be serviced by facili-
ties (hospital, school, stcre, etc.) some cf which have already been built
under Phase I. The Phase II project would also finance farm inputs and
equipment for Phase I plantings not yet in bearing and workshop vehicles and
equipment.
5.09     During the latter part of Phase I implementaticn, fcod had become sc
scarce in the project area that it was sericusly affecting the reliability of
the labor fcrce. The project was able however tc secure some essential fcod
supplies from the World Fcod Program (WFP) which it sold to estate workers and
staff and to cutgrowers/smallhclders. Labor absenteeism as a result drepped
significantly cn the nucleus estate. The WFP assistance played a major role
in the achievement of the project targets. With the continuing scarcity and
high prices of fcod, the project will need tc continue the food supply program
in order to stabilize the labor force. The WFP has given assurances that it
would again provide during the next three years some cf the food needs of the
project area but with the understanding that this assistance will be tapered
off and stcpped at the end cf the third year, and that the project will take
measures to complement the WFP supplies. The project has therefcre committed
itself to grow during Phase II about 40 ha/yr in maize, plantains, cocoyams



- 16 -
and cassava which will be sold to estate workers and staff. The input
requirements for the 40 ha fcod farm are relatively small quantities of seed,
fertilizers, pesticides and tools and financing of the foreign components is
taken into account in the input requirements for the Phase II.
5.10     Training.  In-service technical training for project staff begun
under Phase I will continue under Phase II. However, special emphasis would
be given tc providing key senior staff with the managerial, financial and
technical skills required tc ensure the satisfactory take-cver by Ghanaians of
GOPDC's operations. Moreover, the borrower has agreed that as an autonomous
ccrporaticn GOPDC may raise salaries tc whatever level necessary tc retain
qualified staff. Mcst of the training would concentrate cn the practical
aspects ("in service" training) cf running a medium-scale agro-industrial
complex. For this purpcse, training consultants (para. 5.11(b)) in such
fields as management and finance and plantaticn and factcry operaticns would
be hired to prepare cn-the-job training programs. These consultants would
also be called upon tc give cn-site specialized ccurses in their field of
expertise as well as provide the necessary supervision and follow-up of
training programs during project period.  To complement the above cn-site
training, project staff will be sent cn training visits abrcad tc well-
established industrial plantaticns including those in neighboring ccuntries.
Pricrity would be given tc accountancy and management training. Scme 16 man-
mcnths fcr such visits by GOPDC staff have been provided under the project.
5.11     Consultant Services.  The project would provide up to 49 man-months
cf short-term consultant services to assist the project in the following
areas:
(a) Outgrower Survey: The project would finance ccllection of in-depth
and detailed information concerning untapped outgrower potential
in the project area. A consultant with experience in cutgrower
development, would be employed to carry out a survey with the
assistance of project staff in the project area. This would also
include an cn-going evaluation to assess project's impact cn outgrow-
ers. His evaluation and interpretation cf the results would serve as
the basis for further development of the project's outgrower program
and fcr a feasibility study for a pcssible Phase III project (3 man-
mcnths);
(b) Training: Three consultants with specializations in management and
finance (8 man-mcnths), plantation operations (8 man-months) and cil
mill operations (4 man-months) would be hired by the project to
assist in setting up training programs for key GOPDC Ghanaian per-
sonnel and to provide on-site training courses in the first two years
and supervise and follow-up the training program in subsequent years
(para 5.10);
(c) Phase II Completion Report: A consultant would be emplcyed in the
last year of the project to assess and prepare a report on the pro-
ject's cperaticns to be submitted to Government and IDA (2 man-
months);



- 17 -
(d) Phase III Feasibility and Preparaticn Study: This should be prepared
in the fourth year of the Project tc cover further expansicn of this
project and cil palm development elsewhere (e.g. as identified by
FAO/CP) (4 man-mcnths);
(e) Suppcrt tc Government: General studies, as agreed by IDA, cf future
agricultural projects (8 man-mcnths tc be phased cver project
period); and
(f) Research: Consultants would help develop a program for research at
OPRC and monitor its progress (12 man-months).
5.12     Most consultants are likely to be recruited internationally but
efforts would be made to encourage participation by local consultants, con-
sulting firms or other qualified instituticns. It was agreed at negotiations
that, prior to engaging any consultant, the detailed terms of reference for
their employment would be reviewed by and agreed with IDA; consultants
appointed would have qualifications, experience and terms and conditicns of
appointment satisfactory to IDA, and consultants' reports would be promptly
submitted to IDA for review.
5.13     Research.  Ghana's oil palm expansion program is presently based on
imported seed and pcorly selected local seed. Since oil palm expansion is
likely to continue as an element of the country's diversification and self-
sufficiency program, the production of high quality planting material
specifically bred for Ghanaian conditions and information on suitable hus-
bandry methods and pest and disease control is essential. To achieve an
effective breeding and seed production program, the installations and equip-
ment at OPRC have to be renovated and enlarged. The project would assist by
providing equipment, materials and imported seed for the artifical pollina-
ticio, seed preparaticn and storage and bunch analysis units. Present propos-
als suggest that initially OPRC would work towards a planting program of 50 ha
of 1;rials annually and a revision of the seed production program tc produce
1.3 million improved seeds annually. The project would alsc finance labora-
tory equipment for entomology, physiology, pathology, scil and foliar analysis
and agronomy. A new laboratory building is near completion. Some vehicles
and field equipment would also be provided under the project. It is presently
expected that Ghanaians will be available for vacant positions at OPRC.
Eighteen man months of overseas training would be provided for the profes-
siorLal staff and technicians. Eight man months of consultants services would
be previded tc help develop a program (para 1.09) including training priori-
ties, give advice during its execution and monitor its progress.
5.14     Although the broad lines and needs of such a research program have
been mapped cut by the IRHO consultant (para 3.08) and station staff it is
still necessary to determine the priorities and rate of development of each
section in the light of prevailing financial circumstances in Ghana which
affect the degree to which the necessary operating costs for the improved
program can be met. With existing operating costs much more could be obtained
from present staff if improved facilities are provided; further funding or
shifts/savings in existing expenditures would be necessary, however, if the
facilities in the new laboratories are to be fully utilized and the Government



- 18 -
will be required to address this. The plantaticn and field trials will only
be effective if Government prcvides sufficient funds fcr their cperations and
the replacement of equipment. It was agreed at negetiaticns that Government
would cause OPRC to draw up and submit to IDA for review, a five-year research
and station work program which would be costed. The financing of its opera-
ticns must be determined and guaranteed by Government. The program and its
financing would have to be acceptable to IDA as a condition of disbursement of
part cf IDA credit earmarked for OPRC (except for consultants).
C. Cost Estimates 1/
5.15     Total project costs over the five-year development period 1984-88
including PPF cf US$860,000 are estimated at US$35.9 million cf which US$22.1
millicn cr about 62% would be fcreign costs. Project costs include an esti-
mated 061.3 millicn (about US$1.8 million) of identifiable taxes and duties on
fuel, lubricants and cther locally purchasable items but exclude all other
taxes and duties. Base costs are estimated using prices fcr gcods and
services cbtained during appraisal updated to reflect prices at April 1984.
Foreign exchange base costs and physical contingencies have been converted at
the cfficial rate cf exchange of US$1.00=035.00. Project costs include: (a)
physical contingencies equal to 10% cf base costs for civil works and 5% for
all other items except salaries and wages; (b) price contingencies for local
costs at 30% fcr 1984, and 20% fcr 1985, and 15% fcr 1986-1988 compounded
annually; (c) price contingencies fcr foreign costs at 3.5% fcr 1984, 8.0% fcr
1985 and 9% fcr 1986-1988. 2/ Tctal physical and price contingencies
calculated on the foregoing basis are equivalent to 22% cf total and 29% of
base costs as measured in US dollars. Details of project costs are at
Annex 5.1 and summarized below:
1/   The figures in Section C tc E and in tables 1 tc 3 are based cn an
exchange rate of #35=US$1.00 which came into effect on March 26, 1984.
The figures in the supporting tables in the Annexes are calculated at
the previous rate of #30=US$1.00.
2/   Price contingencies, initially calculated in local terms, have been
converted tc US dollars using exchange rates that correct the difference
between the expected high rate cf domestic inflation and the expected
trends in World inflaticn.



- 19 -
Table 1:  Sumnary of project costs
Base  Project
Local  Foreiga  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Costs   Cost
-   I¢ miLion)--  -US$ ;11on)-              - ~%)-
Project HQRS and Management   39.0   60.6   99.6    1 .1  1 .7    2.8    10       8
Nucleus Plntation        189.4  253.1   442.5   5.4    7.3   12.7    47          36
Outgrowers/Smalholders
Scheme                  44.7   100.8  145.5   1.3    2.9    4.2    16          12
Palm 0l Mill              29.0  160.8  189.3   0.8    4.6    5.4    20           15
Trang and Consultancy      -      30.8   30-8    -       0.9    0.9      3        2
Research                   5.5   63.2   68.7   0.2    1.8    2.0         7        5
Baseline Costs       307.6  637.3  944.9   8.8   19.2   28.0   100           75
Physical Contingencies   18.6   32.2   50.8   0.5    0.9    1.4      5        4
Price Contirngecies    204.5   92-7  297.2   4.5    2.0    6.5    24         18
Total Project Costs    530.6  793.7 1 ,324.3  13.8   22.1   35.9   132'    100
A A/
Percentage                                  38.0   62.0    1X00
D. Proposed Financing
5.16     The proposed IDA Credit of US$25.0 million would finance 70% of total
project costs of US$35.9 million (01,324 million), to cover US$22.1 million or
100% of foreign exchange costs and US$2.9 million or 21% of local costs. The
PPF of US$0.9 million is included in total project costs. GOPDC, whose
revenues from the sale of palm oil and kernels started flowing in from 1983 is
in a position to cover its operating expenditures for Phase I. However, due
to non-availability of imported vehicle and equipment spare parts in Ghana and
the distinct possibility that project implementation would be adversely
affected if these spare parts were not externally financed, an amount equiva-
lent to estimated spare parts requirements during the project period for Phase
I operations has been included in project costs. From its operating surplus
GOPDC would also be able to finance a part of housing costs and other local
investment costs not covered by IDA and Government financing. GOPDC would
finance from its own earnings some 0318 million of the project's local costs
representing 25.3% of total costs in cedis and 65.9% of local costs in cedis.
Government would finance 045.5 million (US$1.3 million) or 3.6% of total cedi
costs and 9.4% of local cedi costs. To maintain its cash flow GOPDC would
borrow from a commercial bank 042.0 million in 1985/86. This would finance a
part of first year housing construction program of GOPDC. It was agreed at
negotiations that in the event that GOPDC would not, for some reason, be in a
position to finance its estimated share of project costs, Government would
increase its contribution by the required amount. It was also agreed that
Government would provide the necessary foreign exchange to enable GOPDC to



20 -
import recurrent operating materials required for the mill and estate and
smallholders'/outgrowers' plantings. The remaining local costs of US$18.0
million (US$0.5 million) would be financed by smallholders/outgrowers as their
share of farm labor costs. This amount is about 1.4% of total project costs.
A summary of the proposed financing plan is shown in Table 2 and details are
at Annex 5.2.
5.17     IDA funds for OPRC estimated at US$2.0 million (070.0 million) would
be passed on as a grant to OPRC. A sum of US$0.2 million (07.0 million) would
be available to Ministry of Agriculture for fiLnancing consultants for studies
relating to future agricultural projects in Ghana. These studies would be
identified and undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture with the concurrence
of IDA. IDA funds for GOPDC would be passed on by the Government to GOPDC in
the form of both equity and long-term loans. IJS$3.2 million (0112.0 million)
of IDA would be contributed by Government as equity to GOPDC. In addition,
GOG would provide, from its own resources or f'rom borrowings from commercial
banks, US$1.3 million (045.5 million) as equity. IDA funds totalling US$19.6
million (0686.0 million) would be onlent by GOG to GOPDC initially at 12.5%
p..a for 15 years including 7 years grace period for principal repayment.
Although this rate of interest is negative in real terms it is in accordance
with the IMF agreement with Ghana of October 1983, and would be adjusted on
the basis subsequent changes in interest rates established by the Central Bank
of Ghana for agricultural loans. GOPDC will provide the equivalent of US$9.1
million of investment funds from its operations. During the period corpora-
tion tax payments will have been the equivalent of about 0268 million (US$7.7
million) and the cumulative net surplus to Government from the project will be
about 0788 million (US$22.5 million) (Annex 5.3). Government therefore would
not have to divert funds from other sources tc meet its contribution of US$1.3
million, to Phase II. The execution of a subsidiary financing agreement
between GOG and GOPDC covering equity and loan, arrangements specified above
would be a condition of credit effectiveness. It was agreed during negotia-
tions that any subsequent change in the financing agreement between GOG and
GOPDC would be acceptable to IDA.
Table 2: PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Smallholders/
Items                    IDA       GOPDC    GOG   Outgrowers   Total
Local                    2.9        9.1      1.3      0.5         13.8
Foreign                 22.1         -        -        -          22.1
Total                   25.0        9.1      1.3      0.5         35-9
% of local costs        21.8       65.9      9.4      3.6         100%
% of foreign costs       100         -        -        -          100%
% of total costs        69.6       25-3      3.6      1.4         100%



- 21 -
E. Procurement
5.18     Special account - The project will require, particularly at the
initial implementation period, relatively small quantities of spare parts,
tools, equipment, input supplies and other materials most of which would be
difficult to acquire locally because of the constraints on foreign currency
and the difficulty of local agents maintaining adequate stocks. As a condi-
tion for credit effectiveness a US dollar account (special account) would be
established in the Ghana Commercial Bank. Advances will be made to this
special account from the proposed credit. The initial advance would be
US$700,000. Disbursements from the account would cover IDA's share of
expenditures for consultancy and training, small equipment, tools, machinery,
spare parts, input supplies and other materials purchased in quantities of
less than US$10,000. The special account would be replenished periodically on
the approval of authorized requests. Justification for disbursements made out
of the account would be submitted prior to replenishment, and a separate
annual audit by an external auditor would be provided. The maintenance of
this account would ensure the expeditious acquisitions of essential items of
equipment, tools, spare parts, input supplies and other materials required in
small quantities and which cannot be easily obtained locally. It would thus
avoid unnecessary delays in project implementation. Procurement arrangements
are summarized in table 3 below:
Table 3: Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(in US$ million)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                     ICB    LCB    Other       NA        Cost
Vehicles, Equipment, Spare         10.0    7.3      7,3       __       24.6
Parts, Furniture and            (9-7)  (1.3)   (2.9)               (13-9)
Building Materials
Farm Inputs                         4.0    --       3.2       --        7.2
(3.8)   --      (5.2)              (7-0)
Management and Consultancy          --      -       2.9       --        2.9
Services, and Training            -              (2.9)               (2.9)
Assistance to Ministry                              0.3        -        0.3
of Agriculture                    --             (o.3)               (0o3)
PPF Refinancing                      _      __      __0.9               0.9
(0.9)    (0.9)
Total                              14.0    7.3    15.7        0. a    ____2
IDA                               (13-5)  (1.3)   (943)    (0.9)   (25.0)
Note - Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA.



- 22 -
5.19     All goods and services financed under the IDA Credit would be pro-
cured in accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts for vehicles, equipment
and building materials valued at US$200,000 or more with an aggregate value of
about US$10.0 million including contingencies, would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB). Local competitive bidding (LCB) for
the above-mentioned goods would be employed for contracts between US$50,000
and US$200,000 up to an aggregate value of US$7.3 million. For contracts of
less than US$50,000 for the above mentioned goods, competitive shopping would
be employed; the aggregate cost of procurement of these goods through competi-
tive shopping would be about US$7.6 million. Items for procurement would be
bulked to permit optimum use of competitive bidding. Domestically manufac-
tured goods would be allowed 15% preference, or the applicable duty, whichever
is lower, when comparing bids with those of foreign manufacturers. Major farm
inputs such as fertilizers and other chemicals grouped in packages of over
US$200,000 with an aggregate value of US$4.0 million will be procured through
ICB. Other farm inputs purchased in smaller quantities including seeds, some
chemicals, wirenetting, nursery materials, research materials, miscellaneous
farm tools and spare parts for vehicles and equipment valued in aggregate at
US$3.2 million would be procured through compe-titive shopping since the value
of individual items to be procured in a given year would be relatively
small. Finally, the services of consultants and internationally recruited
staff and training abroad valued at US$3.2 million would be obtained in
accordance with Bank Guidelines and US$0.9 million would be for refinancing
the PPF for Phase II. It was agreed at negotiations that, to ensure prompt
procurement, GOPDC would be allowed, as under Phase I, to contract the
services of internationally recognized procurement agents on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to IDA. For case of Administration Procurement of OPRC
vehicles, equipment, spare parts and materials would be done through GOPDC.
Proposals of overseas training of OPRC staff and consultancy for OPRC would
also be routed through GOPDC.
F. Disbursements
5.20     An estimated schedule of disbursements is at Annex 5.4.  The West
Africa Regional disbursement profile for area development subsector generated
by FPAFA 1/ was used for reference. However, the projected disbursement
schedule differs from this profile because of project-specific considerations
largely based on satisfactory management experience under Phase I and without
the delaying factors such as land acquisition and outgrower hesitance. Dis-
bursements under Phase I are expected to be completed by June 1984 which would
be 8 years from credit effectiveness date. A six year disbursement period has
been projected for Phase II starting from the 2nd quarter of FY85 when the IDA
credit is expected to be effective. Since the present management is expected
to continue under Phase II, no major implementation and disbursement problems
are foreseen. Large disbursements are expected to occur in FY86, FY87 and
1/   Financial Analysis Division of the Financial Policy and Analysis
Department of the Bank.



- 23 -
FY88 as a result of procurement of vehicles and equipment including mill
extension, mostly through ICB (Implementation Schedule, Annex 5-5). Moreover,
a large part of the credit would be for building materials and that is
expected to be disbursed evenly during the five years of project implementa-
tion. This expectation is considered realistic since the housing program is
already in progress under Phase I and no major problems are foreseen for its
completion by the fifth year of Phase II, particularly in view of the fact
that a brick plant is to be installed and IDA Funds will be available for
purchase of imported building materials which would greatly ease the problem
of local availability (para. 5.08).
Disbursement Categories of IDA Credit
Disbursement as
Categories                           Amounts      as % of Expenditure
(USmn)
1. Civil Works, Roads and the Mill             1.5  1lC % of Foreign (CIF) and 70% of
Local Expenditure.
2. B ilding Materials
(a)                                         3.0   10CC of Fbreign (CIF) Expenditure.
(b)                                        0.5   100% of Foreign (CIF) and 70% of
Local Expenditure.
3. Vehicles, Equipment, Spare Parts,           11.0   10C% of Foreign (CIF) and 70% of
Furniture, Fertilizers, Feeds, Wire               Local Expenditure.
Netting, Chemicals, Tools, Nursery
Materials and Other Farm Inputs for
Parts A, B & C of the Project
4. Vehicles, Equipment, Research Materials     2.0   100X of Fbreign (CIF) and 7C% of
and Spare Parts for Part E of the Project         Local Expenditures.
5. Consltant Services and Training Abroad      3.2   100%
of Local Staff
6. Special Account for Revolving Fund to       0.7
Cover Spare Parts, Seeds, Chemicals, Tools
and other input supplies p2rchased in
malI quantities
7. Refinancing of PPF                          0.9
8. Unallocated                                 2.2
25.0



- 24 --
5.21     It would be a condition of disbursement against all items relating to
OPRC (except consultants) that OPRC will have drawn up a research program of
OPRC, acceptable to IDA (para. 5.14).  Disbursements would be fully documented
except for the following which would be under statements of expenditure;
(a) civil works by force account; (b) civil works contracts under $50,000
equivalent; (c) contracts for goods under $10,000 equivalent; and (d) payments
of less than $10,000 for training and consultants.
G. Programming, Budgeting, Accounts and Audits
5.22     Annual budgets and estimates of quarterly cash requirements have been
prepared satisfactorily by GOPDC under the first phase project ard these
practices will be continued. Moreover, at the time the annual work program
and budget are prepared, GOPDC would prepare ia procurement program for the
coming year, giving items and quantities required, preliminary estimates,
foreign exchange required, sources of funds, timing and method of procurement
(whether ICB or other).  This program would be submitted along with the annual
budget to Government for approval and IDA for information. On the basis of
the annual budget and procurement program, Government, and exclusive of
amounts under the subsidiary financial agreement, would (a) make appropriate
allocations in the MOA budget and, thereafter, would release to GOPDC all
necessary funds quarterly in advance as per cash flow statements; and
(b) allocate the necessary foreign exchange (para. 5.16) along the lines of
the approved procurement program.  The provisions above were agreed at
negotiations.
5.23     Accounts have been maintained and aucdits carried out satisfactorily
under Phase I. Similar practices will continue under Phase II. Moreover, in
addition to sending to !DA certified copies of the audited accounts, within
six months of the financial year end,  the exlternal auditors would forward
their management report on the status and quality of the accounts. They would
also include a statement that funds provided under the IDA Credit had been
used for their intended purpose and an opinionrt on the use of funds under
statements of expenditure. Assurances ensuriLng adoption of the above
practices were obtained at negotiations.
VI. MANAGEMENT, ORGANIZATICN AND STAFFING
A. Management
6.01     As under Phase I, the project will te implemented by GOPDD, except
for the parts under OPRC and the iMlinistry of Agriculture. The GOPDC Interim
Management Committee (IMC) will continue to formulate policy in accordance
with the Corporation's commercial objectives. Day to day management would be
carried out as under Phase I by an internationally recognized firm experienced
in oil palm management. In view of the experience already acquired and in
order to ensure a smooth continuation from Phase I to II, it is probable that



- 25 -
Government would retain the services of the present management firm by
extending its contract for at least three years of Phase II. It would be a
condition of effectiveness that GOPDC has entered into a contract with a firm
experienced in oil palm plantation management and mill operations and in
accordance with Bank Guidelines.
B. Organizaticn and Staffing
6.02     GOPDC is a public corporation, established specifically fcr the
purpose of implementing this oil palm project. It is wholely owned by the
Government of Ghana but it is expected to operate along business lines and
generate profits from the investment. In this regard it is allowed autonomy
in its day tc day operations, with a Bcard of Directors, more recently
replaced by an Interim Management Committee (IMC), providing policy directives
tc the management. A management firm has been retained on contract to provide
management and technical services. Together with its respcnsibilities fcr
providing technical support to the project, the management firm alsc provides
the project's key senior staff, namely: Managing Director, Agricultural
Manager, Mill Manager, Mechanical Engineer, and Financial Controller. It was
agreed at negotiations that any change in the appcintment of project key
staff, including new appointments, would be acceptable to IDA.
6.03     The GOPDC Board was dissolved in 1982 and replaced by the IMC consti-
tuted under the Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC) law #6 with a
different membership structure comprising representatives of GOPDC senior and
middle management and workers. The Board and later the IMC worked well during
Phase I although IMC could have benefitted from counsel of representatives
from the Ministry of Planning and Finance and of Agriculture on its member-
ship. It is the policy of GOG to retain IMCs for all Government corpora-
tions. The IMC has the powers to coopt additicnal members and assurances will
be sought at negotiations that GOPDC will coopt a representative each from the
Ministries of Planning and Finance and of Agriculture cn the IMC. Discussions
will be entered with GOG on the merits and prospects for privatization of
GOPDC and the desirability of the Outgrowers/Smallholders as well as employees
to play an active role in the policies of GOPDC commercial objectives.
Consideration will fccus on the possibility cf Outgrowers/Smallholders and the
employees acquiring shares in GOPDC. Mechanisms and terms by which shares may
be acquired such as by deducticns from value of fruit sold to the mill and
from wages in case cf employees, or direct cash purchases from local private
interests, would be examined.
6.04     The organization chart of GOPDC (IBRD chart No. 23341) reflects the
organizaticnal structure likely tc be in place in the middle of Phase II
implementation. Under Phase I the expatriate Plantation Manager controlled
both nucleus estate and smallholders/outgrowers program.  A similar arrange-
ment under Phase II will continue for sometime under the Agricultural Manager
in the interests of training cf Ghanaian staff. However, with the growing
workload cf harvesting on the nucleus estate and expansion of outgrowers
program under Phase II, it would be necessary tc split these functions and
create a Smallholders/Outgrowers section to be headed by a Manager and under



- 26 -
the overall control of the Agricultural Manager. This reorganization would
create possibilities for early promotion of capable and experienced Ghanaian
staff of GOPDC.
C. The Outgrower Scheme
6.05     As under Phase I, GOPDC would be responsible for all aspects of the
outgrower scheme including loan appraisal, procurement and delivery of inputs
and planting materials, extension services, supervision, credit and ffb col-
lection. The scheme will be supervised by the Smallholders/Outgrowers Mana-
ger. The Credit Officer in project headquarters will liaise closely with the
Smallholders/Outgrowers Manager. Technical appraisal of applicants will be
performed by Field Supervisors and financial appraisal by the Credit Officer
in consultation with local commercial banks or ADB where the potential
borrower has been an ADB client. Outgrower loans will be approved by a loan
committee chaired by the Agricultural Manager in the early years of the pro-
ject and by the Smallholders/Outgrowers Manager in later years (para 6.04).
The committee would include the seniormost staff member of the Smallholders/
Outgrowers Section in the early years of the project, the Credit Officer and
representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and ADB.
6.06     Participating outgrowers will be limited to those with land suitable
for oil palm that is adjacent to a motorable road (existing or to be con-
structed under Phase II) leading to the Kwae nucleus estate and within a 25 km
radius of Kwae (para 5.07). Credit will be available to participating out-
growers through the fourth year of planting in the form of (a) 100% of
planting material, fertilizers and other inputs in kind charged at cost, and
(b) cash for up to 80% of estimated labor requirements based on prevailing
wage rates for rural unskilled labor. GOPDC will be responsible for fruit
collection and, as under Phase I, outgrowers will enter into a loan agreement
with GOPDC which will include a commitment to sell all ffb from trees planted
with the assistance of the loan to GOPDC for processing at the central mill;
loans will be recovered from the proceeds of such sales. If outgrowers'
plantings are not managed properly by outgrowers, GOPDC will have the option
to take over the management of the plantings or appoint agents to manage them
at the expense of the outgrowers until the loans had been repaid. The out-
grower loan agreement form devised under Phase I incorporating above condi-
tions is acceptable to IDA and will be continued under Phase II except for
changes in loan terms (para 6.08) which will be incorporated. Assurances to
this effect will be sought at negotiations. It was agreed, as in Phase I,
that Government, in order to confirm the outgrowers' security of tenure, would
take appropriate action to ensure that the proprietory interest of each out-
grower in land to be planted with the assistance of GOPDC loan would be duly
defined and recorded with appropriate land registry offices prior to the loan
being made.
6.07     In keeping with Government's objective of promoting smallholder
development, the outgrowers' program will be geared to the smaller farmers.
To ensure this, it was agreed at negotiations that GOPDC loan would, as a
general rule, be limited to planting a total of 8 ha per outgrower family



- 27 -
unit. This general rule would be relaxed only if the outgrower family size is
considerably larger than the average (6 members) and the outgrower is con-
sidered capable of managing the larger planting properly. However, under
Phase I, the average outgrower planting of oil palm was 4.25 ha and the
average size under Phase II is expected to be about the same.
6.08     When the Government came into power in 1981 interest rates on agri-
cultural loans were reduced from 20% to 8% for seasonal loans and 9% for
medium term loans. In October 1983 they were revised to 12.5%. Inflation in
1984 is projected to be 30%. The interest rates are thus significantly nega-
tive in real terms and it is expected that as a result of current discussions
between the Government and IMF the interest rate structure will be revised
upwards. It was agreed at negotiations that loans to outgrowers would be
given for 13 years with interest rate initially at 12.5% p.a. and a 6 year
grace period during which interest would be capitalized. Interest alone will
be paid in years 7 and 8 and interest plus capital will be paid in the
following 5 years in equal annual installments. There will be an annual
review of interest rates to outgrowers. In conducting this review GOPDC
should ensure that the interest rate charged on new commitments is: (i) con-
sistent with the rate then being charged for agricultural loans by the Central
Bank of Ghana; and (ii) sufficient to cover its costs of supporting out-
growers, including extension services. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that GOPDC would obtain IDA approval before any changes were made in the
agreed lending terms and arrangements for outgrowers credit.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
6.09     Under this  project, management, with the technical support and
supervision of an international consulting firm should continue as under
Phase I to monitor progress and costs of development. Monitoring and evalua-
tion procedures, which have been established under Phase I, and which are
satisfactory, would be maintained. On-going evaluation would be made in the
course of the Outgrower Survey, a possible Phase III Feasibility and
Preparation Study and Phase II Completion Report (para. 5.11).
E. Reporting
6.10     As under Phase I, GOPDC will continue to provide to Government
monthly reports of field activity and progress. There will also be quarterly
reports of the financial situation in the form of a cash flow statement
showing the results of the previous quarter and forecasts for the coming
quarter and remainder of the fiscal year. Budgets and procurement programs
will be submitted annually to Government and IDA (para. 5.23) and quarterly
progress reports showing actual results against estimates will be provided to
Government and IDA within eight weeks of the end of the fiscal quarter.



- 28 -
F. Status of Engineering
6.11     (a) The mill extension would be made during 1986 and 1987 to be ready
for the peak 1988 harvest. The design of the existing mill made prevision for
space in the millhouse for this expected extension. Consultants will be
employed by GOPDC for the design of the extensicn, the preparation of specifi-
caticns and the supervision of construction. They will also assist GOPDC with
the process of contractor prequalifications, bid invitation and evaluation,
all of which will be in accordance with IBRD guidelines for ICB and satisfac-
tory to IDA. (b) The additional workers housing would be undertaken by local
contractors with proven capacity for such work who would be selected under
local competitive bidding procedures. The design of the existing houses is
tco elaborate and GOPDC would employ a firm of consulting architects who will
produce a simplified design which will satisfy local housing regulations and
be more suited tc the intended users. Disbursements with IDA funds for
building workers houses would not be made unless IDA is satisfied with the
modified house design. IDA funds would be used to purchase imported materials
up to 30% of total costs. The extension of offices, stores, workshops and the
health clinic would follow existing designs, with necessary modifications in
acecrdance with recent experience. A local firm of consulting architects
would be retained for preparation of drawings, securing approval of planning
authorities, and preparing bid specifications. The firm of architects would
assist GOPDC in calling for bids, evaluating the bids, and supervising
construction. (c) The fruit collection and feeder roads would be constructed
by the Roads Unit of GOPDC. The road design will be standardized, simple and
low cost, following experience during Phase 1. The minimum specifications are
in Annex 7.3. The roads to be constructed in Year 1 for Phase II outgrowers-
12 km, are already identified (para 7.08) and would generally follow existing
tracks or traces used by farmers, with improvements in alignment, gradient and
drainage as warranted. The selection of roads to be constructed in Year 2-5
will be made in acecrdance with the expected density of oil palms tc be served
and in no case less than 10 ha/km or a minimum rate of return of 14%.
VII.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND TECHNOLOGICAL SPECIFICATIONS
A. Production and Yields
7.01     In order to obtain early and high yielding palms, the planting
material will continue to be of the Tenera variety (hybrid between Deli dura
and African pisifera). Pre-germinated seed will be flown in from Ivory Coast
as availability cf Tenera variety from OPRC is extremely limited. In Ivcry
Coast yields reach about 17t ffb/ha per year on well managed estates planted
with Tenera.  Climatic conditions are not as good in Ghana.  Mcreover, yields
thrcughout West Africa have consistently fallen below technical maximums. As
a result, it is estimated that yields at full bearing for the nucleus estate
will be about 11.5 ffb per hectare and those for smallholders/outgrowers about
7.5 ffb per hectare because cf lower standards of maintenance and less
rigorcus harvesting schedules.



- 29 -
7.02     Harvesting began in 1983, on parts of both the nucleus estate and
smallholder/outgrower plantings. The total production of ffb in 1984 is
expected to be about 13,400 t reaching about 46,000 t in 1988, the last year
of Phase II. By 1995, the combined Phases I and II ffb production would be
reaching its peak with an annual average production estimated at 70,350t
ffb. Some 42,100t or 60% of this total would come from the nucleus estate,
9,800t (14%) from smallholder/outgrower plantings established under Phase I,
and 18,450t (26%) from Phase II outgrowers. Assuming an extraction rate of
20% for oil and 4% for kernels during the peak production period, the project
would then produce 14,100t of palm oil and 2,814t of kernels annually. Basic
assumptions used for the above analysis are at Annex 7.1.
B. Cultivation Techniques
7.03     The anticipated yields are dependent on the adoption of basic tech-
nical practices. The project will therefore have to:
(a) use selected planting material of the Tenera variety;
(b) raise seedlings in two stage polybag nurseries with proper manuring;
(c) cull all abnormal seedlings at the end of both nursery stages;
(d) avoid disturbing the top soil unduly during land clearing and
preparation;
(e) proceed to the early sowing of cover crops;
(f) plant the seedlings exclusively during the rainy season;
(g) control weeds;
(h) protect plants against rodents and disease;
(i) manure sufficiently; and
(j) harvest according to a well-defined schedule.
7.04     Nucleus Estate.  No further plantings on the nucleus estate are
envisaged during Phase II, except for replacement of dead seedlings. The
average rate of replacements is about 5% the first year and 1% the second
year. Missing plants will not be replaced after the second year, because of
excessive competition from the older trees. Plantation management techniques
are now well established and will be continued. The IRHO oil palm specialist
who has regularly visited the plantation, is well satisfied with the current
growth of trees. Girth measurements suggest that the plantings should, at
full maturity, provide yields of 13t ffb per ha, although a more conservative
assumption of 11.5t ffb/ha. has been used. Proper maintenance of the planta-
tion would be essential. This would comprise (i) manual weeding as well as
the use of herbicides when the trees are older; (ii) selective weeding in the
interrows; (iii) pruning to remove dry leaves prior to bearing; and (iv)
applying fertilizers. The following quantities would be recommended per tree:



- 30 -
Fertilizer Recommendaticns
(in kilograms)
Year after           Sulfate of      Superphospate         Muriate of
Planting              Ammcnia                                Pctash
0                   .30 August    .125 August             .25 August
1                  (.35 May        .25  May              (.25 May
(.35 August                          (.25 August
2                  (.25 April      .25  April/MEay       (.50 April
(.25 August
3                  1.00 April      .50  April            1.00 April
4 and over         1.00 March      Nil a/                0.50 August
a/       Leaf analysis would determine whether superphosphate would be re-
quired in the future.
7.05     Outgrowers.  The sequence of operations regarding field development
and maintenance of outgrowers' plantings would be similar to that of the
nucleus estate. Land preparation would be totally manual with GOPDC providing
chainsaw teams for felling and logging large trees. GOPDC would alsc carry
out lining and pegging, census and phytesanitary controls. The input require-
ments per hectare of outgrower plantings are shown at Annex 7.2.
7.06     Labor Requirements.  The average manpower requirements on the nucleus
estate are estimated at about 800 workers at peak producticn. They would be
supervised by 7 tc 8 overseers and 21 to 24 headmen. Labor cn both the small-
holders' and outgrowers' farms has been estimated at 102 mandays per hectare
in year 1 fcr land development and planting, tc 34 mandays in year 5, the
first year of bearing, for maintenance and harvesting cperations.
7.07     Feeder Roads.  The fruit ccllection and feeder rcads will be con-
structed by the roads unit of GOPDC which has the crganization and experience
to undertake such rcads. Some cf the present equipment needs replacement and
this will be funded by the Phase II project. Feeder roads will be constructed
in accordance with agreed standards (Annex 7.3). The fruit collecticn roads
will have a carriage width of 3m and Vee shaped-side ditches 1.5m wide.
Paving will not be necessary but since laterite is prevalent at or near the
surface in much of the area it will be retained cn the cambered rcad surface.
The feeder roads will have a 75-100 mm compacted laterite carriage 4m wide and
for those on high ground or well drained areas the Vee section side ditches
will be not mere than 2.Om wide and provided with frequent turnouts. In low
lying, wet areas, the side ditches will be trapezoided, with the bettom 1.Om
wide and the sides gently sloping and grassed. Culverts, generally concrete,
will be placed as required. Fcr crossing the streams, use will be made of low
concrete causeways or timber decked bridges on steel or log beams resting on
concrete cr gabion abutments, with adequate protective wing walls. In the
design of these rcads emphasis will be placed cn simplicity and least economic
cost. Under the propcsed arrangement for construction, and based cn GOPDC



- 31 -
experience, the cost of feeder roads is estimated at about 0255,000 (US$8,500)
per km; and fruit collection roads at 0104,400 (US$3,480) per km. The mainte-
nance of the feeder roads is estimated at about 012,000 (US$400) per km per
annum.
7.08     The new feeder roads are expected to serve an average of 33 ha of new
oil palm plantings per km of road with a range of between 10 to 50 ha/km. The
ERR for these roads, taking only the benefits from oil palm, is estimated at
20% for the average density of 33 ha/km. At densities of 10 ha per km of
road, the ERR drops to 14%. New roads will not be established in any area
until planting agreements for that area can assure a density of at least 10 ha
per km. Priority will be given to the roads serving the larger areas of new
oil palms. GOPDC has already identified feeder roads to be built in Year 1 in
the areas of Otumi (4 km), Akawani (5 km) and Labikron (3 km) all of which
have a high concentration of farmers and who are expected to plant over 600 ha
in the first two years of the project.
7.09     Environment Impact - The clearing of bush and trees from the land
will generally be done by hand, but in certain circumstances bulldozers may be
used to clear difficult forest areas. GOPDC uses methods of land clearing
which avoids unnecessary disturbance of the soil and maintains the catchments
in sound condition.  These practices will be pursued in the second phase.
Weed control will be done largely by hand slashing, but herbicides may be used
in the first few years for periodic round weeding of plants during the wet
season when weed growth is vigorous.  Other chemicals used are for the control
of sporadic outbreaks of locusts and nursery diseases.  The use of these
chemicals will be carefully regulated, in safe quantities and with adequate
protection to workers and other persons in area. The palm groves will be
interplanted with Pueraria as a cover crop and this will, in addition to
smothering weed growth, improve the environment and the catchment conditions.
7.10     Road cuttings are not expected to be deep but cut and fill slopes and
sides of ditches will be grassed to reduce erosion risks. The replacement of
the forest cover by palm trees and a cover crop and the drainage of wet areas
will reduce the natural habitats of insect carrying diseases of humans and
animals and therefore, reduce the health risks to people and livestock in the
area. The effluent from the mill is being treated in special lagoons and will
not reach natural watercourses and swamps until its solids have been broken
down. The fruit bunch stalks and other waste will be prepared for use in the
boilers to generate steam for running the mill.
VIII. MARKET PROSPECTS, MARKETING, PRICES
AND FINANCIAL ANALYSlS
Production
8.01     Neither the Phase II project's incremental production of 3,750 tons
of palm oil at peak production nor the combined production of Phase I and II
of about 14,000 tons of palm oil is expected to present any problems as re-
gards absorption by the domestic market and the demands placed on marketing



- 32 -
facilities. The incremental production of some 2,800 tons of palm kernels
under Phases I and II would be exported without any difficulty. It will
represent less than 2.0% of total world exports and is unlikely to have any
significant effect on the world supply and prices. The only major exporter of
palm kernel is Nigeria. In the last several years it has not been able to
supply the market and this is reflected in the gradual increase in price.
8.02     Based on assumptions detailed in paras. 1.07 and 1.08, the projected
production of palm oil in 1990 and 2000 from different sources in Ghana,
including GOPDC Phase I and II projects, would be 70,000t and 84,000t respec-
tively (compared to about 21,000t in 1983). These projections are based on
the optimistic assumption that full rehabilitation of SFC plantations would
have taken place in the next two to three years.
Demand
8.03     Domestic demand for palm oil is estimated to be far in excess of
domestic production while imports have fluctuated widely from year to year,
reflecting foreign exchange availability problems.  From about 2,800 tons in
1971, palm oil and palm kernel oil imports rose to about 17,300 tons in 1974,
declined to 3,500 tons in 1975, rose again to 9,500 tons in 1976 and further
to 29,600 tons in 1977.  Available imports figures after 1977 are of doubtful
reliability.  If the average annual imports over 1974-77 of about 14,000 tons
are added to estimated domestic production of about 20,000 tons, the average
annual domestic consumption of palm oil may be close to about 40,000 tons.
However, consistent real increases in domestic market prices of palm oil in
Ghana (para. 8.08) indicate that demand is much higher than actual consumption
and has been increasing steadily.
8.04     Due to strong domestic demand for palm oil for edible purposes, the
availability of palm oil for industrial purposes has been very limited.
Industrial demand, principally for soap manufacture, has been met through
imports of tallow, a close substitute of palm oil, which again have fluctuated
widely reflecting the foreign exchange problem. Imports of tallow fell from
about 20,000 tons in 1971 to about 5,600 tons in 1974, rose again to about
13,600 tons in 1975, fell to 4,900 tons in 1976 and rose again to 54,400 tons
in 1977. Imports of palm oil, palm kernel oil and tallow accounted for about
70 to 80% of total imports of vegetable and animal oils and fats in Ghana over
1974-77-
Processing and Marketing
8.05     Consumer demand for palm oil is expected to grow at least as fast as
population growth in Ghana (about 3%). Statistical analysis of fats and oils
consumption undertaken in other countries shows that demand increases rapidly
with incomes at low income levels. Given a reasonably high income elasticity
of demand, even a 4% growth rate for palm oil demand in Ghana may,therefore,
be conservative. The FAO demand projections for palm oil in Ghana (for both
human and industrial consumption) have been made on both a low rate of growth
of 2% per annum and a high rate of 4% per annum. Even with conservative
projections of FAO, demand for palm oil is estimated to be about 90,000tons in
1990 and 110,O00tons in 2000. These are considerably in excess of projected



- 33 -
1990 and 110,000tons in 2000. These are considerably in excess of projected
domestic productien (para 8.02). The high FAO projections estimate demand for
palm oil at 104,000tons in 1990 and 133,000tons in 2000. The incremental
production of GOPDC Phase I and II projects would, therefore, be readily
absorbed by the domestic market.
8.06     Industrial demand for palm oil for soap manufacture is strong.  There
are three major soap manufacturers in Ghana; of these, Lever Brothers, which,
at present, mestly uses imported tallow, could alone consume about 25,000t of
palm oil if operating at full soap production capacity which it is prevented
from doing because of inadequate foreign exchange allocations for imports of
materials. The project output of palm oil, therefore, may also be sold with-
out difficulty to industrial users.
8.07     All fruit produced on the Phase I nucleus plantation and purchased
from smallholders/outgrowers would be processed at the GOPDC oil mill con-
structed under Phase I. The 15t/hr capacity of the oil mill would be adequate
tc prccess combined Phase I production of ffb through 1987 by which time the
capacity will be expanded to 25t ffb/hr. Palm oil and palm kernels would be
sold on an ex-millgate basis. Palm oil would be marketed through established
wholesalers and retailers and would be sold in drums or transported to distri-
bution centers in bulk tankers, with apprepriate charges added. GOPDC will
make its own arrangements for palm kernel exports, possibly through an inter-
nationally recognized commodity broker.
Prices
8.08     Given the general scarcity of cils and fats in Ghana and the shortage
of foreign currency for importing substitutes, palm oil fetches high prices on
the local market. In the second half of 1983, GOPDC received a wholesale
price 024,750 (US$825.00)/ton--almost twice the international price. In the
scarcity season, the open market retail prices can reach 0100,000/ton. GOPDC
in the last two months has been receiving a wholesale price of 056,000 or
about 4 times the international price. The current annual average retail
price is about 20% higher in real terms compared tc the 1973 price of about
¢1,200/ton. The consistent real increase in prices reflects a substantial
unsatisfied demand and the premium put on its availability by the domestic
consumer.
8.09     The official ex-mill selling price of 024,750 in December 1983 was
used to calculate the GOPDC revenues from palm oil, on the assumption the
latest high price will not be sustained fcr long. Ex-mill prices for palm
kernels (08,433/ton) were estimated on the basis of the World Bank's forecast
reference price fcr kernels after deductions for freight, insurance, sales
commissions handling and other charges. Price of fresh fruit bunches to
smallholders/outgrowers is taken at 02,200/ton, the price paid up to the end
of 1983, and not the current price cf 07,000 which followed the high price
recently paid for palm cil, on the same assumption that it is unlikely to be
sustained for long. For economic analysis, the mill-gate import parity prices
for palm oil were estimated in constant 1983 terms on the basis of the IBRD
world price forecasts (which for 1983 (actuals) were approximately the same as
the c.i.f. Tema cost of imported Ivory Coast palm oil in late 1983) with



- 34 -
adjustments for port charges, handling costs and transport costs to the mill-
gate. Export parity prices for palm kernels were estimated on the basis of
IBRD forecast reference price for palm kernels in 1983 constant terms. The
economic prices used in calculations are shown at Annex 9 (Tables 4 and 5).
8.10     The Development Credit Agreement for Phase I project included a
covenant to the effect that Government would establish an appropriate Com-
mittee for the purpose of: (a) prescribing the formula for determining the
price to be paid by GOPDC to the outgrowers for palm fruit; (b) reviewing from
time to time the price so paid to outgrowers; and (c) advising GOPDC as to the
proportion to be paid as bonuses to outgrowers when GOPDC profits exceed a
certain level, and that the pricing formula for fresh fruit bunches prescribed
would at all times be acceptable to Government and IDA. The Project Agreement
also stipulated that GOPDC would set the initial millgate price for its palm
oil at a level acceptable to Government and IDA and would thereafter from time
to time consult with !DA on its palm oil pricing policy. The Pricing
Committee was established and guidelines for the pricing formula for ffb and
palm oil were submitted by GOPDC. According to these guidelines, ffb price
will be based on ex-mill palm oil and palm kernel prices taking into account
ffb transport cost, mill processing costs depreciation and financial charges,
overheads and profit margin. However, IDA has emphasized that, in order to
ensure continued maximum returns to outgrowers, mill processing costs and
overheads should not be allowed to exceed a certain percentage of ex-mill
price of oil and kernels with due allowance for low volume of ffb throughput
in early years and age and quality of ffb which affects oil extraction
rates. It was agreed at negotiations that Government pricing policy for palm
oil and GOPDC pricing policy for ffb, palm oil and palm kernels would continue
to be acceptable to IDA. The pricing formula agreed to under Phase I would be
continued, subject to an annual review.
Financial Implications for Farmers
8.11     The average size of farms in the project area is about 4.5 ha with
much of the land being under cocoa, which, however, is heavily infected by
Swollen Shoot Virus disease and the rest under maize, cassava, plantain and
cocoyam. Most of the family income in the project area comes from subsistence
production of food crops mentioned above. Available estimates indicate that
current family income from 4.5 ha plots in the project area, excluding palm
oil, averages 065,000 or about 011,000 (US$360) per capita per year, which is
about the same as national per capita income. The project would increase farm
incomes in addition to saving foreign exchange and increasing Government
revenues. An illustrative cash flow of a 1 ha oil palm holding, in constant
1984 terms, is given at Annex 8.1. Average outgrower planting of oil palm
under Phase II is expected to be about 4 ha (para 6.07). Wnile farm incomes
would drop in the first four years of the project, ffb production would begin
in the fifth year and farm incomes would significantly exceed without project
levels, increasing rapidly thereafter. At full development, during debt
servicing period, the net cash inflow per ha would be about $1,500. After
debt servicing is completed, net cash inflow per ha would be 011,700 from year
14 onwards. The project would thus provide attractive returns to farmers
compared to current average incomes without the project. The substantial
financial incentive and reduction in risks by diversification of production



- 35 -
away from pure cocoa stands into a cash crop that farmers can process and
consume even when farmgate prices fall, is expected to ensure projected
outgrower participation in the project.
Financial Implications for GOPDC and Government
8.12     GOPDC's projected profit and loss statement indicates the operations
would become very profitable from the second year of the project onwards. The
forecast financial statements of GOPDC (income and sources and application of
funds) are shown at Annex 8-2. The financial rate of return to GOPDC of
combined Phases I and II is estimated at 27%. The figure reflects the high
prices in Ghana for edible oils, which in 1983 averaged 80% above comparable
world figures. The projected demand for oils domestically and the lack of
foreign exchange to import substitutes indicate that the domestic prices are
likely to remain somewhat above world prices for some years although the
premium is projected to decrease. Given the cumulative deficit of about 0150
million in 1986, Government cash flow would be negative until 1986 (Annex
5.3). However, from 1987 onwards the cash flow would be positive. Assuming
that GOPDC would pay dividends of 20% of net profits in 1986 and 1987, 50% in
1988 and 75% from 1989 onwards, and taking into account corporate income taxes
to be paid by GOPDC and debt repayment, the cumulative surplus of the Govern-
ment from the project would have reached about 01.8 billion (US$51 million) by
1993.  The project would, therefore, be extremely attractive from the Govern-
ment's point of view.  However discussions will be entered by IDA with the
Government in the early stages of Phase II for consideration of a wider spread
of the project benefits to the smallholders who supply the ffb, the GOPDC
workers, and other private sector interests through the sale of shares and
subsequent award of dividends. Such steps towards privatization and its
implied participation in the policies of GOPDC will strengthen the institution
and ensure a stable future in the longer term.
IX. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
9.01     The project would meet the Government's objective of diversifying the
agricultural structure, expanding local production of a staple item of diet
and thereby saving foreign exchange, and increasing rural employment oppor-
tunities and rural incomes and thereby reducing rural-urban migration. The
principal direct benefit from the project (Phase II) would be the additional
annual production of 3,750t of palm oiI and 750t of palm kernels at full
development. At projected 1990 world market prices in 1983 constant terms,
net foreign exchange savings and earnings from this additional production
would be about US$2.0 million per year after deducting the cost of incremental
imported materials.
9.02     The project (Phase II) would directly benefit 500-620 outgrower
families and about 800 other families deriving incomes from employment on the
Nucleus Estate. With the average of 7 persons per family the benefits will
flow directly to over 9,000 people. Farm incomes would be substantially



- 36 -
increased (para 8.11); consequently better standards of living ald improved
nutrition can be expected. Incremental on-farm employment at full development
would be about 100,000 mandays per year.
9.03     Through technical assistance and training, the project would improve
the capability of Ghanaian nationals to operate and manage an oil palm devel-
opment project. The infcrmation to be collected cn cutgrowers and feasibility
cf small rural cil mills would provide valuable and necessary guidance in
designing suitable producticn/processing systems fcr future cutgrower develop-
ment in Ghana. Assistance to OPRC would increase the local production cf im-
proved planting materials tc oil palm growers in Ghana, thereby saving fcreign
exchange presently spent on imported seeds. Research at OPRC would also lead
to improvement in cil palm cultivation practices and consequent increase in
yields of cil palm plantaticns in the country.
B. Economic Rate of Return
9.04     Ccnsidering that the proposed project is a follow-on to the Phase I
Oil Palm Project, the Economic Rate cf Return (ERR) on Phase I and II combined
captures best the value cf both investments. The ERR in this case amounts to
12.3%. The ERR on Phase I originally estimated at 16.6% was revised downward
to 12% in the recently completed OED review, primarily because of higher than
expected cost increase during the course of the project. The ERR cn Phase II
however is estimated at 17.7%. The substantially higher return to Phase II
results from lower per unit costs cf production by small holders (Phase II)
compared with the Nucleus estate (Phase I). Also, the bulk cf costs cn the
Palm Oil Mill was associated with Phase I. The cost cf the research component
(about US$2.0 million) was excluded from the ERR calculations since the bene-
fits it will generate, although expected tc be widespread, cannct be quanti-
fied for purposes of rate cf return analysis. The Net Present Value cf Phase
I and II, assuming an opportunity cost of capital of 10%, the estimated rate
for Ghana, amounts to 0188.5 million, and for Phase II alone is 0116 millicn.
The assumpticns used in calculating the ERRs, listed in full in Annex 9
included a shadow exchange rate cf 035 tc US$1, and a project life of 35
years. The later period reflects the 10 year planting schedule of Phases I
and 2; however the economic life of individual oil palm plantings does not
exceed 25 years.
C. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
9.05     Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to evaluate the potential impact
of various factors cn the ERR and tc determine which variables would be most
crucial to the success of the project. As a measure, switching values (the
percentage change in a stream cr streams that would render the ERR to its
minimum acceptable value cf 10%) were computed. The numerical results, dis-
cussed below, show that cverall the project is fairly resilient and remains
viable under various adverse situations.



- 37 -
9.06     Costs.  The project is not very sensitive to increases in ccsts.
Overall ccsts would have tc increase by more than 40% before the project
becomes ecenomically unviable. A 10% increase in cverall costs with a 10%
decrease in cverall benefits would result in an ERR cf cver 14%. With a 20%
increase in cverall costs and a 20% decrease in cverall benefits, the ERR
would still be cver 11%.
9.07     Benefits.  The Phase II switching value cf aggregate cutput is about
40% below the appraisal estimate. Assuming that this lcwer than expected
total value cf output would be entirely the result cf lower than projected ffb
yields per ha, the ffb yield would be about 4.5 tons/ha compared to the yield
cf 7.5 tons/ha at appraisal. Since high standards cf maintenance have already
been achieved and girth measurements cf trees have indicated potential yields
of 10 tons/ha for smallholder and cutgrower at full maturity, it is most
unlikely that yields of ffb cver the project life would be below 4.5 tons/ha
sc as tc make the project economically unviable. Since the cil mill would
also be under expatriate management for five years and sufficient training
would have been provided to Ghanaian staff to continue efficient management
afterwards, the probability of significantly lower cil extracticn rates
compared tc those assumed at appraisal is low.
9.08     Development Peried.  Since Phase II would be a continuation of activ-
ities under Phase I, the possibility cf delays in implementation is minimal.
Hcwever, assuming a one year delay in project benefits, the ERR fcr Phase II
would be 15.5%, and with a two year delay 13.7%.
9.09     Risks.  There are no unusual technical project risks.  Project or-
ganizaticn and management is already in place and functicning smcothly. With
mincr mcdificaticns, the organizational structure will remain the same under
Phase II. Experience of input supply, technical supervision and loan
appraisal and administration relating tc outgrowers/smallholders has already
been gained by project staff under Phase I. This is expected to further
improve efficiency cf operaticns under Phase II. The cutgrower program of
2,500 ha cver a five-year period is considered modest in view of the potential
in the project area and existence of good management to cversee operations.
However, the project faces risks related tc (a) the high domestic inflation
rate, which, if it continues cculd lead tc economic distortions, cost overruns
and difficulties cn the part of the Gcvernment in meeting its financial con-
tribution, and (b) the availability of foreign exchange to meet recurrent
costs for imported farm inputs. However, the experience of Government con-
tribution under Phase I has been satisfactory and it is expected that Govern-
ment would continue to provide full financial support under Phase II and
later.



- 38 -
X. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
10.01    During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from
Government:
(a)  Government would cause OPRC to draw Up and to submit to the IDA for
review a five-year training, research and work program for OPRC
(para. 5.14);
(b)  Government would provide or ensure the necessary foreign exchange to
enable GOPDC to import operating materials for the mill and estate
and smallholders' and outgrowers' plantings (para. 5.16);
(c) Any change in the Subsidiary Financing Agreement (para. 10.3) between
COG and GOPDC would be acceptable to IDA (para. 5.17);
(d) To ensure prompt procurement, Government would allow GOPDC to
contract the services of internationally recognized procurement
agents on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 5.19);
(e) Government would (a) release to GOPDC all necessary funds except for
funds covered under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement quarterly in
advance; and (b) allocate the necessary foreign exchange to meet the
requirements among the lines of the approved procurement program
(para. 5.23);
(f) Government would ensure that the proprietary interest of each out-
grower in land planted with the assistance of GOPDC loan would be
defined and recorded with the District Administrative Officer, Kade,
prior to the loan being made (para. 6.06); and
(g) Government pricing policy for palm oil would be acceptable to IDA
(para. 8.10).
10.02    Assurances were obtained from GOPDC that:
(a) Prior to engaging any consultant for the project, the detailed terms
of reference for their employment would be reviewed and agreed with
IDA; consultants would be appointed according to Bank Guidelines
(para. 5.12);
(b) The external auditors would, at the time they submit GOPDC's audited
report to IDA, provide IDA with a copy of their management report on
the status of the accounts and with respect to expenditures claimed
under SOE a statement certifying that IDA funds had been used for
their intended purpose (para. 5.23);
(c) Any change in the appointments of the project's key staff, including
the Managing Director, the Agricultural Manager, the Mill Manager and
the Financial Controller, would be made after consultation with IDA
(para. 6.02);



- 39 -
(d) GOPDC loan to outgrowers would, as a general rule, be limited to a
total of 8 ha per outgrower family unit (para. 6.07);
(e) GOPDC would obtain IDA approval before any changes were made in the
agreed lending terms and arrangements for outgrowers' credit (para.
6.08); and
(f) GOPDC pricing policy for palm fruit, palm oil and palm kernels would
be acceptable to Government and IDA (para. 8.10).
10.03    The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) A Subsidiary Financing Agreement had been executed between Government
and GOPDC (para. 5.17); and
(b) GOPDC had entered into a contract with a firm experienced in oil palm
plantation management and oil mill operations acceptable to IDA on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 6.01);
(c) The Special Account had been established on the basis of terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA (para 5.18).
10.04    It would be a condition of disbursement of part of IDA credit ear-
marked for OPRC (except consultants) that a five-year research and station
work program of OPRC had been drawn up, and such program and proposed methods
of its financing were acceptable to IDA (para. 5.14). Similarly, approval by
IDA of the final design of workers houses will be a condition of disbursements
on building materials.
10.05    On the basis of the above assurances, conditions and recommendations,
the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$25 million.
WAPA B
May 1984



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE _l
susmary of Project Costs (Investment and Recurrent)
(¢ '0003
Foreign Exchange
YY                             ~ Y           Y          TOTAL              S       Amount
Yl            2            3            4            5                                                Costs
Investment Costs
Housing (GOPDC)                                    25,675.0    39,977.0    43,725.0    44,208.0    50,784.0   204,369.0              30.0    61,349.7    143,019.3
Buildings (GOPDC)                                  20,237.0        -            -            -            -         20,237.0         30.0      6,071.1      14,165.9
Laboratory Buildings (OPRC)                         7,539.0        -            -            -            -           7,539.0        30.0      2,261.7       5,277.3
Vehicles (GOPDC)                                   25,455.0      7,785.0      6,075.0      8,670.0    10,260.0    58,245.0           95.0    55,332.7        2,912.3
Vehicles (OPRC)                                     1,860.0        -            -            -            -       _  1,860.0         95.0      1,767.0          93.0
Equipnent and Furniture (GOPDC)                    21,105.9      2,340.0        700.0      3,850.0        300.0    28,295.9          84.6    23,928.1        4,367.8
Equipment (GOPDC Mill)                                -            -         90,900.0        -            -         90,900.0         95.0    86,355.0        4,545.0
Research Equipment (OPRC)                          22,364.0        -            -                         -         22,364.0         95.0    21,245.8        1,118.2
Training and Consultancy (GOPDC)                    2,010.0      5,996.0      4,405.0      5,48V.3      3,314.1    21,141.0         100.0    21,141.0          -
Trainiing and Consultancy (OPRC)                    1,932.7      1,544.4      1,452.5        290.0        -          5,303.5        100.0      5,303.5         -
Farm Inputs and Equipment (GOPDC)                  17,386.7    21,230.9    22,417.5    22,645.0    21,794.2   105,474.2              90.0    94,926.8       10,547.4
Tools and Miscellaneous (GOPDC)                       567.7      2,314.3      2,578.7      2,630.1      2,065.9    10,156.8          90.0      9,141.1       1,015.7
Research Materials (OPRC)                          30,282.0        -            -            -            -         30,282.0         95.0    28,767.9        1,514.1
Operating  Costs 1/
International Staff Salaries (GOPDC)               12,696.0    12,696.0    12,696.0    12,696.0    12,696.0    63,480.0             100.0    63,480.0          -
Local Salaries and Allowances                       7,668.4      8,849.4      8,960.4      7,960.4      5,047.4    38,486.0           -          -          38,486.0
Plantation and Nursery Labor    .                  10,401.1      9,671.6      9,671.6      9,565.3   4 9,312.8    48,622.4            -                     48,622.4
Labor Costs for Phase I Smallholders/
Outgrowers                                         519.3        243.0        -            -            -            762.3          -          -             762.3
Labor Cost Phase II - Outgrowers                      -          1,836.0      2,664.0      3,255.0      1,683.0      9,438.0            -        -           9,438.0
Vehicle 0 & M (GOPDC)                               4,963.0      6,461.9      7,105.9      8,347.3    10,304.7    37,182.8           80.0    29,746.2        7,436.6
Vehicle 0 & M (OPRC)                                  232.4        232.4        232.4        232.4         232.4     1,162.0         80.0        926.6         235.4
Equipment 0 & M (GOPDC)                             5,331.3      7,262.8      9,367.8      9,421.3      9,028.7    40,411.9          80.0    32,329.5        8,082.4
Equipment 0 & M (OPRC)                                200.0        200.0        200.0        200.0        200.0      1,000.0         80.0        800.0         200.0
General Office Costs (GOPDC)                        1,367.2      1,465.3      1,497.3      1,509.3      1,518.3      7,357.4         23.3      1,711.2       5,646.2
Total Baseline Costs                                219,793.6   130,116.4   224,649.2   140,969.4   138,541.5   854,070.2              64.0   546,588.0    307,482.2
Physical Contingencies                             12,098.0      6,839.9    11,719.1       7,585.0      8,029.3    46,271.3          59.7    27,639.5       18,631.8
Price Contingencies                                13,146.5    29,729.7    71,393.4    78,350.5   104.539.8   297.160.0              31.2    92,655.4    204,504.6
PPF Refinancing                                    27,000.0       -            -            -            -          27,000.0        100.0    27,000.0         -
Total Project Cost                                  272,038.1   166,686.0   307,761.7   226,904.9   251,110.6 1,224,501.5                      693,882.9    530,618.6
1/  GOPDC will generate an operating surplus from Yi onwards - See Annex 5.1, Table I.                                                                                            Z 2
2/  Include an estimated C61.3 million (US$2.04 million equivalent) in taxes and duties.                                                                                        m te
January 1984
LCampbell: za



- 41 -                      ANNEX 5.1
Table 2 (Page 1 of 2)
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Project Baseline Cost by Components
(¢ '000)
Local         Foreign           Total
1. Project Headquarters
Housing                         21,365.4        9,156.6         30,522.0
Buildings                       11,122.3        4,766.7         15,889.0
Vehicles                           165.0        3,135.0          3,300.0
Equipment and Furniture             60.0        1,140.0          1,200.0
International Staff Salaries                   22,600.0         22,600.0
Local Salaries and Allowances  3,067.0            -              3,067.0
Vehicles 0 & M                     263.9        1,055.5          1,319.4
General Office Costs               956.7        2,232.3          3,189.0
Sub-Total                     37,000.3       44,086.1         81,086.4
2. Nucleus Plantation
Housing                         95,038.3       40,730.7        135,769.0
Buildings                        3,043.6        1,304.4          4,348.0
Vehicles                         2,190.7       41,624.3         43,815.0
Equipment and Furniture            428.8        8,147.1          8,575.9
Farm Inputs and Equipment        3,147.4       59,800.8         62,948.2
Tools and Miscellaneous            118.7        2,255.0          2,373.7
International Staff Salaries       -           25,900.0         25,900.0
Local Salaries & Allowances   28,822.0            -             28,822.0
Plantation and Nursery Labor  43,761.0            -             43,761.0
Vehicle 0 & M                    6,104.0       24,415.9         30,519.9
Equipment 0 & M                    183.0          732.0            915.0
General Office Costs               410.2          957.2          1,367.4
Sub-Total                   183,247.7      205,867.4        389,115.2
3. Outgrowers/Smallholders Scheme
Housing                         19,983.6        8,564.4         28,548.0
Vehicles                           313.5        5,956.5          6,270.0
Furniture and Equipment            926.0       17,594.0         18,530.0
Farm Inputs and Equipment        2,126.4       40,399.6         42,526.0
Tools and Miscellaneous            389.1        7,393.9          7,783.0
Local Salaries and Allowances  3,306.0            -              3,306.0
Plantation & Nursery Labor       2,382.3          -              2,382.3
Labor Costs for Phase I            762.3          -                762.3
Labor Costs for Phase II         9,438.0          -              9,438.0
Vehicle 0 & M                      717.6        2,870.3          3,587.9
Equipment 0 & M                  1,579.6        6,318.3          7,897.9
General Office Costs                68.7          160.3            229.0
Sub-Total                    41,993.1       89,257.3        131,250.4



ANNEX 5.1
- 42 -                         Table 2 (Page 2 of 2)
Local           Foreign          Total
4. Palm Oil Mill
Housing                            6,671.0         2,259.0         9,530.0
Bu:ildings                         3,629.5         1,555.5         5,185.0
Vehicles                             243.0         4,617.0         4,860.0
Equipment                          4,545.0        86,355.0        90.900.0
International Staff Salaries         -            14,980.0        14,980.0
Local Salaries and Allowances    2,641.0             -             2,641.0
Labor                              2,479.1           -             2,479.1
Vehicles 0 & M                       351.1         1,404.5          1,755.6
Equipment 0 & M                    6,319.8        25,279.2        31,599.0
General Office Costs                 771.6         1,800.4         2,572.0
Sub-Total                      27,651.1       138,850.6       166,501.7
5. Training and Consultancy
GOPDC & OPRC                         -            26,444.5        26,444.5
6. Research
Buildings                          1,647.8           706.2         2,354.0
Vehicles                              93.0         1,767.0          1,860.0
Equipment                          1,118.2        21,245.8        22,364.0
Research Materials                 1,514.1        28,767.9        30,282.0
Local Salaries                       650.0           -                650.0
Vehicles 0 & M                       232.4           929.6          1,162.0
Equipment 0 & M                      200.0           800.0         1,000.0
Sub-Total                       5,455.5        54,216.5        59,672.0
Total Baseline Costs               295,347.7       558,722.4       854,070.2
January 1984
LCampbell:za



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
GOPDC Operating Surplus (Deficit)
(¢'000)
1984             1985              1986             1987              1988
Operating Costs
Local Salaries and Allowances                                 8,819.00        12,655.00         15,027.00         15,352.00         11,194.00
Plantation and Nursery Labor Cost                            11,961.00        13,830.00         16,219.00         18,447.00         20,654.00
Vehicle 0 & M                                                 5,302.00          7,303.00         8,716.00         11,160.00         15,016.00
Equipment 0 & M                                               5,696.00          8,209.00        11,490.00         12,595.00         13,157.00
General Office Costs                                          1,603.00          2,051.00         2,395.00          2,746.00          3,143.00
Recurrent Farm Inputs for Nucleus Plantation                  8,752.00         10,359.00        16,909.00         18,741.00         20,740.00         w
Purchases from Phase I Smallholders/Outgrowers                6,149.00         10,572.00        17,665.00         24,602.00         30,809.00
Total Operating Costs                                     48,282.00        64,979.00         88,421.00        103,643.00       114,713.00
Less:  Revenue from:  Sale of Oil Palm                         76,006.00        120,779.00       192,845.00        269,460.00        342,453.00
Sale of Palm Kernels                    4,289.00          6,8C9.00        11,166.00         15,922.00         20,580.00
Total Revenues:                                           80,295.00       127,588.00        204,011.00        285,382.00       363,033.00
Operating Surplus:                                             32,013.00         62,609.00       115,590.00        181,789.00        248,320.00
AChupak:za
March 1984



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
I/
Proposed Financing Plan-
(1 '000)
2'                  Smallholders/                      Foreign          Local
IDA           GOG-2          GOPDC     Outgrowers          Total         Exchange         Costs
Investment Costs
Housing (GOPDC)                                124,878         39,000         189,147           -           353,025         105,908        247,117
Buildings (GOPDC)                                7,385             -           17,232           -            24,617           7,385         17,232
Buildings (OPRC)                                 4,000             -            5,171           -             9,171           2,751          6,420
Vehicles (GOPDC)                                67,655             -            3,561           -            71,216          67,655          3,561
Vehicles (OPRC)                                   1,900            -              100           -             2,000           1,900             100
Equipment and Furniture (GOPDC)                 27,485             -            5,007           -            32,492          27,488          5,004
Equipment (GOPDC Mill)                         108,222             -            5,696           -           113,918         108,222          5,696
Equipment (OPRC)                                22,847             -            1,202           -            24,049          22,847          1,202
Training and Consultancies                      32,486             -              -             -            32,486          32,486            -
Farm Inputs and Equipment                      124,007             -           13,778           -           137,785         124,007         13,778         X
Tools and Miscellaneous                         12,154             -            1,350           -            13,504          12,154          1,350         1
Materials (OPRC)                                30,935             -            1,628           -            32,563          30,935          1,628
PPF Refinancing                                 27,000             -              -             -            27,000          27,000            -
Operating Costs
International Staff Salaries (GOPDC)            75,199             -              -             -            75,199          75,199            -
Local Staff Salaries (GOPDC)                        -              -           63,046           -            63,046             -           63,046
Nucleus Estate and Nursery Labor                    -              -           81,112           -            81,112             -           81,112
Labor Costs - Smallholders/Outgrowers
- PhaseI                              -               -              -             945             945             -              945
Labor Costs - Outgrowers - Phase II                 -              -              -          17,103          17,103             -           17,103
Vehicles and Equipment 0 & M (GOPDC)            78,914             -           19,729           -            98,643          78,914         19,729
Vehicles and Equipment 0 & M (OPRC)              2,151             -              538           _             2,689           2,151             538
General Office Costs (GOPDC)                     2,782             -            9,156           -            11,938           2,782          9,156
Total                                     750,000         39,000        417,453         18,048       1,224,501        729,784         494,717
1/ Including contingencies.
2/ Government of Ghana
AChupak:mk
March 1984



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Illustrative Government Cash Flow
(c '000)
1984      1985       1986       1987       1988       1989      1990       1991       1992       1993
IDA Credit Phase II                                27,000    51,000   216,000   156,000   123,000    75,000    36,000            -          -          -
Repayments from GOPDC
Phase I  - Principal and Interest                  -          -        19,641    33,361    33,361    33,361    33,361    33,361    33,361    33,361
Phase II - Principal and Interest                  -          -        12,375    34,500    52,125    64,125    71,250    73,500    73,500   142,410
Corporate Tax Paid by GOPDC                          -         7,538    12,924    25,302    26,348    18,477    24,416    29,408    34,408    39,851
Dividend Paid by GOPDC                                -         -         8,077    15,814    65,871   138,578   183,117   220,562   258,064   298,884
Total Inflow                                     27,000    58,538   269,017   264,977   300,705   329,541   348,144   356,831   399,333   514,506
Outflow
Phase II Equity for GOPDC (IDA)                  27,000    51,000    18,000         -          -          -         -          -          -          -
Phase II Equity for GOPDC (Govt. Funds)          39,000       -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -          - 
Long Term Loan for GOPDC (IDA)                     -          -       198,000   156,000   123,000    75,000    36,000          -          -          -
Phase II - OPRC Costs 1/                           -        30,489    25,530       8,823      5,630     6,895      7,585      8,344      9,178    10,096
Phase II - T/A to Ministry of
Agriculture                             -         -          -         6,000       -          -          -          -         -          -
Debt Service
Phase I IDA Credit 2/
- Service Charge                                  2,899      2,899      2,899      2,899     2,867      3,834      2,801      2,780      2,747      2,725
- Principal Payment                                -          -          -         3,859      3,859     3,859      3,859      3,859      3,859      3,859
Phase II IDA Credit 2/ 4/
- Service Charge                                   -           707      1,660      2,660     4,483      5,625      5,625      5,625      5,625      5,625
- Commitment Charge 3/                              336        231       -           139        168       -         -          -          -          -
Total Outflow                                    69,235    85,326   246,089   180,380   140,007    95,213    55,870    20,608    21,409    22,305
Net Surplus (Deficit)                              (42,235)  (26,788)   22,928    84,597   160,698   234,328   292,274   336,223   377,924   492,201
Cumulative Surplus (Deficit) 5/                  (157,755) (184,543) (161,615)  (77,018)   83,680   318,008   610,282   946,505 1,324,429 1,816,630
1/  Post-project OPRC costs inflated by 10% per year starting in 1990 and onward.
2/  3/4 of 1% service charge and principal repayable over 50 years with 10 years' grace period.
The repayment terms are 1% per annum for the first 10 years and 3% per annum for the next 30 years.
3/ 1/2 of 1% on the undisbursed amount of the credit accruing 60 days after credit signing but
collected after credit effectiveness.
4/ Credit assumed to start from 1984.
5/  Includes cumulative deficit of ¢115,52 million up to end of 1983.
March 1984
AChupak:mk



- 46 -                             ANNEX 5.4
Table I
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year                     Cumulative    Cumulative Disbursement   Cumulative
and Quarter      Disbursement   Disbursement       as % of Total Credit   FPAFA Profile 1/
FY85 2nd Quarter       0.9             0.9                   3.6%                 0.5%
3rd Quarter       0.1             1.0                   -                     -
4th Quarter       0.2             1.2                  4.8%                  3.9%
FY86 1st Quarter       0.6             1.8                    -                    -
2nd Quarter       0.8             2.6                 10.4%                 10.4%
3rd Quarter       1.2             3.8                   -                     -
4th Quarter       2.5             6.3                 25.2%                 19.3%
FY87 1st Quarter       2.5             8.8                    -                    -
2nd Quarter       2.0            10.8                 43.2%                 29.9%
3rd Quarter       1.4            12.2                   -                     -
4th Quarter       1.3            13.5                 54.0%                 41.6%
FY88 1st Quarter       1.3            14.8                    -                    -
2nd Quarter       2.2            17.0                 68.0%                 53.9%
3rd Quarter       1.6            18.6                   -                     -
4th Quarter       1.2            19.8                 79.2%                 65.7%
FY89 1st Quarter       0.8            20.6                    -                    -
2nd Quarter       0.7            21.3                 85.2%                 76.3%
3rd Quarter       0.7            22.0                    -                    -
4th Quarter       0.6            22.6                 90.4%                 85.1%
FY90 1st Quarter       0.6            23.2                    -                    -
2nd Quarter       0.6            23.8                 95.2%                 91.9%
3rd Quarter       0.6            24.4                   -                     -
4th Quarter       0.6            25.0                100%                   96.7%
1/ West Africa Regional disbursement profile for area development subsector
generated by the Bank's Financial Analysis Division of the Financial Policy
and Analysis Department (FPAFA).
February 1984
LCampbell:za



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Estimated Disbursement Profile
100  -~~~~~~~~                             7~-  IDA
90j                   °              Ghana Oil PalX          W. Afric.-              IBRD
Phase II  ,-            Agric.,X  .              W. Africa Projects
7 O      <   fPerenial Crops
80~ 
70~~~~~~
70
2 60 -                                                         7
10~~~~~~/ 
0                                                I                                              I I   I I  IT ll
a0s    86    87    88    839    90    91    92    9     94
Ba nk  FY's  a nd  Qualrters.                                           CD|
Based on date provided by PPD dated March 9, 1984.                                                



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Project Implementation Schedule
Project Year (Calendar)                     1984 (PYO)                 1985 (PYl)                1986 (PY2)                 1987 (PY3)                 1988 (PY4)
Quarter                         1     213           4     1      2      3     4      1      2      3     4      1      2      3     4      1      2      3     4
Prenursery and Nursery Development                _        _                                                                                   _
Construction of GOPDC Housing                            _               _                                                               _                          _
Drawing up of OPRC Research
Program
Construction of OPRC Laboratory
Buildings Extensions                                                            _          .
Specifications and Tenders
for Vehicles and Equipment
Procurement of GOPDC Vehicles
and Equipment
Procurement of OPRC Vehicles
and Equipment
Procurement of Farm Inputs,
Equipment & Research Materials                               __
Planting of Oil Palm
Appointment Consultants
(a) Research (OPRC)
(b) Training Consultants
(c) Architectural Services
(d) Outgrower Survey
(e) Phase III Feasibility Study
(f) Studies of Future Agr.
Projects
(g) Phase II Completion Report
Training (GOPDC Staff)                                                                  _           _                             _           _
Training (OPRC Staff)
z:



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Basic Assumptions
Year After Planting                    Y5     Y6      Y7      Y8     Y9   Yl0-17   Y16-17   Y18-19        Y20      Y21   Y22-23   Y23-26
Nucleus Estate
Expected Yields (tffb/ha/yr)          2.2    5.0    6.8    8.4   11.0    11.5         11.0      10.5     10.0    10.0       9.5       9.0
Mandays per tffb (Harvesting)         4.0    2.8    2.4    1.8    1.6        1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5     1.5       1.5
Mandays per ha/year (Harvesting)   8.8   14.0   16.3   15.1   17.6    17.3            16.5      15.7      15.0    15.0    14.3       13.5
Outgrowers
Expected Yields (tffb/ha/year)        2.0    3.9    5.6    6.9    7.5        7.5       7.0       7.0      7.0      6.5      6.5       6.5
Mandays per ton ffb (Harvesting)   4.0    3.5    2.8    2.6    2.4           2.2       2.2       2.2       2.2      2.2     2.2       2.2
Mandays per ha/year (Harvesting)   8.0   13.7   15.7   17.9   18.0    16.5            15.4      15.4      15.4    15.4    14.3       14.3
Extraction Rates
Palm Oil       (%)                   19.0   19.5   20.0   20.0   20.0    20.0         20.0      20.0      20.0    20.0    20.0       20.0
Palm Kernels  (%)                     3.1    3.1    3.5    4.0    4.0        4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0      4.0     4.0       4.0
March 23, 1984
AChupak:za



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Input Requirements per hectare of Outgrower Oil Palm Planting
UNIT         ITEMS                    Y1            Y2            Y3            Y4            Y5            Y6-30
(No.)      Seedlings                 143             7
m        Wirenetting               143             -
kg        Cover Crop Seeds           10             -
kg        Ammonium Sulphate         42.9          100            71.5         143           143             143
kg        Superphosphate            17.9          35.8           35.8         71.5            -              -
kg        Muriate of Potash         35.8          71.5          107.3         143           214.5           214.5
¢        Tools and Miscellaneous 150             150           150           150           150             150
kg        Chemicals                  0.5           1.0            1.0          1.0            1.0             1.0
Machinery & Equipment
hrs       Tractor and Trailer         4             2             2             3             3               4         o
hrs       Chainsaw                   10             -             -             -             -               -
m X4
January 1984
LCampbell:za



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Manday Requirements for Field Operations and Harvesting on 1 ha of Outgrower Planting
Y 1     Y2       y 3      y4       Y5       Y6      y 7      Y8       y 9      Y10      y11-22   Y 23     y24_30
Land Preparation
Underbrushing                             20
Felling Large Trees                       18
Burning                                    5
Pegging Lines and Holes                    2
Levelling/Slashing                         3
Cover Crop Planting                        3
Sub-Total                     51
Planting
Planting                                   5
Holing                                     3
Transporting Seedlings from Road          3.5
Planting Palm and Wire Netting            3.5
Final. Check and Levelling                 2
Drains                                     3
Sub-Total                     20
TOTAL:                        81
Maintenance During Development
Selective Weeding                         10        6        6         6       6       5         5        5        5       4          4        4        4
Ring Weeding                               9       12       12        10       8       6         6        6        6        5          4       4        4
Maintenance - Paths                        1        1        1         1        1      1         1        1        1        1          1        1       1
Drains                      2        2       2         2        2       2         2       2        2        2          2        2        2
Eupatorium                  2        2       2         2        2       2         2        1       1        1          -        -        -
Boundaries                  2        2       2         2        2       2         2       2        2        2          2        2        2
Census Replacement of Dead or
Missing Palms                             3        2        1        -        -       -         -        -        -       -           -       -        -
Fertilizer Application                     1        1        1        1.5     1.5    1.5        1.5      1.5      1.5     1.5         1.5     1.5      1.5
Phytosanitary Control                      I        1        1         1       1       1         1        1        1        1          1        1       1
Sub-Total                     31       29       28       26       24      21        21       20      20       18         16       16       16
l1arvesting                                -        -        -         -      10      14        18       22       22      22          22      22       18
TOTAL                        102       29       28       26       34      35        39       42      42       40         38       38       34
January 1984                                                                                                                                                         |
LCampbell:za                                                                                                                                                        x



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Cot of Input   Services and Labor to Outgrowers (per ha)
(¢)
Year of Establishment/Maintenance                 1           2           3            4           5           6            7           8            9           10           11-23       24-30
Labor
Labor for Establishment 1/                     3,240.0        -           -            -           -           -            -           -            -           -              -           -
Labor for Maintenance 1/                       1,240.0    1,160.0    1,120.0    1,040.0           960.0        840.0       840.0       760.0        720.0       720.0          680.0       680.0
Labor for Harvesting 1/                           -           -           -            -          400.0       560.0        720.0       920.0        960.0       880.0          880.0       720.0
Total Labor 1/          4,480.0    1,160.0    1,120.0    1,040.0          1,360.0     1,400.0    1,560.0       1,680.0    1,680.0       1,600.0       1,560.0      1,400.0
Inputs
Seedlings 2/                                   1,430.0        70.0        -            -           _           _            _           _                        -
Wirenetting 3/                                 3,146.0        -           _            _           _            _           _           _
Cover Crop Seeds 4/                            2,400.0        -           -            -           -           -            -           -            -           -              -
Ammonium Sulphate 5/                             257.4       600.0       429.0        858.0       858.0        858.0       858.0       858.0        858.0       858.0          858.5       858.5
Superphosphate 6/                                131.3       268.5       268.5        536.3        -           -            -           -            -           -              -           -
Muriate of Potash 7/                             295.4       589.9        885.2    1,179.8      1,769.6     1,769.6      1,769.6     1,769.6      1,769.6     1,769.6        1,769.6     1,?69.6
Chemicals 8/                                      50.0       100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0          100.0       100.0
Tools and Miscellaneous 9/                       150.0       150.0       150.0        150.0       150.0        150.0       150.0       150.0        150.0       150.0          150.0       150.0
Total Inputs            7,860.1      1.778,8    1,782.7    2,824.1        2,877.6     2,877.6     2,877.6      2,877.6     2,877.6      2,877.6       2,877.6      2,877.6
Services
Tractor/Trailer for Transport
of Inputs 10/                                 600.0        300.0       300.0        450.0       450.0       450.0        450.0       450.0       450.0        450.0          450.0       450.0
Chainsaw for Felling Trees 11/                   300.0        -           -            -           -           -            -           -            -           -              -           -
Total Services            900.0        300.0       300.0        450.0       450.0       450.0        450.0       450.0       450.0        450.0         450.0        450.0
Total Costs                             13,240.1   3,238.8    3,202.7    4,314.1    4,687.6    4,727.6    4,887.6             5,007.6    5,007.6    4,927.6           4,887.6     4,727.6
1/  At ¢ 40 per manday.          5/  At ¢ 6.0 per kg.          9/ At C 150 per ha.
2/  At ¢ 10 per seedling.        6/  At ¢ 7.5                 10/ At C 150 per hour.
3/  At ¢ 22 per meter.           7/  At ¢ 8.25 "              11/ At ¢  30 per hour.
4/  At ¢ 240 per kg.             8/  At ¢ 100  "  "
January 1984
LCampbell: za
m _4



- 53 -
ANNEX 7.3
Page 1 of 2
Design and Standards for Feeder Roads
Item                               Recommended Standard and Remarks
Bush Clearing                         Vegetation should be cleared sufficient
distance (9-lOm) to allow sunlight to
penetrate to the road surface, and allow
reasonable sight distances on bends. Needs
regular attention.
Carriageway Width                     5 meters.
Gradient                              12% preferred maximum.
Cross-fall (Camber)                   4-5%.  Very important--must be maintained
at all times.
Drainage Ditches                      Side ditches--minimum 2.0 m wide on sections
in well drained areas and up to 5 m in poorly
drained areas. Longitudinal Ditch grade
never less than 1%. Frequent large turnouts.
Must be regularly maintained.
Fill Slopes                           Max 1:1.5.
Cut Slopes                            Preferred max. 1.0 vert: 0.5 horizontal.
Laterite Surfacing                    Compacted to about 100 mm.
Design Speed                          Not relevant to this type of road.
Minimum Horizontal Radius             Not relevant, but sharp bends should be
avoided.
Superelevation                        Not normally required in well drained areas.
0.5 m mm in wet areas.
Culverts                              c.m.p. or concrete culverts.  Must be correctly
backfilled. Inlet and outlet channels provided
as required. Must be regularly cleaned.
Bridges                               Palm log or steel beams with timber decks.
Abutments stone-filled gabions or concrete.
Grassing                              Grass can be planted on embankment slopes and
in drainage ditches. Ditches must be
regularly trimmed.



- 54 -                                  ANNEX 7.3
Page 2 of 2
Design Standards for Fruit Collection
Item                             Recommended Standard and Remarks
Bush Clearing                         Vegetation between palm trees must always be
kept low and on either side of road it must
be kept sufficiently low to allow sunlight to
penetrate the road surface, and allow reason-
able sight distances on bends. Needs regular
attention.
Carriageway Width                     3.0 meters.
Gradient                              12% preferred maximum.
Cross-fall (Camber)                   4-5%.  Very important--must be maintained
at all times.
Drainage Ditches                      Side ditches--minimum 1.5m wide on all
sections. Longitudinal Ditch grade never
less than 1%. Frequent large turnouts.
Must be regularly maintained.
Fill Slopes                           Max 1:1.5.
Cut Slopes                            Preferred mcax. 1.0 vert: 0.5 horizontal.
Laterite Surfacing                    75-100 mm.  Only where existing soils are
clayey or on. steep grades.
Design Speed                          Not relevant to this type of road.
Minimum horizontal radius             Not relevant, but sharp bends should be
avoided.
Superelevation                        Not normally required.
Culverts                              c.m.p. or concrete culverts.  Must be correctly
backfilled. Inlet and outlet channels provided
as required. Must be regularly cleaned.
Bridges                               Palm1log or steel beams with timber decks.
Abutments stone-filled gabions or concrete.
Grassing                              Grass can be planted on embankment slopes and
in drainage ditches. Ditches must be regu-
larly trimmed.



GHlANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PhASE II
Illustrative Cash Flow for 1 ha Outgrower Planting
Year of Establishment/Operation                1            2           3           4           5           6           7            8           9          10          il          12-13        14          15        16
Production (tons ffb)                          -           -            -           -          2.0         3.9         5.6         6.9          7.5         7.5         7.5          7.5         7.5         7.5       7.0
Cash Inflow
Sale of ffb at c2,200/t             (¢)      -           -           -            -        4,400.0    8,580.0   12,320.0   15,180.0   16,500.0   16,500.0   16,500.0   16,500.0   16,500.0   16,500.0 15,400.0
Credit for Farm Inputs
and Services I/                   (¢)   8,760.1    2,078.8    2,082.7    3,274,1            -           -           -           -           -            -           -                 -            -
Cash Credit 2/                      (¢)   3,584.0        928.0       896.0        832.0       -
Farmers' Labor Contribution 3/   (¢)         896.0       232.0       224.0        208.0                  -           --                       -           - _  _     _             _           _
Total Inflow                      (¢)  13,240.1    3,238.8    3,202.7    4,314.1    4,400.0    8,580.0   15,180.0   16,500.0                                       16,500.     0 6,500.0   16.500.0   16,500.0  15,400.0
Cash Outflow
Labor Costs 4/                      (¢)   4,480.0    1,160.0    1,120.0    1,040.0    1,360.0    1,400.0    1,560.0    1,680.0    1,680.0    1,600.0    9,363.6    9,363.6                    1,400.0    1,400.0  1,400.0
Farm Inputs and Services 5/         (¢)   8,760.1    2,078.8    2,082,7    3,274.1    3,327.6    3,327.6    3,327.6    3,327.6    3,327.6    3,327.6                 3,327.6    3,327.6    3,327.6        3,327.6  3,327.6
Total Outflow                     (0)  13,240.1    3,238.8    3,202.7    4,314.1    4,687.6    4,727.6    4,887.6    5,007.6              5,007.6    4,927.6    4,887.6    4,727.6    4,727.6    4,727.6  4,727.6
Net Inflow Before Debt Service         (c)     -           -           -            -          (287.6)   3,852.4    7,432.4   10,172.4   11,492.4   11,572.4   11,612.4   11,772.4   11,772.4   11,772.2 10,672.4
Cumulative Inflow Before Debt
Service                             (¢)      -           -           -           -           (287.6)   3,564.8   10,997.2   21,169.6   32,662.0   44,234.4   55,846.8   67,619.2   79,391.6   91,164.0 101,836.4
Debt Service 6/ (1)                            -           -            -           -           -           -         4,562.3    4,562.3   10,250.8   10,250.8   10,250.8   10,250.8              -           -         -
Net Inflow After Debt Service          (¢)     -           -            -           _          (287.6)   3,852.4    2,870.1    5,610.1    1,241.6    1,321.6    1,361.6    1,521.6   11,772.4   11,772.4 10,672.4
Cumulative Net Iaflow After
Debt Service                        (¢)      -           -           -            _          (287.6)   3,564.8    6,434.9   12,045.0   13,286.6   14,608.2   15,969.8   17,491.4   30,785.4   42,557.8 53,230.2
Net Return Per Ha Before Debt
Service  7/                         (¢)      -           -           -           -          1,072.4    5,252.4    8,992.4   11,852.4   13,172.4   13,172.4   13,172.4   13,172.4   13,172.4   13,172.4 12,072.4
Total On-Farm Manday                  (¢)      102           29          28          27          34          35          39           42          42          42          42          42           42          42        40
Net Return Per Manday Before
Debt Service                        (¢)      -           -           -           -             31.5       150.1       230.6       282.2        313.6       313.6       313.6        313.6       313.6       313.6  301.81
Net Return Per Ha After Debt
Service                             (¢)      -           -           -           -          1,072.4    5,252.4    4,430.1    7,290.1    2,921.6    2,921.6           2,921.6    2,921.6   13,172.4   13,172.4 12,072.4
Net Return Per Manday After
Debt Service                        (¢)      -           -           -           _             31.5       150.1       113.6        173.6        69.6        69.6        69.6         69.6       313.6       313.6    301.8
1/  100% of farm inputs and services supplied              6/ Debt carries an annual compound interest rate of 12.5% capitilised for the first
by 60PDC through 4th year of planting.                     6 years.  Interest only is paid in years 7 and 8 and in the neat 5 years interest
2/  80% of labor costs.                                        and capital is paid in 5 equal annual installments.
3/ Contribution in kind.
4/  From Annex 7.2, Table 3.                                                               Year              1          2          3          4           5          6
5/  From Annex 7.2, Table 3.                                                                _
Credit Receipt                           12,344.1   3,006.8   2,978.7   4,106.1
Cumulative Total at 12.5% Interest   12,344.1  16,893.9  21,984.4  28,838.5  32,443.3  36,498.7
7/  Value of ffb sold minus cost of farm inputs and services.
AChupak: za
March 1984



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE 11
Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation
Profit and Loss Statement
(e 'Coo)
1983          1984           1985          1986           1987          1988           1989           1990          1991           1992           1993
Sales - Palm Oil 1/                                       76,006.0    120,779.0    192,845.0    269,460.0    342,453.0    421,419.0    507,946.0    583,067.0    660,731.0                  /34,045.0
- Kernels 1/                                        4,289.0        6,809.0      11,166.0       15,922.0      20,580.0       25,313.0       29,882.0      33,866.0       38,194.0       42,451.0
Total Sales:                                            80,295.0    127,588.0    204,011.0    285,382.0    363,033.0    446,732.0    537,828.0    616,933.0    698,925.0                  776,496.0
Debt Payment - OG/Si - Phase I                              -              -             -             1,037.0         982.0          923.0          859.0         790.0          716.0          636.0
- Phase II 2/                                      -              -                            -             -              -             2,737.0       5,931.0       12,538.0
Total Revenue:                                          80,295.0    127,588.0    204,011.0    286,419.0    364,015.0    447,655.0    538,687.0    620,460.0    705,572.0    789,670.0
Cost of Sales - FFB Purchases
Phase I - OCSH 3/                                       6,149.0      10,572.0       17,665.0       24,602.0      30,809.0       36,099.0      40,513.0       42,947.0      45,523.0       48,032.0
Phase II                                                  -             -              -              -             -             4,349.0      14,941.0       31,720.0      52,925.0       72,322.0
Total Cost of Sales:                                     6,149.0      10,572.0       17,665.0      24,602.0       30,809.0      40,448.0       55,454.0       74,667.0      98,448.0    120,354.0
Gross Profit                                            74,146.0    117,016.0    186,346.0    261,817.0    333,206.0    407,207.0    483,233.0    545,793.0    607,124.0    669,316.0
Operating Expenses
International Staff Salaries 4/                           12,918.0      13,666.0       14,830.0       16,165.0      17,620.0       18,942.0 /   20,078.0        21,28530       22,560.0      23,913.0
Local Salaries, Wages & Allowances                        21,377.0      29,458.0       35,713.0       40,076.0      35,582.0       39,140.0      43,054.0       47,360.0       52,096.0      57,305.0         1
Vehicles & Equipment 0 & N                                10,998.0      15,512.0       20,205.0       23,755.0      28,173,0       30,990.0      34,089.0       37,498.0       41,248.0      45,373.0
General Office Costs                                       1,603.0       2,051.0        2,395.0        2,746.0       3,143.0        3,457.0       3,803.0        4,183.0        4,602.0       5,062.0        0,
Recurrent Farm Inputs for Nucleus
Estate 6/                                                8,752.0      10,359.0       16,909.0       18,741.0      20,740,0       22,814.0      25,095.0       27,605.0      30,365.0       33,402.0
Total Operating Expenses:                               55,648.0      71,046.0       90,052.0    101,483.0    105,258.0         115.343.0     126,119.0    137,929.0    150,871.0         165,055.0
Operating Profit (Loss)                                   18,498.0      45,970.0       96,294.0    160,334.0    227,948.0    291,864.0    357,114.0    407,864.0    456,253.0    504,261.0
Depreciation 7]                                           16,808.0      17,914.0       19,080.0       19,385.0      19,385.0       19,385.0      19,385.0       19,385.0       19,385.0      19,385.0
Profit (Loss) Before Interest                              1,690.0      28,056.0       77,214.0    140,949.0    208,563.0    272,479.0    337.729,0    388,479.0    436,868.0    484,876.0
Interest Payments:
- Phase I Loans                                           -             -            16,053.0      25,680.0       24,696.0      23,583.0       22,323.0       20,896.0      19,283.0       17,454.0
- Phase 11 Loans 8/                                        3,350.0    7,550.0        20,775.0      36,200.0       52,125.0      64,125.0       71,250.0       73,500.0      73,500.0       68,910.0
Total Interest Payment:                                  3,350.0       7,550.0       36,828.0      61,880.0       76,821.0      87,708.0       93,573.0       94,396.0      92,783.0       86,364.0
Profit (Loss)                                             (1,660.0)    20,506.0        40,386.0       79,069.0     131,742.0    184,771.0    244,156.0    294,083.0    344,085.0    398,512.0
Dividends 9/                                                              -             8,077.0       15,814.1      65,871.0    138,578.0    183,117.0    220,562.0    258,064.0    298,884.0
Net Profit Before Taxes                                   (1,660.0)    20,506.0        32,309.0       63,255.C      65,871.0       46,193.0      61,039.0       73,521.0       86,021.0      99,628.0
Taxes 10/                                                   -            7,538.0       12,924.0       25,302.0      26,348.0       18,477.0      24,416.0       29,408.0       34,408.0      39,851.0
Net Profit (Loss) After Tax                               (1,660.0)    12,968.0        19,385.0       37,95.0       39,523.0       27,716.0      36,623.0       44,113.0       51,613.0      59,777.0
1/  Since domestic palm oil prices are at present extremely high and appear to be linked to the unofficial rate of exchange, the 1983 prices were inflated on the hasis of World Bank
projections for palm oil prices in current terms rather than on the basis of expected domestic inflation rates.  The rates used are:
2/  S/H stands for smallbolders, and O/G for outgrowers.                                                                                          Palm Oil - 1984 - 16.5%           Kernel - 1984 - 13.25%
3/ Price of ffb inflated at the same rates as those for price of palm oil.                                                                                       85 - (4.3%)                    85 - (8.5%)   V
4/  Includes management fees.                                                                                                                                 86-90 - 10.251                 86-90 - 8.9%         mm 
5/  1989 cost inflated at 7.5%; 1990 onward at 6.0% compounded annually.                                                                                     91-94 - 6.0%                    91-94 - 5.4%          oo
6/  Includes farm inputs for Phase I nucleus estate after fourth year of planting.                                                                           Compounded                      Compounded
7/  Includes depreciation of Phase I assets and write off of deferred operatinR expenditures under Phase I.                                                  Annually                        Annually
8/ For farm inputs and equipment at 20% interest rate for 15 years with a 7 years' grace period for principal repayment.
9/ 20% of net profit before taxes in 1986 and 1987; 50% in 1988; and 75% in 1989 onward.
10/ At 40%.
AChupak: za
March 1984



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
GOPDC - Projected Sources and Application of Funds
(e '000)
1984       1985      1986       1987       1988        1989       1990       1991       1992       1993
Sources
Total Revenue from Sales                          80,295   127,588   204,011   285,382   363,033   446,732   537,828   616,933   698,925   776,496
Debt Repayment by S/H and O/C-                      -          -          -         1,720      1,720      1,720       1,720     4,457       7,651    14,258
Equity - Govt. IDA Funds                          27,000    51,000    18,000         -          -          -          -           -          -          -
- Govt. Own Funds                         39,000       -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -
Loans  - IDA Funds          2/                      -          -       198,000   156,000   123,000    75,000    36,000            -          -
Commercial Bank Loan (20%)-                       33,500      8,500       -          -          -          -          -          _           _
Total Sources                                    179,795   187,088   420,011   443,102   487,753   523,452   575,548   621,390   706,574   790,754
Applications
Civil Works                                       54,842    56,401    74,501    83,460   108,438           -   32-4 /             -          -          - 
Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture                 49,411    10,790       8,491    19,168    15,848    20,742-   22,816-/  25,098    27,607    30,368
Oil Mill                                            -          -       113,918       -          -          -          -           -          -          -
Development Farm Inputs for
Nucleus Estate 5/                                5,201      6,711       -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -
Training and Consultancies                         4,212      8,534      7,184      7,727      4,829       -           -          -          -          -
Operating Expenditures 6/                         55,648    71,046    90,052   101,483   105,258   115,343   126,119   137,929   150,871   165,055
Loans to S/H and O/G, Phase 1 7/                     446        240       -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -
Loans to Outgrowers, Phase 11 7/                    -         7,406    10,445    12,533    12,827         6,463      4,364       2,053       -          -
FFB Purchased From S/H and O/C                     6,149    10,572    17,665    24,602    30,809    40,448    55,454    74,667    98,448   120,354
Interest and Debt Repayment
to Government                                     -          -        32,016    67,861    85,486    97,486   104,611   106,861   106,861   175,771
to Commercial Bank                               3,350      7,550    41,900    10,200         -          -          -          -          -           -
Dividend Payment to Govt. 8/                        -          -         8,077    15,814    65,871   138,578   183,117   220,562   258,064   298,884
Tax Payment to Govt.                                -         7,538    12,924    25,302    26,348    18,477    24,416    29,408    34,408    39,851
Total Applications                               179,239   186,788   417,173   368,150   455,714   437,537   520,897   596,578   676,259   830,283
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital               536        300      2,838    74,952    32,039    85,915    54,651    24,812    30,317   (39,529)
Cumulative Increase in Working Capital              -           836      3,674    78,626   110,665   196,580   251,231   276,043   306,360   266,831
1/ Includes debt under Phase I.
2/ Commercial bank loans to be paid at the end of 1986 and 1987.
3/ Average of preceding five years.
4/  1989 cost inflated at 10% compounded for all later years.
5/  Through fourth year of planting.                                                                                                                             m
6/  Includes recurrent farm inputs for nucleus estate.                                                                                                           > 
7/  100% of farm inputs and services and 80% of labor cost through fourth year of planting.                                                                   TZ X
March 1984
AChupak:mk



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
GOPDC - Projected Balance Sheet
¢ '000
1983 1/    1984         1985        1986        1987       1988        1989         1990         1991        1992         1993
Assets
Current Assets                    10,469      21,634      22,275      42,306    106,241       169,774    248,571    305,533    336,008    377,228    433.483
Fixed Assets
Phase II Civil Work                 -         54,842    111,243    185,744    269,204    377,642    377,642    377,642    377,642    377,642    377,642
"1 " Vehicles, equip.
and fturniture                    -         49,411      60,201    182,610    201,778    217,626    217,626    217,,626   217,626    217,626    217,626
Phase 1I Nucleus Estate
Development                       -          5,201      11,912      17,113      17,113       17,113      17,113      17,113      17,113       17,113      17,113
Phase I Assets                   152,698    152,698    152,698    152,698    152,698    152,698    152,698    152,698    152,698    152,698    152,698
Total Fixed Assets               152,698    283,786    336,054    538,165    640,793    765,069    765,069    765,069    765,069    765,069    765,069
Less Depreciation 2/              14,715      29,868      41,197      68,763      87,894    107,279    107,279    107,279    107,279           107,279    107,279
Net Fixed Assets                 137,983    253,918    294,857    469,402    552,899    657,800    657,800    657,800    657,800    657,800    657,800
Loans to SH/OG 3/                  6,310       9,313      18,908      31,745      46,616       63,648      76,447      88,746      97,535    102,177    104,204
Less Repayment of Principle         -           -           -           -             683         738         797         861          930       1,004       6,497
Net Loan to SH/OG                  6,310       9,313      18,908      31,745      45,933       62,910      75,650      87,885       96,605    101,173       97,707
Total Assets                   154,762      263,231   336,040    543,453    705,073    890,484    982,021  1,051,218  1,090,413  1,136,201  1,188,990
Liabilities
Creditors                          4,030      14,659      15,000      28,605      24,174       30,852      28,338      34,690      40,810       47.450      54,5C0
Long Term Loans Principle
Repayment 4/                      -           -           -          3,588      7,681         8,665       9,778      11,038      12,465       14,078      89,407
Total Current Liabilities          4,030      14,659      15,000      32,193       31,855      39,517      38,116      45,728       53,275      61,528    143,947
Long-Term Loan 5/                101,112    134,612    143,112    304,024    443,843    558,178    623,400    648,362    635,897    621,819    532,412
Equity                            39,774 6/ 105,774    156,774    174,774    174,774    174,774    174,774            174,774    174,774       174,774    174,774
Retain Earning (Loss) 7/           9,846       8,186      21,154      40,539       78,492     118,015    145,731      182,354    226,467    278,080    337,857
Total Liabilities              153,710    263,231    336,040    543,453    705,073    890,484    982,021  1,051,218  1,090,413  1,136.201  1,188,990
1/  Unaudited balance sheet prepared by GOPDC.
2/  Agregate depreciation based on 5% for building and housing and 20% for the rest.
3/ Includes capitalized loans from Phase I.
4/ Includes repayment from Phase I loans.
5/ Includes Phase I outstanding loans.
6/ Phase I equity.
7/ Agregate earnings after taxes and dividends to GOG.
AChupak:za
March 1984



- 59 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Assumptions Underlying Economic Rate of Return Calculations
1.       The following assumptions were used for ERR calculations for Phase I
and II combined (Table 5):
(a)  Project Life:  Assumed to be 35 years from 1977 onwards (i.e., 1977
to 2011) to take into account the long period of planting from
1977 to 1988.
(b)  Project Costs:
(i)  The economic cost for Phase I were taken from the Project
Performance Audit Report of December 30, 1983. For Phase II,
the costs of all components were included except research
since the research component for OPRC is not expected to
benefit the project directly, but to benefit the entire oil
palm subsector in Ghana. The benefits of research, which
should be substantial, cannot be quantified at this stage;
(ii) all costs are net of identifiable taxes, duties and sub-
sidies;
(iii) physical contingencies of 10% of base costs for civil works
and 5% for all other items, except salaries and wages, were
included;
(iv) for plantation and farm labor the shadow wage rate was
conservatively taken to be equal to the prevailing
market wage rate of 040 per manday for rural unskilled
labor;
(v)  all foreign exchange costs from 1983 onwards were adjusted
by the estimated shadow exchange rate of 035 = US$1;
(vi) replacement costs for vehicles and equipment have been
included for all years;
(vii) costs of required expansion in milling capacity in 1987 and
increasing number of harvesting trucks have been included;
(viii) post-project vehicle and equipment operating costs have
been increased to reflect the increasing number of harvesting
trucks needed and expansion of milling capacity;
(ix) costs incurred prior to 1983 were converted into 1983 terms
by using the implicit GDP deflator for local costs and
international inflation index for foreign costs;



- 60 -                          ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
(x)  different shadow exchange rates were used for different
years prior to 1983 based on available estimates for each
year;
(xi) net value of production foregone was included; and
(xii)  the opportunity cost of capital is 10%.
(c) Project Benefits:
(i)  Benefits were assumed to accrue exclusively from increased
palm oil and palm kernel production;
(ii) Production (Tables 1 and 2) was valued at economic mill-gate
prices (Tables 3 and 4) based on IBRD price forecasts in 1983
terms and using a shadow exchange rate of ¢35=US$l; and
(iii)  No residual value was added at the end of the project economic
life.
2.         The following assumptions were used for ERR calculation for Phase II
only (Table 6):
(a)  Project Life: Assumed to be 28 years, i.e., from 1984 to 2011.
(b)  Project Costs: Most project costs were included in proportion
to the outgrowers' production (i.e., on 1/3 of the area covered
by the project). Costs of the housing program and international
salaries were not included as these components mainly effect the
operations of GOPDC and the nucleus plantations.
(c) Remaining assumptions are the same as for Phase I and II
combined.



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE I - SMALLHOLDERS
Production of FFB, Palm Oil and Palm Kernels (tons)
1982       1983         1984        1985       1986         1987        1988        1989        1990        1991        1992        1993        1994
Smallholders (Phase I)
1978 Planting (91 ha)
FFB                          182.0       355.0       510.0       628.0       683.0       683.0       683.0       683.0       683.0       683.0       683.0        637.0       637.0
Palm Oil                      34.6        69.2       102.0       125.6       136.6       136.6       136.6       136.6       136.6        136.6       136.6       127.4       127.4
Palm Kernels                   5.6        11.0        17.9        25.1        27.3        27.3        27.3        27.3        27.3         27.3        27.3        25.5        25.5
1979 Planting (330 ha)
FFB                           -           660.0   1,287.0    1,848.0    2,277 ..0   2,475.0    2,475.0    2,475.0    2,475.0    2,475.0    2,475.0    2,475.0    2,310.0
Palm Oil                      -           125.4      251.0       369.6       455.4       495.0       495.0       495.0       495.0       495.0       495.0        495.0       462,0
Palm Kernels                  -            20.5       39.9        64.7        91.1        99.0        99.0        99.0        99.0         99.0        99.0        99.0       92.4
1980 Planting (301 ha)
FFB                           -           -          602.0    1,174.0    1,686.0    2,077.0    2,258.0    2,258.0    2,258.0    2,258.0    2,258.0    2,258.0    2,258.0
Palm Oil                      -           -          114.4       228.9       337.2       415.4       451.6       451.6       451.6       451.6       451.6        451.6       451.6        1
Palm Kernels                  -           -           18.7        36.4        59.0        83.1        90.3        90.3        90.3         90.3        90.3        90.3        90.3
1981 Planting (330 ha)
FFB                           -           -           -          660.0    1,287.0    1,848.0    2,277.0    2,475.0    2,475.0    2,475.0    2,475.0    2,475.0    2.475.0
Palm Oil                      -           -           .          125.4       251.0       369.6       455.4       495.0       495.0       495.0       495.0        495.0       495.0
Palm Kernels                  -           -           -           20.5        39.9        64.7        91.1        99.0        99.0         99.0        99.0        99.0        99.0
1982 Planting (300 ha)
FFB                           -           -           -           -          600.0    1,170.0    1,680.0    2,070.0    2,250.0    2,250.0    2,250.0    2,250.0    2,250.0
Palm Oil                      -           -           -           -          114.0       228.2       336.0       414.0       450.0       450.0        450.0       450.0       450.0
Palm Kernels                  -           -           -           -           18.6        36.3        58.8        82.8        90.0         90.0        90.0        90.0        90.0
Totals
Total FFB                        182.0    1,015.0    2,399.0    4,310.0    6,533.0    8,253.0    9,373.0    9,961.0   10,141.0   10,141.0   10,141.0   10,095.0    9,930.0
Total Palm Oil                    34.6       194.6      467.4       849.5    1,294.2    1,644.8    1,874.6    1,992.2    2,028.2    2,028.2    2,028.2    2,019.0    1,986.0                   a 2
Total Palm Kernels                 5.6        31.5        76.5       146.7      235.9        310.4       366.5       398.4       405.6       405.6       405.6       403.8       397.2
AChupak:za
March 1984



GHANA
OIL PALM_DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE I - SMALLHOLDERS
Production of FFB, Palm Oil and Palm Kernels (tons)
1995        1996         1997         1998         1999         2000         2001         2002         2003        2004         2005         2006          2007
Smallholders (Phase I)
1978 Planting (91 ha)
FFB                            637.0        637.0        637.0        592.0        592.0        592.0       592.0        592.0        592.0
Palm Oil                       127.4        127.4        127.4        118.4        118.4        118.4        118.4       118.4        118.4
Palm Kernels                     25.5        25.5         25.5         23.7         23.7         23.7         23.7         23.7         23,7
1979 Planting (330 ha)
FFB                          2,310.0      2,310.0      2,310.0      2,310.0     2,145.0      2,145.0      2,145.0      2,145.0      2,145.0      2,145.0
Palm Oil                       462.0        462.0        462.0        462.0        429.0        429.0        429.0        429.0       429.0        429.0
Palm Kernels                    92.4         92.4         92.4         92.4         85.8         85.8         85.8         85.8        85.8         85.8
1980 Planting (301 ha)
FFB                          2,107.0      2,107.0      2,307.0      2,107.0     2,107.0      1,957.0      1,957.0      1,957.0      1,957.0      1,957.0      1,957.0
Palm Oil                       421.4        421.4        421.4        421.4        421.4        391.4       391.4        391.4        391.4        391.4        391.4
Palm Kernels                    84.3         84.3         84.3         84.3         84.3         78.3         78.3         78.3         78.3        78.3         78.3
1981 Pl        
FFB                          2,475.0      2,310.0      2,310.0     2,310.0      2,310.0      2,310.0      2,145.0      2,145.0      2,145.0      2,145.0      2,145.0      2,145.0
Palm Oil                       495.0        462.0        462.0        462.0        462.0        462.0       429.0        429.0        429.0        429.0        429.0        429.0
Palm Kernels                     99.0        92.4         92.4         92.4         92.4         92.4         85.8         85-8         85.8        85.8         85.8         85.8
1982 Plantigj(300 ha)
FFB                          2,250.0      2,250.0      2,100.0     2,100.0      2,100.0      2,100.0      2,100.0      1,950.0      1,950.0      1,950.0      1,950.0      1,950.0      1,950.0
Palm Oil                       450.0        450.0        420.0        420.0        420.0        420.0        420.0       390.0        390.0        390.0        390.0        390.0        390.0
Palm Kernels                     90.0        90.0         84.0         84.0         84.0         84.0         84.0         78.0         78.0        78.0          78.0        78.0          78.0
Totals
Total FFB                        9,779.0     9,614.0      9,464.0      9,419.0      9,254.0      9,104.0      8,939.0      8,789.0     8,789.11     8,197.0      6,052.0      4,095.0       1,950.0
Total Palm Oil                   1,955.8     1,922.8      1,892.8      1,883.8      1,850.8      1,820.8      1,787.8      1,757.8      1,757.8      1,639.4     1,210.4         819.0        390.0
Total Palm Kernels                 391.2        384.6       378.6        376.8        370.2        364.2        357.6        351.6        351.6        327.9        242.1        163.8         78.0
(Dat
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e _
AChupak: za a 
March 1984
a



GELANA
O1L PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE I - NUCLEUS ESTATE
Product                    il and Palm Kernels (tons)
1981       1982        1983        1984        1985        1986        1987        1988        1989        1990        1991        1992        1993        1994        1995
Nucleus Estat
1977 I'lanting  (190 ha)
FFB                          418.0       950.0    1,292.0    1,596.0    1,900.0    2,185.0    2,185.0    2,185.0    2,185.0    2,185.0    2,185.0    2,090.0    2,090.0    1,995.0    1,995.0
Palm Oil                      79.4       185.3       258.4       319.2       380.0      437.0       437.0       437.0       437.0       437.0       437.0       418.0        418.0       399.0      399.0
Palm Kernels                  13.0        29.5        45.2        63.8        76.0        87.4        87.4        87.4        87.4        87.4        87.4        83.6        83.6        79.8        79.8
1978 Planting (578 ha)
FFB                             -      1,272.0    2,890.0    3,930.0    4,855.0    5,780.0    6,647.0    6,647.0    6,647.0    6,647.0    6,647.0    6,647.0    6,358.0    6,358.0    6,069.0
Palm Oil                        -        241.7       563.6       786.0       971.0    1,156.0    1,329.4    1,329.4    1,329.4    1,329.4    1,329.4    1,329.4    1,271.6    1,271.6    1,213.8
Palm Kernels                    -         39.4        89.6       137.6       194.7       231.2       265.9       265.9      265.9        265.9       265.9       265.9       254.3       254.3       242.8
FFB                    -        1,514.0    3,440.0    ~~~~~~~~4,678.0    5,779.0    6,880.0    7,912.01   7,912.0    7,912.0    7,912.0    7,912.0    7,912.0    7,568.0    7,568.0
FFBasi    (6811                                     1,514.0    3,440 0      4. 356      1 755°    188°0          1524       1524        1.582.4    1,582.4   17 582 4°   1,582.4    7,51368         1,513.6
Palm 011         -           -         ~~~~~~~287.7  670.8     935.6    1,155.8    1,376.0    1,582.4    1,582.4         1,8.        1524        1524        1524        1536        1536
Palm Kernels                  -           -           46.9       106.6       163.7       231.2       275.2       316.5      316.5        316.5       316.5       316.5       316.5       302.7       302.7
1980 Planting  (940  ha)                                 47
FFB                                       -      ~~-          2,068.0    4,700.0    6,392.0    7,896.0    9,400.0   10,810.0   10,810.0   10,810.0   10,810.0   10,810.0   10,810.0   10,340.0                  '
Palm Oil                      -           -           -          392.9       916.5    1,278.4    1,579.2    1,880.0    2,162.0    2,162.0    2,162.0    2,162.0    2,162.0    2,162.0    2,068.0
Palm Kernels                  -           -           -           64.1       145.7       223.7       315.8       376.0      432.4        432.4       432.4       432.4       432.4       432.4       4io
1981 Planting  (774 ha)
FFB                                                   -           -       1,703.0    3,870.0    5,263.0    6,502.0    7,740,0    8,901.0    8,901.0    8,901.0    8,901.0    8,901.0    8,901.0
Palm Oil                      -           -           -           -          323.6       754.7    1,052.6    1,300.4    1,548.0    1,780.2    1,780.2    1,780.0    1,780.2    1,780.2    1,780.2
Palm Kernels                  -           -                                   52.8       120.0       184.2       260.1       309.6       356.0       356.0       356.0       356.0       356.0       356.0
1982 Planting (630 ha)
FFB                           _           _           _                       -       1,386.0    3,150.0    4,284.0    5,292.0    6,300.0    7,245.0    7,245.0    7,245.0    7,245.0    7,245.0
Palm Oil                      -                 -           -         __-                263.3       614.3      856.8    1,058.4    1,260.0    1,449.0    1,449.0    1,449.0    1,449.0    1,449.0
Palm Kernels                  -           -           -           -           -           43.0        97.7       150.0       211.7       252.0       289.8       289.8       289.8       ?89.8       289.8
Total FFB                        418.0   2,222.0    5,696.0   11,034.0   17,836.0   25,392.0   32,021.0   36,930.0   40,586.0   42,755.0   43,700.0   43,605.0   43,316.0   42,877.0   42,118.0
Total Palm Oil                    79.4      427.0    1,109.7    2,168.9    3,526.7    5,045.2    6,388.5    7,386.0    8,117.2    8,551.0    8,740.0    8,721.0    8,663.2    8,575.4    8,423.6
Total Palm Kernels                13.0       68.9       181.7       372.1       632.4       936.5    1,226.2    1,455.9    1,623.5    1,710.2    1,748.0    1,744.2    1,732.6    1,715.0    1,684.7
AChupak: za                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
'0
March 1984                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,<
5a



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   PHASE I - NUCLEUS ESTATE
Production of FFB, Palm Oil and Palm Kernels (tons)
1996       1997        1998        1999        2000        2001        2002        2003        2004        2005        2006        2007        2009        ?Olno
Nucleus Estate (Phase I)
1977 Planting (190 ha)
FFB                        1,900.0    1,900.0    1,805.0    1,805.0    1,710.0    1,710.0    1,710.0
Palm Oil                     380.0       380.0       361.0       361.0       342.0       342.0       342.0
Palm Kernels                  76.0        76.0       72.2        72.2         68.4        68.4        68.4
1978 Planting (578 ha)
FFB                        6,069.0    5,780.0    5,780.0    5,491.0    5,491.0    5,202.0    5,202.0    5,202.0
Palm Oil                   1,213.8    1,156.0    1,156.0    1,098.2    1,098.2    1,040.4    1,040.4    1,040.4
Palm Kernels                 242.8       231.2       231.2       219.7       219.7       208.0       208.0       208.0
1979 Planting (688 ha)
FFB                        7,224.0    7,224.0    6,880.0    6,880.0    6,536.0    6,536.0    6,192.0    6,192.0    6,192.0
Palm Oil                   1,444.8    1,444.8    1,376.0    1,376.0    1,307.2    1,307.0    1,238.4    1,238.4           1,238.4
Palm Kernels                 289.0       289.0       275.2       275.2       261.4       261.4       247.7   4/247.7         247.7
1980 Planting (940 ha)
FFB                       10,340.0    9,870.0    9,870.0    9,400.0    9,400.0    8,930.0    8,930.0    8,460.0    8,460.0    8,460.0
Palm Oil                   2,068.0    1,974.0    1,974.0    1,880.0    1,880.0    1,786.0    1,786.0    1,692.0    1,692.0    1,692.0                                                                      r
Palm Kernels                 413.6       394.8       394.8       376.0       376.0    357.2          357.2       338.4       338.4       338.4
1981 Planting (774 ha)
FFB                        8,514.0    8,514.0    8,127.0    8,127.0    7,740.0    7,740.0    7,353.0    7,353.0    6,966.0    6,966.0    6,966.0
Palm Oil                   1,702.8    1,702.8    1,625.4    1,625.4    1,548.0    1,548.0    1,470.6    1,470.6    1,393.2    1,393.2    1,393.2
Palm Kernels                 340.6       340.6       325.1       325.1       310.0       310.0       294.1       294.1       278.6       278.6       278.6
1982 Planting (630 ha)
FFB                        7,245.0    6,930.0    6,930.0    6,615.0    6,615.0    6,300.0    6,300.0    5,985.0    5,985.0    5,670.0    5,670.0    5,670.0
Palm Oil                   1,449.0    1,386.0    1,386.0    1,323.0    1,323.0    1,260.0    1,260.0    1,197.0    1,197.0    1,134.0    1,134.0    1,134.0
Palm Kernels                 289.8       277.2       277,2       277.2       264.6       264.6       252.0       252.0       239.4      239.4        226.8       226.8
Total FFB                    41,292.0   40,218.0   39,392.0   38,318.0   37,492.0   36,418.0   35,687.0   33,192.0   27,603.0   21,096.0   12,636.0    5,670.0
Total Palm Oil                8,258.4    8,043.6    7,878.4    7,663.6    7,498.4    7,283.6    7,137.4    6,638.4            5,520.6    4,219.2    2,527.2    1,134.0
Total Palm Kernels            1,651.8    1,608.8    1,575.7    1,532.8    1,500.1    1,457.0    1,427.4    1,327.6    1,104.1               843.8       505.4       226.8
m
AChupak: za
March 1984
0



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE 11
Production of FFB, Palm Oil and Palm Kernels
Phase II Outgrowers and Combined Phases I and II Production
1984       1985        1986        1987        1988        1989        1990        1991        1992        1993         1994        1995        1996        1997
Outgrowers - Phase II
1985 Planting (600 ha)
FFB                                                                                    1,200.0    2,340.0    3,360.0    4,140.0    4,500.0    4,500.0    4.500.0    4,500.0    4,500.0
Palm Oil                                                                                 228.0       456.3       672.0       828.0       900.0       900.0       900.0       900.0        900.0
Palm Kernels                                                                              37.2        72.5       117.6       165.6       180.0       180.0       180.0        180.0       180.0
1986 Planting (700 ha)
FFB                                                                                       -        1,400.0    2,730.0    3,920.0    4,830.0    5,250.0    5,250.0    5,250.0    5,250.0
Palm Oil                                                                                  -          266.0       532.4       784.0       966.0    1,050.0    1,050.0    1,050.0    1,050.0
Palm Kernels                                                                              -           43.4        84.6       137.2       193.2        210.0      210.0       210.0        210.0
1987 Planting (700 ha)
FFB                                                                                                   -        1,400.0    2,730.0    3,920.0    4,830.0    5,250.0    5,250.0    5,250.0
Palm Oil                                                                                              -          266.0       532.4       784.0        966.0    1,050.0    1,050.0    1,050.0
Palm Kernels                                                                                          -           43.4        84.6       137.2       193.2        210.0      210.0        210.0      u,
1988 Planting (500 ha)
FFB                                                                                                               -        1,000.0    1,950.0    2,800.0    3,450.0    3,750.0    3,750.0
Palm Oil                                                                                                          -          190.0       380.3        560.0      690.0        750.0       750.0
Palm Kernels                                                                                                      -           31.0        60.5         98.0       138.0      1IO.O        150.0
Total FFB                                                                                 1,200.0    3,740.0    7,490.0   11,790.0   15,200.0   17,380.0   18,450.0  18,750.0    18,750.0
Total Palm Oil                                                                              228.0       722.3    1,470.4    2,334.4    3,030.3    3,476.0    3,690.0    3,750.0    3,750.0
Total Palm Kernels                                                                            37.2       115.9      245.6       418.4        570.9       681.2       738.0       750.0       750.0
Grand Total Phase I and Phase II
FFB                        13,433.0   22,146.0   31,925.0   40,274.0   46,303.0  51,747.0   56,636.0   61,331.0   65,536.0   68,611.0   70,187,0   70,347.0   69,656.0   68,432.0
Palm Oil                    2,636.3    4,376.2    6,339.4    8,033.3    9,260.6  10,337.4   11,301.5   12,238.6   13,083.6   13,712.5   14,037.4   14,069.0   13,931.0   13,686.0
Palm Kernels                  448.6       779.1    1,172.4    1,536.6    1,822.4    2,059.1   2,231.7    2,399.2    2,568.2    2,707.3    2,793.4              2,814.0    2,787.0    2,737.0
AChupak: za
March 1984                                                                                                                                                                                               5s



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Production of FFB, Palis Oil and Palm Kernels
Phase II Outgrowers and Combined Phases I and II Production
1998       1999        2000       2001        2002        2003       2004        2005       2006        2007        2008        2009       2010        2011
Outgrowers - Phase II
1985 Planting (600 ha)
FFB                       4,500.0    4,500.0    4,200.0    4,200.0    4,200.0    4,200.0    4,200.0    3,900.0    3,900.0    3,900.0    3,900.0    3,900.0    3,90J.0
Palm Oil                    900.0       900.0      840.0       840.0       840.0      840.0       840.0       780.0      780.0       780.0       780.0      780.0       783.0
Palm Kernels                180.0       180.0      168.0       168.0       168.0      168.0       168.0       156.0      156.0       156.0       156.0      156.0       155.0
1986 Planting (700 ha)
FFB                       5,250.0    5,250.0    5,250.0    4,900.0    4,900.0    4,900.0    4,900.0    4,900.0    4,550.0    4,550.0    4,550.0    4,550.0    4,550.0    4,550.0
Palm Oil                  1,050.0    1,050.0    1,050.0        980.0       980.0      980.0       980.0       980.0      910.0       910.0       910.0      910.0       910.0       910.0
Palm Kernels                210.0       210.0      210.0       196.0       196.0      196.0       196.0       196.0      182.0       182.0       182.0      182.0       187.0       182.0
1987 Planting (700 ha)
FFB                       5,250.0    5,250.0    5,250.0    5,250.0    4,900.0    4,900.0    4,900.0    4,900.0    4,900.0    4,550.0    4,550.0    4,550.0    4,550.0    4,550.0
Palm Oil                  1,050.0    1,050.0    1,050.0    1,050.0         980.0      980.0       980.0      980.0       980.0       910.0       910.0      910.0       913.0       910.0      °
Palm Kernels                210.0       210.0      210.0       210.0       196.0      196.0       196.0      196.0       196.0       182.0       182.0      182.0       182.0       182.0
1988 Planting (500 ha)
FFB                       3,750.0    3,750.0    3,750.0    3.750.0    39750.0    3,500.0    3,500.0    3,500.0    3,500.0    3,500.0    3,250.0    3,250.0    3,250.0    3,250.0
Palw Oil                    750.0       750.0      750.0       750.0       750.0      700.0       700.0       700.0      700.0       700.0       650.0      650.0       650.0       650.0
Palm Kernels                150.0       150.0      150.0       150.0       150.0      140.0       140.0       140.0      140.0       140.0       130.0      130.0       130.0       130.0
Total FFB                   18,750.0   18,750.0   18,450.0   18,100.0   17,750.0   17,500.0   17,500.0   17,200.0   16,850.0   16,500.0   16,250.0   16,250.0   16,250.0   12,350.0
Total Palm Oil               3,750.0    3,750.0    3,690.0    3,620.0    3,550.0    3,500.0    3,500.0    3,440.0    3,370.0    3,300.0    3,250.0    3,250.0    3,253).0    2,470.0
Total Palm Kernels             750.0       750.0       738.0      724,0       710.0       700.0      700.0       688.0      674.0       660.0       650.0      650.0       650.0       494.0
Grand Total Phase I & II
FFB                      67,561.0   66,322.0   65,046.0   63,457.0   62,226.0   59,481.0   53,300.0   44,348.0   33,581.0   24,120.0   16,250.0   16,250.1)   16,250.0   12,350.0
Palm Oil                 13,512.0   13,264.0   13,009.0   12,691.0   12,445.0   11,896.0   10,660.0    8,870.0    6,716.0    4,824.0    3,250.0    3,250.0    3,250.0    2,470.0
Palm Kernels              2,703.0    2,653.0    2,602.0    2,539.0    2,489.0    2,379.0    2,132.0    1,774.0    1,343.0            965.0       650.0      650.0       659.0       494.0    M
0a
AChupak: za
March 1984



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
Economic Millgate Price of Palm Oil
(1983 Constant Terms)
C.I.F. Tema          Port and            Transport              Value
World Bank                   Palm Oil            Handling               to                   at
Palm Oil Price Forecast           Price 2/              Charges          Millgate 3/           Millgate
Year               ($/m. ton)                 (¢/m. ton)           (¢/m. ton)          (¢/m. ton)          (¢/m. ton)
T1)                   (2)                         (3)                  (4)                 (5)                 (6) = (3)+(4)-(5)
1982                  459*                      16,065                 125                 350               15,840
1983                  502*                      17,570                 125                 350               17,345
1984                  566                       19,810                 125                 350               19,585
1985                  502                       17,570                 125                 350               13,345
1986                  512                       17,920                 125                 350               17,695
1987                  522                       18,270                 125                 350               18,045
1988                  533                       18,655                 125                 350               18,430
1989                  543                       19,005                 125                 350               18,780
1990                  553                       19,355                 125                 350               19,130
1991                  553                       19,355                 125                 350               19,130
1992                  553                       19,355                 125                 350               19,130
1993                  552                       19,320                 125                 350               19,095
1994                  552                       19,320                 125                 350               19,095
1995                  551                       19,285                 125                 350               19,060
*Actual
1/ Malaysian, 5% bulk, CIF N.W. Europe.
2/ The average 1983 CIFprice TEMA for oil palm imports from Ivory Coast was approximately the same as the World Bank                z
actual price for 1983 (col 1).  This price has been converted to cedis at a shadow exchange rate of ¢35=US $1.00.
3/ Financial cost ¢500 per ton for a distance of about 177 km at ¢2.83 per ton/km; economic cost 70%.                              >X



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Economic Millgate Price of Palm Kernels
(1983 Constant Terms)
World Bank                                                                                Port and       Transport        Value
Palm Kernel       Freight                     Marketing       F.O.B.         F.O.B.       Handling        Millgate         at
Price Forecast       Cost        Insurance         Costs         Tema           Tema         Charges        To Tema        Millgate
Yeaqr   ($/m. ton)l/   ($/m. ton)  ($/mr. ron)2/  ($/m. ton)3/  ($/m. ton)  (/rm. ton)4/  (C//m. ton)  (/¢/m. ton)5/  (/r/m. ton)
(1)            (2)            (3)            (4)            (5)           (6)            (7)           (8)    9=(6)-(7)--(8)
1982         279*            115           1.0            2.8           160.2         5607            125            350          5132
1983         362*           115            1.3            3.6           242.1         8474            125            350          7999
1984         397            115            1.4            4.0           276.6         9681            125            350          9206
1985         336            115            1.2            3.4           216.4         7574            125            350          7099
1986         339            115            1.2            3.4           219.4         7679            125            350          7204    ,
1987         342            115            1.2            3.4           222.4         7784            125            350          7309
1988         345            115            1.2            3.5           225.3         7885            125            350          7410
1989         348            115            1.2            3.5           228.3         7991            125            350          7516
1990         350            115            1.2            3.5           230.3         8061            125            350          7586
1991         348            115            1.2            3.5           228.3         7991            125            350          7516
1992         346            115            1.2            3.5           226.3         7921            125            350          7446
1993         344            115            1.2            3.4           224.4         7854            125            350          7379
1994         342            115            1.2            3.4           222.4         7784            125            350          7309
1995         341            115            1.2            3.4           221.4         7749            125            350          7274
*Actual
1/ Nigerian, CIF UK.
2/ 0.35% of COL (1).
31 1% of col (1).
4/ Converted at a shadow exchange rate of C35 = US$1.00.
5/ Financial cost C500 per ton for a distance of about 177 km. at ¢2.82 per ton/km; economic cost 70%.                                 U'



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Estimated Economic Rate of Return for Combined Phases I and II
(Constant 1983 Terms)
(O Millions)
Costs and Benefits                 1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993              1994
A.   COSTS
PHASE I
Investment Costs                   1.8    3.1   11.0   13.0   34.8   50.3   10.7
Operating Costs                      -       -      -       -      -    9.4   13.5
Foreign Exchange Costs             1.2    1.0    2.9    6.0   19.3   11.4    7.3
MUV Adj. Factor 1/                 0.8    0.9    1.0    1.1    1.1    1.0    1.0
Foreign Component: 1983 Terms    1.6    1.1    2.8    5.4   18.4   11.1    7.3
Shadow Exchange Factor 2/          2.6    3.9    2.4    4.4    9.1   10.9    3.7
Economic Cedi Equivalent           4.1    4.2    6.8   23.8  167.3  120.6   27.0
Local Costs                        0.7    2.2    8.2    7.0   15.5   48.2   16.9
Local Deflator Index 3/            0.1    0.1    0.2    0.3    0.7    0.8    1.0
Local Costs 1983 terms             6.1   16.9   41.0   23.3   23.8   60.2   16.9
Total Phase I Economic Costs    10.2   21.2   47.8   47.1  191.1  180.9   43.9
PHASE II
Investment Costs (Economic)4/
Housing                                                                                 20.4   31.7   34.7   35.0   40.2         -                                     -
Buildings                                                                               16.0      -       -       -      -           -              -          -       -
Vehicles                                                                                26.8    8.2    6.4    9.1   10.8   26.8    8.2    6.4    9.1   10.8   26.8
General Equipt. & Furn.                                                                 15.5    1.7    0.5    2.9    0.2         -      -   15.4    1.7    0.5    2.9
Mill Equiptment                                                                            -       -   95.4          -       -       -      -       -          -       -
Training & Consultants                                                                   4.1    8.0    6.2    6.1    3.5         -      -       -       -      -       -
Plantation Inputs                                                                        3.8    4.1       -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -
Tools & Miscellaneous                                                                    0.2    0.2       -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -
Sub-total                                                                               86.8   53.9  143.2   53.1   54.7   26.8    8.2   21.9   10.8   11.3   29.6
Operating Costs (Economic)
Intji Salaries                                                                          12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7         -      -       -       -      -       -
Local Salaries & Wages                                                                  19.3   19.2   19.4   19.6   15.1   15.1   15.1   15.1   15.1   15.1   15.1
Vehicle Operation & Maint.                                                               5.0    6.7    7.3    8.5   10.6   10.6   10.6   10.6   10.6   10.6   10.6
Equipment Op. & Maint.                                                                   5.1    7.1    9.1    9.1    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7
Gen. Office Costs                                                                        1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1
Inputs, tools & Il4isc.                                                                  7.1   10.1   17.9~ 20.4'  25.8   25.8   25.8   25.8   25.8   25.8   25.8
Sub-total                                                                               50.4   56.8   67.5   71.5   74.0   61.4   61.4   61.4   61.4   61.4   61.4
Total Phase II Economic Costs                                                          137.1  110.7  210.8  124.6  128.8   °8.1   69.5   83.    72.2   72.7   91.0
Total Phase I + II Econ.          10.2   21.2   47.8   47.1  191.1  180.9   43.9   137.1  110.7  210.8  124.6  128.8   88.1   69.5   83.3   72.2   72.7   91.0
Costs 5/
B.   BENEFITS                                                                                                                                                                    x
Total Economic Value of            -       -      -       _       1.3    7.7   24.3    55.R   63.9  120.6  156.2  1R4.2  209.6  233.1  252.2  269.4  281.R  288.5 0 .
Production 6/
Net Benefits                     -10.2  -21.1  -47.8 -189.8 -173.2  -19.6  -81.3   -46.8  -90.2   31.6   55.4  121.5  163.6  168.9  197.2  209.8  209.1  197.5 a
Internal Rate of Return = 12.3%                                                                  o



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Estimated Economic Rate of Return for Combined Phases I and II
(Constant 1983 Terms)
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011
PHASE II
Investment
Vehicles                         8.2      6.4     9.1    10.8    26.8        8.2      6.2      9.1    10.8    26.8       8.2      6.4      9.1    10.8    26.8        8.2      6.2
Gen. Equipment                   0.2     -        -       15.4      1.7      0.5      2.9      0.2      -       -       15.4      1.7      0.5      2.9      0.2      _        _
Sub-total                        8.4      6.4     9.1    26.2    28.5        8.7      9.1      9.3    10.8    26.8    23.6        8.1      9.6    13.7    27.0        8.2      6.2
Operating Cost
Int'l Salaries                  14.9    14.7    14.5    14.3    14.0    13.7    13.0    12.0    10.2            8.2
Local Salaries                  10.5    10.4    10.3    10.2    10.0         9.8      9.3      8.6      7.3     5.8
Vehicle Operation &              8.6      8.5     8.4      8.3      8.1      7.9      7.5      6.9      5.9     4.7
Maintenance
Equip. Op. & M.aintenance        1.1      1.1     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      0.9     0.9
Gen. Office Costs               25.4    25.0    24.7    24.4    23.8    23.2    22.1    20.3    17.3    13.9
Sub-total                       60.5    59.7    58.9    58.2    56.9    55.6    52.9    48.8    41.6    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5                  33.5
Total Phase II                  68.9    66.1    68.0    84.4    85.4    64.3    61.6    58.1    52.4    60.3    57.1    41.6    43.1    47.2    60.5    41.7                  39.7
Economic Cost
Total Phase I & II              68.9    66.1    68.0    84.4    85.4    64.3    61.6    58.1    52.4    60.3    57.1    41.6    43.1    47.2    60.5    41.7                  39.7    O
Economic Cost
BENEFITS
Total Economic Value           288.6   285.8   280.8   277.2   272.1   266.9   260.4   255.3   244.1   218.7   182.0   137.8    99.0    66.7    66.7    66.7                  66.7
of Production
Net Benefits                   219.7   219.7   212.8   192.8   186.7   202.6   198.8   197.2   191.7   158.4   124.9    96.2    55.9    19.5                 6.2    25.0      27.0
Internal Rate of Return   12.3%
i.ihupak: .a
March 1984
a, 
0



- 71 -
ANNEX 9
Table 6 (cont.)
Footnotes to Annex 9, Table 6
1/ MUV=Manufacturing Unit Value Index - Data provided by IBRD Commodities
Division, January 1984.
2/ Assumes following shadow exchange rates: (¢ to US$): 1977 (03); 1978 (¢4.5);
1979 (¢6.5); 1980 (012); 1981 (025); 1982 (030); 1983 (035). The shadow
exchange factor is calculated by dividing the shadow exchange rate by the
average official exchange rate prevailing during the year.
3/  Consumer price under based on period average provided from IMF Financial
Statistics 1983.
4/ The Investment and Operating Costs for Phase II were converted into
economic costs based on the assumptions listed at the beginning of
Annex 9.
5/ Included in the costs is the value of the cocoa production foregone on
land acquired for estates. Although the cocoa on this land was badly
affected by Swollen Shoot Virus disease, a yield of 50 kg/ha was assumed
for 5 years. Net value of production foregone on smallholders' land is
assumed to be compensated by net value of present food crop production
and is not included.
6/ The total value of production is the total production of palm oil and
palm kernels (Annex 9, Tables 1 and 2) times the economic prices for
those commodities (Annex 9, Tables 3 and 4).



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Estimated Economic Rate of Return for Phase II
(Constant 1983 Terms)
(¢ Million)
Costs and Benefits                        1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996  97-2000 2001    contd.
PHASE II
Investment Cost (Economic)
Buildings                                 2.1         -               -       -       -      -       -      -       -       -          -       -       -
Vehicles                                  2.5    2.4    1.3    2.3    3.5    2.5    2.4    1.3    2.3    3.5    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2
Gen. Equipment & Furniture                1.9    0.7    0.1    1.0    0.1    0.1    1.9    0.7    0.1    1.0    0.1    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4
Mill Equipment                              -       -   31.8       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -               -
Training and Cons.                        1.4    2.2    2.1    1.1        -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
Outgrower Inputs                          1.4    1.0       -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -
Outgrower Tools & Miscellaneous           0.1    0.1       -       -      -              -       -      -       -       -      -       -              -
Total Econ. Inv. Costs                    9.5    6.5   35.4    4.4    3.6    2.6    4.3    2.0    2.4    4.5    4.3    476    4.6    4.6    4.6
Operating Costs (Economic)
Local Salaries & Wages                    2.3    4.1    5.0    5.6    2.8    3.1    3.1    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2
Vehicle O+M                               1.1    2.4    2.5    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1
Equipment O+M                             1.1    2.2    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1
General Office                            0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4
Inputs, Tools & Miscellaneous             0.5    2.4    5.3    5.3    7.7    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5
Total Econ OP Costs                       5.4   11.5   14.2   13.5   13.0   14.1   14,    13.2   13.2   13.2   13.2   13.2   13.2   13.2   13.2
Total Economic Costs                     14.9   17.9   49.6   17.9   16.6   16.7   18.5   15.3   15.8   17.7   17.6   17.9   17.9   17.9   17.9
Economic Benefits
Total Value of Phase II Production          -      -       -       -      -    4.6   14.7   30.0   47.8   62.1   71.4   71.2   75.7   76.9   75.7
Net Benefits                            (14.9) (17.9) (49.6) (17.9) (16.6) (12.1)  (3.8)  14.7   32.0   44.4   53.8   53.3   57.8   59.0   57.8
Economic Rate of Return 17.73%
a ,I
AChupak:za                                                                                                                                                    I
March 22, 1984                                                                                                                                                0



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Estimated Economic Rate of Return for Phase II
(Constant 1983 Terms)
(¢ Million)
Continued:
2002    2003    2004-5    2006    2007    2008    2009-11
Total Economic Costs                      17.9    17.9      17.9      17.9    17.9    17.9    17.9
Economic Benefits
Total Value of Phase ii Production        74.3    72.8      71.8      70.6    69.1    67.7       66.7                                                        w
Net Benefits                              56.4    54.9      53.9      52.7    51.2    49.8       48.8
Economic Rate of Return 17.73%
= :e
March 23, 1984                                                                                                                                                        5
AChupak:za                                                                                                                                                            a
0



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE 11
Ghana Oil Palm Deselopment Corporiffon
Organization Chart
|   Ministry oft AQdculturem |
Boardofd DiretorXs
I I|        I                  | Internal Audottier
|Depuhy MirWnrVln Dirco               
Agriculture Manogozaer                                                                                                   MrJnrWe 'EA.Isr                                      Adrinir&t Pron
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d                                                        -           _      ,       I CosrcIo           CIe  . =u t
L e  1 3    Ri    L g         M      1   9    * -   i              i Mrinrzaer/~Ast.  sst.Engmoi                                                                    Enie &Miti   r      Cit    et|0 i i| 9Accountant|
SuperErcs          Sr Nurse            Droisrsn/            SueMor             Suerisrssurveyor                           Secussy          Production         Moisstersonce                         AssI. AccourstoPdto
World Bankl-25&dl



. BRD 16043
15'                 A  N  AI0:55' 1°lo                                                                                                                                                   SEPTEMBER 1981
GHANA                                                                          01'
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                  012345                                    10
PHASE  II                                                                                                                                      MILES
Concessio-  of Ghana O, Pole  Development Corporation                                               - 
Phase I Nucleus Estate !
j         Phase I S-salholders Area                                                   \           y;                                                                                          65,
6uTu I   Phase I Owtgromers Areas                                                      V
Potential Outgrowers Area for Phase I:
|J 1      Forest Reserves
First Class Roads
Second Class Roads
------  Third Class Roads
Trocks                                                r                                                     -,
-----i   Ra llwos                               5                      !iIWi                      jorifr9          
-6o20'               - ---:-  Rivers                               ,>      R   AN                                    V                                  A                                                         6'20-
Rego,,al Boa,,ndaries                                                           C .   MMJS                                       a      ' >                    . -
..........  ..........                ~BAA.
*   - j   > '    -Si                                                                         P )
......    k                                                                      AKfOlVASO                                                                                B
6156                                                                                                                    AR                                                       M                          15
-            RRENAS]~~~~~....... *........
-6'l0                                                                                                                                      IWANTANAN~~~~605'eO
0   n'0t,,io.isr.nOAAOAS
0dnr~ 0 ~flmIfr, m nhi p3 0i  Th'                                                                                                        0 ibEe g lfr.,  ,  L   0   w
0.mnh  ebd ;u ofioo4   Orr,"..,,..I f                                                                                                                                      I,  .                        A-
a/y erin x dr ndhn" S                                                                                                                                                                             PEAMKESE*   SJrI 
oIrh Mepalnat, or      uhfomss;         -                                        _.
'    "'\y .%S  Gf4iANA f} :\z::;'                                                                                                         K                           y    f                  BCOADUAA
\1:2 IVORSf    \; 6       '1  t  '                                                                                                              '1                             I              *  '- .()
*   ~ gI                                        I jjIi3 N :i      t                                                                          ,f                     g        AEWATIA       <
n!  . ;r  .' :, :./,1'10                                    1405'              ABENASI    1-00                              055'S'                  '        0~50's 70 Ancre



