Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25346
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-433 10; PPFB-P33 10)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15 MILLION
TO THE
KAZAKHSTAN
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL POST-PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
JANUARY 31, 2003
Envionmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 1/29/2003)
Currency Unit = Kazahk Tenge
I KZT = US$ 0.006
US$ I = 153.3 KZT
FISCAL YEAR
January I -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL          Adaptable Program Lending
APPAP        Agricultural Post Privatization Assistance Project
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESW          Economic Sector Work
GOC          Group of Consultants
GOK          Govemment of Kazakhstan
LAS          International Accounting Standards
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IFI          Intemational Financial Institution
ISA          International Standards on Auditing
KZT          Kazakh Tenges
MIS          Marketing Information System
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MTR          Mid Term Review
NBK          National Bank of Kazakhstan
PCD          Project Concept Document
PFI          Participating Financial Institution
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
RAC          Rural Advisory Centers
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:  Denniis de Tray
Sector Director:  T aura Tuck
Task Team Leader:  Hoonae Kim



KAZAKHSTAN
KAZAHSTAN AGRICULTURAL POST-PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Pnncipal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               14
6. Sustainability                                                                   16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  17
9. Partner Comments                                                                 19
10. Additional Information                                                          24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               36
Annex 8. Aggregate Information of PFI Portfolio                                     37
Annex 9. PFI Financial Standing and Portfolio Quality                               38
Annex 10. Comparison of Market Interest Rates                                       40
Map: IBRD 29505R






Project ID: P008503                                       Project Name: KAZAHSTAN AGRICULTURAL
POST-PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Team Leader: Hoonae Kim                                   TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type* Core ICR                                        Report Date: January 31, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: KAZAHSTAN AGRICULTURAL                         L/C/TFNumber: SCL-43310;
POST-PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT                        PPFB-P3310
Country/Department: KAZAKHSTAN                                           Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: General finance sector (82%); Central government
administration (15%); Capital markets (3%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   09/16/1994                             Effective: 08/24/1998         10/23/1998
Appraisal:  02/0411998                                MTR: 02/28/2000           06/26/2002
Approval:  06/02/1998                              Closing: 01/31/2002          07/31/2003
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Other Partners.  British Know How Fund, European Union
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President       Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Dennis de Tray                            Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:      Laura Tuck                                Laura Tuck
Team Leader at ICR:  Hoonae Kim
ICR Primary Author-  Dara Lengkong
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability- L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
QualityatEntry- S                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background
The Government of Kazakhstan (GOK) requested Bank support for the Agricultural Post Privatization
Assistance Project (APPAP) during the period when the agricultural sector in Kazakhstan was experiencing
a prolonged crisis. Agricultural production was at its lowest in 30 years, a significant number of farms
were facing mounting losses, and rural income levels were steadily declining. To counter these trends, the
GOK had introduced key policy reforms in the areas of farm privatization, land code, and registration laws,
and eliminated state controls on agricultural trading, as well as on prices and marketing. Yet these
measures did little to improve the condition of the agricultural sector, as fundamental weaknesses still
remained. Most noteworthy was the poor outcome of farm privatization due to the lack of transparency,
which led to the concentration of farm ownership in the hands of relatively few, larger owners. And
although some reforms were introduced, the overall legal and institutional framework was still weak.
Furthermore, post-privatization farmers were not able to revitalize their farms, as a rural financial system,
providing farmers' needs for working capital and medium term investments, was virtually nonexistent.
Against this background, the GOK requested multi-phased Adaptable Program Lending (APL) support
over 10 years with a total indicative financing plan of US$85 million to address the medium term
development agenda of the sector. The first phase of the APL for US$15 million was approved on June 2,
1998, the Loan Agreement was signed on June 23, 1998, and it became effective on October 23, 1998.
The first phase was to focus on building institutional and human capacity and on creating an environment
where private farms can properly function. Building upon lessons learned in the first phase, the two
subsequent phases would intensify and expand the Program agenda.
Project Objectives
This Project is the first phase of a three phase Program. The Program objectives are to: (a) maintain the
policy framework for development of private rural enterprises and strengthening of the market economy;
(b) improve the flow of information, advice and training to newly emerging rural enterprises; (c) support
the development of rural financial markets and improve the access of rural enterprises to commercial
financial services; and (d) introduce further legal and institutional reforms to improve the rural financial
system and strengthen bankruptcy procedures.
Within these Program objectives, the main objectives of the Project are to: (a) facilitate commercialization
of rural enterprises aimed at increasing farm productivity and incomes; (b) assist commercial-banks for
financing; and (c) strengthen the legal and institutional framework for agricultural lending and for
bankruptcy procedures of agricultural enterprises. These project objectives would be achieved by
providing support for: (i) establishment of rural advisory and information services; (ii) development of a
sound legal and institutional framework for secured lending and the protection of creditor rights; and (iii)
facilitating commercial bank lending for working capital and medium term financing for restructured farms
and other rural enterprises.
According to the PAD, the APPAP to be implemented over five years would focus on the establishment of
the legal framework, institutions and procedures to support improved performance of rural enterprises and
provide credit to commercially viable restructured enterprises. The subsequent second phase, APL II,
would build upon results from the first phase by expanding into additional oblasts the coverage of advisory
-2-



services, increasing the amount of financing for rural enterprises, and introducing other rural business
supporting measures as required. The APL III would expand the Program nationwide, while promoting
increased availability of credit from the banking sector's own resources and further development of rural
advisory services.These objectives were highly relevant to the country's needs for development of the rural
sector, where most of the country's population lives, and consistent with the Bank CAS goal of completing
Kazakhstan's transition into a market economy.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The overall Project and Program objectives remain unchanged despite some modifications made in Project
design and implementation arrangements, as discussed in Section 3.4 below.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project had four main components: (a) Rural Advisory Services; (b) Credit; (c) Institutional
Development; and (d) Project Implementation Unit Support.
The Rural Advisory Services Component was to provide advisory and information services to rural
enterprises, and to build a business infrastructure for the delivery of advice and training on technical and
commercial practices. Through these services, the component was designed to enable rural business
people to undertake necessary changes in ownership structure, as well as management, commercial and
technical practices through two Rural Advisory Centers (RACs) in Almaty and Akmola regions.
The Credit Component was to provide critically lacking investment and working capital financing through
eligible participating financial institutions (PFIs) to rural enterprises with viable business plans and
demonstrated repayment ability. TA and training were also to be provided to improve PFIs' capacity in
rural lending.
The Institutional Development Component was to provide technical assistance (TA) and training for the
implementation of bankruptcy proceedings, and to develop an institutional and legal framework that
facilitates the use of a wide range of assets including land and moveable property as collateral to help build
a sustainable financial system.
The Project Implementation Unit (PIM) Component was to provide TA, training and establishment
support for a PIU under the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), which has the primary responsibilities for
coordinating all activities under the Project.
In addition, a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was provided to support initial preparation activities,
including the early start-up costs associated with establishment of PIU and advisory centers, initial training
of staff, and assessment of potential PFIs to ensure they meet the eligibility criteria.
3.4 Revised Components:
During the implementation, per request of the Borrower, several important changes were made to
the component designs and implementation arrangements.
- 3-



Rural Advisory Component. The two regional RAC as noncommercial entities proved to be neither
effective nor sustainable for the provision of advisory services to rural enterprises. In July 2001, the RAC
concept was abolished under the Project and instead, a competitive tendering scheme to provide
demand-driven and small-scale contracts through private consultants was introduced, along with a grant
co-financing scheme to support the preparation of business plans for loans up to US$150,000.
Credit Component. While the component objectives and implementation arrangements remain unchanged,
several changes to terms and conditions were introduced to expedite the implementation; (a) expansion of
geographical coverage to six additional oblasts (The additional oblasts were East Kazakhstan, Pavlodar,
North Kazakhstan, Kostanai, West Kazakhstan and South Kazakhstan.); (b) introduction of leasing with
the maximum leasing exposure up to US$1.5 million; (c) increase of the maximum sub-loan limit to
US$750,000; (d) amendment of the procurement threshold for "commercial practices procurement" to US$
I million; and (e) increase of Bank financing of subloan to 100%.
Institution Development Component. This component remains unchanged although altemative sources of
funds were used to implement the component (see section 4.2).
Project Implementation Unit Component. As part of the Govermment's overall efforts to integrate the
management of development projects into line ministries, all independent PIUs (for all IFIs projects) were
abolished and their functions were integrated into respective line ministries. For APPAP, in March 2000,
consultants hired under a special unit Group of Consultants (GOC), which reports directly to a Vice
Minister of Agriculture, were substituted for PIU.
Other changes. To realize the above changes: (a) several reallocations were made across disbursement
categories; (b) the Project closing date was extended from January 31, 2002 to July 31, 2003; and (c) the
deadline for submission of sub-loan applications was extended from June 30, 2001 to January 31, 2003.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
APPAP was reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) in early 1999, and rated as marginally
satisfactory. While QAG noted the Project's competent social assessment and good sector analysis, it
pointed out several areas of concem, most of which were mitigated during implementation (see table
below):
Issues raised by QAG           Comments
The Project appeared to place great  Farm privatization was almost completed before the Project was in
emphasis on financial interventions  place and Government had limited options to directly affect the
without adequately addressing the  restructuring of post privatization farms other than implementing
ineffective Government-led farm  more efficient bankruptcy procedures, which the Project supported.
restructuring process;         Recognizing the limited options, the Project was deliberately
designed to induce credit-led incentives for post privatization farmers
to become more efficient. A Bank study subsequently conducted
found that profound, positive impacts had resulted under the
Government-introduced bankruptcy procedures.
Services for family farms were not  APPAP facilitated provision of commercial credit to newly emerged,
specifically designed;         yet commercially viable rural enterprises including family farms. At
completion, 49 percent of credit recipients and more than 80 percent
of beneficiaries of the rural advisory services were family farms.
-4 -



The credit component was designed  The credit component has been fully implemented as appraised with
without adequate analysis of PFIs,  over 98 percent repayment rates. Out of 119 loans made, only 2 have
was too narrowly targeted, had a  experienced difficulties. Seven PFIs fully maintained the eligibility
high geographical concentration and  criteria and National Bank's prudential norms and the same set of
had unmitigated currency risks,  the banks are also serving EBRD, IFC and other international credit
posing high risks to PFls;      facilities. Two also have floated bonds in international capital
markets. Furthermore, PFIs performances were closely monitored by
the task team. Geographical limitations for lending were removed.
Training and field operations for  With the transformation of the RAC model to a competitive
advisory networks were not      tendering scheme, a total of 258 training workshops were held with
adequately phased;              more than 10,000 participants, and the pace of establishing an
advisory network for provision of commercial advice remains strong.
The Project development objective  The Project was designed to build the initial foundation and
of 20 loans to corporate farms and  momentum for a sustainable rural financial system that could be
70 loans to family farms was very  enhanced under following stages of APL. At the time of ICR
limited.                        preparation, total of 119 sub-loans were made or in the pipeline, of
which 61 were for corporate farms and 58 were for family farms. The
D proportion of the family farms is rapidly increasing.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project objectives were satisfactorily achieved and are consistent with meeting the overall Program
objectives. The first phase APPAP was to develop the foundations and refine institutional and operational
procedures needed to accelerate the commercialization of rural enterprises, by establishing an advisory
services network, creating a legal and institutional environment conducive to rural lending, and providing
means, both financial and capacity building, for commercial banks to increase lending to rural enterprises.
Although perhaps modest quantitatively in terms of the number of loans made, the outcome and impact
resulting from the Project have been significant: (a) farm restructuring is being implemented through
disciplined and well executed bankruptcy procedures; (b) a legal foundation for moveable collateral and
warehouse receipts is in place with active support by IFIs; (c) the institutional and operational structure for
delivering private sector rural advisory services is in place; and (d) commercial lending to rural clients
through private commercial banks has begun expanding.
The Project has established a solid foundation for a sustainable rural financial system. There was a near
absence of agricultural credit being extended through commercial banks when the Project started. At
completion, seven commercial banks are active, the loan portfolio is growing, and the share of family farms
reached 49 percent of the total number of loans made and continued to grow. Of the loans disbursed during
2002 alone, the share of family farms was as high as 62 percent. In addition to making long-term
agricultural credit available, the Project has also reduced commercial banks' general bias for making large
loans to large-scale corporate farms. The average subloan size has significantly declined to less than
US$74,000 in 2002 and the average loan size for family farms is even smaller at around US$37,000. The
relative shares of PFIs and borrowers' own equity contributions are also increasing. Through injecting
credit and necessary institutional capacity building support, and demonstrating that credit to agricultural
clients, particularly to private family fanns can be viable, the Project has contributed towards the
- 5 -



increasing confidence in rural economic activities held both by lenders and borrowers. The injection of
competitively priced, long-term investment funds under the Project has fnally allowed post-privatization
farmers to invest in productive assets, which in turn improved their productivity and income. Field visits
and the beneficiary survey results demonstrated that APPAP financing had an immediate, direct, and
positive impact on productivity and employment generation, and facilitated the diversification into other
non-agricultural business activities.
In addition, the availability of rural advisory services was introduced and the network's capacity in
supporting the rural business community continued to strengthen. A substantial part of the rural community
has had experience with the various services of the network through infornational campaigns, technical
workshops, business-plan preparation, and loan application assistance. High satisfaction was expressed by
the recipients as to the quality and applicability of the services provided -some even indicated their
willingness to pay market level fees in retur-and the demand for services continues to increase (A survey
done under an independent consultant assessment report conducted in July 2002 confirmed the rural
community's satisfaction on quality of rural advisory services and continuing demand for such services).
Assessment of APL Trigger Points
In line with APL procedures, results from APPAP need to be assessed before preparation of APL II can be
initiated. The first phase had five trigger points:
(a) Institutional capacity of RACs and PIU evaluated as sufficient to expand the program;
(b) RACs performing satisfactorily in terms of initial contracts, on-going client support, establishment of
supporting consultant network, and ability to earn fees (achieving at least 75 percent of performance
indicators);
(c) At least 75 percent of credit component committed for a balanced portfolio of small family farms,
larger corporate farms, and associated enterprises with at least four PFIs that are interested in
participating in a second phase and can demonstrate sufficient capacity to handle an expanded program
of lending;
(d) Less than 10 percent of total outstanding balance of Project financed sub-loans classified as
non-performing; and
(e) Bankruptcy procedures in use and laws on registration of pledges of moveable property enacted.
All of the triggers for moving into APL II were met (see Annex IC for more details), with the exception of
those related to RACs which became irrelevant after the Rural Advisory Component was revised and RACs
were replaced with private advisory consultants.
Although credit coverage and outreach can be broadened further, the credit line was performing
satisfactorily while carrying commercial conditions, offering positive real interest rates, and maintaining
exceptionally high repayment rates. Significant capacity building was undertaken within the Government,
PFIs, advisory providers and beneficiaries, to promote a vibrant rural economy. During the ICR mission,
all stakeholders expressed strong interests to pursue APL II to further enhance the Program's outreach.
The Government in particular had confirmed its strong commitment for APL II, which is encouraging
considering GOK declaration that it will significantly reduce borrowing from the Bank and its cancellation
of several other Bank projects in the lending pipeline (The Healthcare Project, which was under
implementation, and the Rural Roads Development Project, which was under preparation, were both
canceled by the Government). While doing so, GOK also included counterpart funds in the 2003 budget to
support the preparation for APL II. APPAP gained strong momentum, particularly towards its end. A
timely APL II could capitalize on APPAP achievements and address areas still outstanding on the
- 6 -



development agenda.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. The Rural Advisory Component (Bank Financing at Appraisal: US$ 0.94 million; Bank
Financing at Completion: US$ 1.09 million) was to finance TA, training and establishment of RA Cs, for
a sustainable consulting network thatprovidesfarmers with access to information, technical and
commercial advice and training.
Overall, APPAP had successfully established the initial foundation for a private rural consulting network.
APPAP introduced for the first time a range of consulting services proven to be beneficial in
commercializing rural business activities and in nurturing the process of diversification into non-traditional
rural activities. A beneficiary survey confirmed that there is a high unfulfilled demand for rural credit and
the consulting services. More than US$1 million was provided to facilitate the capacity building of a large
number of rural consultants who in turn assisted rural entrepreneurs previously lacking sound business
concepts and basic business skills.
The original design of the Rural Advisory Component was to establish independent, non-profit RACs that
would identify and accredit advisory organizations, assist in their capacity building, and provide referrals
for farmers to access appropriate advisory services. Approximately US$265,000 was spent for TA, office
hardware procurement, and other initial start-up costs in the establishment of two RACs in Almaty and
Astana oblasts. During their tenure, 94 information campaigns and 13 training seminars were carried out,
initial credit consultations were held with 1000 prospective borrowers, 67 business plans were prepared, of
which 15 were granted with actual credit by PFIs. Despite these results, the RAC concept which was
based on public institutions providing commercial services to private farmers proved to be inefficient and
unsustainable. The original approach also created an unfair competitive environment for private consultants
that did not receive support from the RACs.
Hence in July 2001, the RAC concept was transformed to a competitive small contract tendering model
with participation of private consulting firms. This revision has set the initial groundwork for
commercialization of rural consulting services, and has enhanced sustainability of the system through
strengthening institutional, technical, commercial management capacity of the private service providers.
Eight consultancy contracts were awarded to carry out 40 information campaigns and 111 training
seminars in different regions of the country to provide support to farmers in broad areas, including tax and
bankruptcy laws, agro-technical issues, and assistance in business plan preparation and credit applications.
Credit consultations were held with more than 570 interested borrowers, 73 business plans were prepared,
of which 36 were approved by PFIs. Under the revised approach, the provision of advisory support to
farmers was substantially improved, in terms of both quantity and quality. Within just over one year, the
number of seminars held was accelerated, coverage in geographic areas and number of participants were
significantly increased, and the success rate for loan approval was also improved from 22 percent to 49
percent. Feedback received from the participants on the quality of seminars held was very positive and most
reiterated the continuing demand for such support (as confirmed by the July 2002 assessment report done
by an independent consultant). Attached table below provides summarized the component outputs.
- 7 -



Total Contacts with Clients during RACs Tenure and Consultants Contract (1998-2002)
RAC          Consultant
(1998-        Contracts     TOTAL
mid 2001)         (mid
2001-2002)
Number of Seminars and Information          107            151          258
Camnpaigns held
Number of Seminar Participants            4,960          5,108         10,068
Number of Initial Credit Consultations held  1,000        570          1,570
Number of Business Plans Prepared          67              73           140
Number of Loans Approved                   15              36           51
Percentage of loans approved to business   22%            49%          36%
plans prepared                                                     I
B. The Credit Component (Bank Financing at Appraisal: US$ 12.29 million; Bank Financing at
Completion: US$ 12.29 million) was to provide financing through PFIs to private farmns and associated
enterprises, and to strengthen PFIs capacity in commercial rural lending.
Overall review of the banking sector and PFIs. The adverse effects of the Russian crisis in 1998 had
been contained and significant growth was experienced since early 2000. Domestic deposits grew rapidly,
reflecting enhanced depositor confidence, and banks expanded their lending to domestic firns, albeit mostly
in the form of short-term and fully collateralized working capital financing. Overall, the banking sector was
relatively stable and well regulated, continuously moving towards intemational standards, and foreign
investments were substantial. (The following foreign banks operated in Kazakhstan: CitiBank, HSBC,
Bank of China, Demir Bank, and National Bank of Pakistan. Foreign investors, including EBRD, IFC and
others, have also invested in the banking sector.) Nevertheless, the level of broad money and bank credit in
proportion to GDP was still much lower than that in other emerging markets, indicating that the banking
sector is still at an early stage of development. Also, general confidence in the legal environment was
evidently still low, prompting banks to lend more shorter-term loans and require full collateralization.
The country has a two-tier banking system - the National Bank of Kazakhstan and 37 commercial
(second-tier) banks. As of November 1, 2002, total consolidated assets amounted to KZT 1,009 billion
(US$6.6 billion) and total lending to KZT 620 billion (US$4.05 billion), whereas total capital reached KZT
126.3 billion (US$0.83 billion). The seven PFIs were systematically important banks, which altogether
accounted for 68 percent of system wide banking assets, as indicated in the table below, and maintained
capital adequacy ratios between 9-30 percent, above the Basel minimum required ratio of 8 percent. All
PFIs met the Project eligibility criteria for credit line operation and complied with the provisions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Rural Credit Guidelines. (The PFI eligibility criteria were: valid banking
license, certificate of compliance issued by NBK, IAS standard accounting and financial statements, audit
by intemational auditor in accordance with ISA, adequate rural branch network, acceptable governance
body, expressed interest and experience in agricultural lending, acceptable internal control systems, and
willingness to participate in capacity building programs).
- 8 -



Assets         System       System         System
PFI              (As a % of     ranking by    ranldng by     ranking by
total banking     size of       size of      size of loan
sector)        assets        capital       portfolio
Kazkommertsbank              21.6%             1             1             1
Bank Turan Alem               18.8%           2              2             2
Halyk Bank                    15.5%            3             3             3
AlmatyMerchant Bank           5.2%            4              5             5
Bank CenterCredit             4.0%             5             8             4
Temirbank                     2.6%             8            10             7
Tsesnabank                    0.8%            17            22             15
Component Scale at Completion. At appraisal, the credit component cost was expected to be around
US$19.47 million and amounted to US$18.96 million at completion. The Bank financing of this
component remained unchanged at US$12.29 million, which was fully disbursed. While the appraisal
target of a total of 90 sub-loans was relatively low and therefore criticized by QAG, the actual number at
the time of the ICR preparation was higher at 119.
Portfolio. At closing, the key information of the portfolio was as follows:
*   Seven private commercial banks are actively participating.
*   Total outstanding loan portfolio amounted to US$13.19 million (net of repayment).
*   A total of 119 sub-loans was issued.
*   Investtnent loans accounted for 64 percent of the portfolio, while 36 percent was for working
capital.
*   The number of family farms receiving the sub-loans was 58.
*   The average sub-loan size for the entire portfolio was US$110,821.
*   The average interest rate was about 12.3 percent for US dollar denominated loans.
*   The average repayment term was 3 years, with the longest term being 4.8 years.
*   Repayment rate was over 98 percent.
PFI          r~~~~Nub of Number of  LonPrflo       Average Size  Average    Average
PFI                r ofe    Family Farm  Loan Potfolio  of sub4oans  InterestRate  Tenor
s%ub     beneficiaries  Amount (US$)  (USS)      (%)          (years)
Kazkommertsbank      6          0         2,161,100      360,183       12.6        4.8
Bank Turan Alem      19         10        2,220,152      116,850       13.5        2.3
Halyk Savings Bank   18         14         874,027       48,557        10.7        3.1
Kazakhstan
Temir Bank           19         7         2,088,372      109,914       12.9        3.0
Center Credit Bank   10         4          1,349,834     134,983       12.0        3.6
Almaty Merchant      22         12        1,965,479      89,340        12.3        2.1
Bank
Tsesna Bank          25         11         2,528,675     101,147       11.8        1.8
TOTAL               119         58        13,187,639     110,821       12.3        3.0
Types of activities supported. Loans were provided at commercial terms and at interest comparable to
prevailing market rates, across different rural business activities, including non-agricultural rural
entrepreneur businesses. Agricultural production in both crops and livestock received the largest
- 9-



portion of funds (55 percent and 14 percent respectively), followed by agro-processing (23 percent), and
other non-farming activities (8 percent).
KZ APPAP Division of Funds by the
Types of lnvestm ents
C attle and
other        breading
Processing    a X            14 %
2 3 %   H      1
Crop
production
55%
Increasing outreach, diversification of beneficiaries, and declining average loan size. The number of
sub-loans has been steadily increasing. Starting with the modest number of 5 in 1999, the number of
sub-loans made in 2002 significantly increased to 69, particularly after the MTR of June 2002. While the
total number of 58 family farms receiving the credit (for US$ 2.2 million) is below the appraisal target of
70 family farms, the trend is promising. Until 2001, an average of 5 family farms annually had access to
credit, which in 2002, jumped to 43. This healthy trend is continuing (see graph below).
KZ APPAP Lending to Fam ily Farm s
s 60
20  't8 :r                     fmT o tyl
N~~~~       ~n    ber of
4 0ans
2 0 ta0       -                  fomN
0~~~~~
CD           0N
During Year
The average sub-loan size steadily declined, particularly after the MTR was conducted. After the
maximum loans limit of sub-loans was raised in 2001, the average size jumped substantially from about
US$150,000 to US$214,000. However, through productive dialogue among the task team, PFIs and GOK
to extend credit to more borrowers, particularly to small-scale borrowers, the sub-loan size has been
significantly reduced to about US$74,000 in 2002, and the trend is likely to continue.
- 10-



KZ APPAP Average Loan Size and Number of Loans Disbursed
200 -"Ar16'7                                   60 .
150 '-.'           4     .~6 
ap 50                  U             i.0           20 E
1999      2000      2001      2002
During Year
Average loan size -   Nurnber of oans|
PFIs. All PFIs were assessed carefully against the agreed set of eligibility criteria before they were
allowed to participate. At closing seven private commercial banks were active. The same set of banks also
intermediate EBRD, IFC and other IFI sourced credit lines, and two of the banks have successfully floated
bonds. At completion, two additional banks have expressed interest in participating, but due to the limited
time before the loan closing, their participation will be considered under APL II. PFIs maintained full
autonomy in the selection of beneficiaries. Access to the credit line was on a 'first come first serve' basis
to encourage competition among PFIs. Lending decisions were commercially based on the borrowers'
demonstrated viability, sufficient collateral, and repayment capacity, all of which contributed to the good
quality of loan portfolio and high repayment rate.
Interest Rates and Maturity Period. The APPAP funds were on-lent to PFIs by the Ministry of Finance
in US dollars. PFIs signed subsidiary loan agreements which stipulate all terms and conditions. The
interest rates to PFIs were based on the formula LIBOR plus 50 basis points (The interest rate level was
reviewed and set by the government on a semi-annual basis), which remained positive in real terms
throughout implementation. GOK has stated upfront that APPAP credit funds would be provided to PFIs
at a rate relatively lower than those prevailing for commercial funds (about 1-2 percent lower than other
credits for industrial clients) to encourage private commercial banks to lend to small-scale, agricultural
clients. This is, in fact, equivalent to transaction cost support, which had an impact on triggering
commercial banks' lending to the sector. Whether such transaction support should be continued in the
subsequent Project needs to be carefully reviewed during the preparation. PFIs in turn on-lent the funds to
ultimate borrowers at rates ranging from 10.7 percent to 13.5 percent, which were significantly positive in
real terms and compatible to prevailing market rates. Although there were higher interest rates in the
market, they were not directly compatible to APPAP sub-loans. Still, the interest rate differences were
declining as the banking sector continued to mature (see Additional Annex 10 & 11 for interest rates data).
Funds were provided to PFIs "back-to-back" according to the maturity of sub-loans they make. The
average maturity period was relatively stable at 3 years, of which an average maturity period for working
capital loans was 1.2 years.
Simplification of Sub-loan Approval Procedures and TA for PFI Capacity Building. During
implementation, several changes were made to sub-loan approval procedures. Initially, PFIs' capacity for
loan appraisal was weak and therefore, the agreed prior review requirements had to be augmented while
hands-on TA for loan appraisal was provided. In addition, PFIs in general were still reluctant to lend to
farmers due to insufficient collateral, high "perceived" risks and relatively high administrative expenses
associated with making small loans. As a result, the disbursements were initially slow. By end 2000, only
22 percent of the credit line had been disbursed. To overcome these shortcomings, substantial training was
provided to strengthen PFI capacity in sub-loan analysis, including more emphasis on cash-flow based loan
- 1 1 -



risk assessment; loan approval procedures and document requirements were streamlined; a revolving
account was opened by MOF for handling the credit reflows from PFIs; and procurement procedures were
also simplified. GOC, on behalf of GOK, also developed a methodology for rating PFI performances and
followed up with more regular monitoring of PFIs. With these measures, the pace of disbursements was
significantly accelerated while maintaining a quality portfolio. Initially, average approval period was as
long as 7 months, which was reduced to less than 30 days.
C. The Institutional Development Component (Bank Financing at Appraisal: US$ 0.48 million; Bank
Financing at Completion: US$ 0.29 million) was to provide through TA and training support for the
implementation of bankruptcy proceedings, and development of an institutional and legalframework that
facilitates the use of a wide range of assets including land and moveable property as collateral.
Overall, the institutional development component objectives were largely met, but through the use of
altemative grant funds obtained by GOK except for the development of a Marketing Information System.
Nonetheless, the Project provided an important catalyst role in initiating the important institutional changes.
The Bank conducted a sector study (Economic Sector Work/ESW) in 1999 on results and assessment of:
(a) financial restructuring of former state and collective farms, including farn bankruptcy proceedings; (b)
the potential for insurance/guarantee schemes for crop financing; (c) constraints in marketing, processing
and input supply; and (d) role of Government in the provision of agricultural services. The study found
that the agricultural bankruptcy procedures appeared to be well understood and widely applied in general,
thereby having a profound impact on farm ownership, structure, and management. Thus, support in
bankruptcy proceedings was no longer relevant, and staff decided that the collateral issue needed to be
more emphasized.
Most cormmercial banks preferred to accept only property assets situated in large cities as collateral. The
use of farm land or equipment as collateral was still problematic because most ownership was only in the
form of long-term leases instead of outright ownership titles, liquidation by banks through mandatory
auctions limited recovery value, and the market for farm land was virtually non-existent. Thus, even if
commercial banks did accept farm land collateral, which was very unlikely, the valuation would be very
low. In attempt to address these issues, donor support was provided in the adoption of a Grain Law in
January 2002, which provides the legal basis for using grain receipts as collateral. In addition, a new land
code was enacted. Significant work is still needed to ensure wide application of these new laws, and other
possible options to address the collateral issue need to be explored further under APL II.
Marketing Information System (MIS). The component financed a MIS to provide market orientation
support for restructured farms and associated enterprises. The system was a part of efforts to consolidate
inforTnation from agricultural state and non-state agencies into a unified network and to maintain a flexible
and timely database on the updated status of the sector, trends and opportunities. Specifically, the
component supported: (a) the design of the system; (b) staffing and training requirements; and (c)
procurement of hardware equipment. At completion, the MIS hardware has been purchased and installed,
and efforts to develop the system further and promote wide usage by farmers were ongoing. A total of US$
315,747 was provided for these purposes, of which US$ 78,000 was co-financed by GOK to fund related
activities.
Leasing. In October 2001, the APPAP Loan Agreement was amended to provide leasing services.
However, there were still outstanding issues with the legal and regulatory framework and the supervision of
leasing companies, including a need to close existing legal loopholes surrounding leasing. The National
Bank of Kazakhstan is currently developing prudential norms for leasing operations. Thus, during the
Midterm Review of APPAP in June 2002, GOK and the Bank jointly concluded that the leasing will be
- 12-



initiated under APLII.
D.     The PIU Component (Bank Financing at Appraisal: US$ 0.43 million; Bank Financing at
Completion: US$ 0.37 million) was to provide technical assistance, training and equipment to assist in
the management of the Project under the Ministry of Agriculture.
APPAP was the first agricultural credit operation supported by the Bank in Kazakhstan. Initially, a
consolidated External Debt Department under the Ministry of Finance was managing day-to-day Project
implementation and management matters. Since then, GOK decided to eliminate project based PLUs for all
IFI projects and merge the project management functions with the relevant line ministry, in an attempt to
foster strengthened project ownership and control, and to limit the duplication of tasks within the same
sector. While this was a sound decision, establishing the Project management functions in the Ministry of
Agriculture took longer than expected and impeded implementation of the Project during the early phase.
In March 2000, MOA hired a group of local consultants (GOC) to take over the responsibilities for
coordinating Project implementation. In addition, different functions were distributed more clearly to
different departments across the Ministries of Agriculture and Finance. GOC was designated with a clear
set of responsibilities for coordinating Project implementation, monitoring and supervision through site
visits, and handling Project accounting and financing in collaboration with MOF. The Project provided
significant TA and training to build the GOC capacity in Project management, monitoring and evaluation,
and financial management. It also financed substantial Project-related equipment and operational costs.
Having such support and as well as designated staff enabled the expansion of the rural advisory and rural
finance components despite high staff tumover within MOA. The pace of APPAP implementation
accelerated significantly thereafter, particularly under the professional and dynamic leadership of the GOC
team in place at the time of the ICR (Since the appointment of the current GOC team in early 2001, Project
disbursements accelerated by more than 80 percent and the number of sub-loans increased by 94).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Because of the largely demand driven nature of the Project, it was not feasible to estimate a priori rates of
return for the Project at appraisal. Likewise, it was not attempted at closing. Instead the Project
emphasized strengthening the risk assessment capacity of loan officers and required PFIs to make only
those sub-loans that demonstrated sufficient rates of return. Due to very limited distortion in the economy,
there were no significant distortions between the economic and financial returns. Findings from a
beneficiary survey and field visits conducted at the time of ICR demonstrated that significant economic
benefits have resulted under the Project. The Project predominantly supported agricultural production
activities, followed by agricultural processing and non-farming business activities, and enabled the build up
of inputs necessary for commercial activities and encouraged necessary vertical integration. This was
particularly noted in the increased livestock, agricultural machinery, and fixed assets, which led to an
increased level of productivity and employment generation as confirmed by the results of the beneficiary
survey (see Annex 3). Moreover, as banks diversify their portfolio, the credit line also promotes some
non-traditional business entrepreneurship in rural areas (APPAP financed some new agricultural-related
activities, such as camel milk production, bakery, hotel and greenhouse).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
PIIs maintained their autonomy and applied purely commercial standards in their lending. The high
repayment of sub-loans, at a rate of over 98 percent, and the positive real term interest rates indicated that
the sub-projects were commercially viable and able to generate sufficient returns for timely repayments.
During field visits, it was also found that most farmers were able to improve their income and living
- 13-



standards, and some were even able to play an important role in building up the local community economic
and social activities. All of the Project beneficiaries visited expressed high level of satisfaction with the
availability of credit lines and rural advisory services, without which their access to commercial credit
would be unlikely and/or costly. Moreover, the Project had initiated the foundation for instituting a credit
culture in both commercial banks and borrowers. For more information on the beneficiary survey results,
refer to Annex 3.
4.5 Institutional.development impact:
The Project's institutional development impact was substantial. Through the provision of a credit line and
training, the capacity of conmmercial banks for appraisal and monitoring of rural lending was significantly
increased. The Project enabled banks to tap the new rural market through "learning-by-doing" and made
the banks less averse towards rural lending thereafter. Over a relatively short period of time, commercial
banks managed to build a sound rural loan portfolio and their interest in maintaining commercial business
relationships with the rural community continued. Whilst the disbursed APPAP credit line was relatively
small, PFI proportion of agricultural lending outside the Project was substantially increased as of ICR time.
Evidently, as their capacities strengthened, PFIs were lending to the agricultural sector using their own
alternative funds outside the Project. At the same time, PFIs were able to manage the associated risks and
maintained capital adequacy ratios above the Basel minimum requirement of 8 percent. Similarly, the
borrowers were given the opportunity to learn and strengthen accountability and responsibility in credit,
build business viability, and develop credit history for future borrowing needs.
The capacity of both the rural community and public administering institution was also significantly
expanded. The establishment of an independent rural advisory services network enabled the rural
community to identify and prioritize their own capacity building needs and to foster the commercial
exchange of professional business advisory services. The Project helped in delegating the MOA role to a
group of capable consultants in the day-to-day Project management, thereby enabling MOA to focus more
on substantive policy issues. The national consultants' skills in design, procurement and monitoring of rural
finance projects were significantly improved through the provision of TA, training, and equipment, thereby
enabling them to take on more responsibility in managing the subsequent phases. An agricultural market
knowledge sharing system that enabled an effective and efficient exchange of business information across
the rural community was also established under the Project.
5. Major Factors Affecting-Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Drought and poor harvest. Most farms in Kazakhstan underwent drought during years 1996-1999. The
most severe year was 1998, when almost all areas were exceptionally dry, and crop failures were widely
spread throughout the country. As a result, many farms became bankrupt or un-creditworthy, which has
impeded the already limited flow of credits to the sector.
Regional crisis. The 1998 Russian financial crisis had a major impact on the regional banking sector,
including in Kazakhstan. This exacerbated the commercial banks' hesitance in all lending, but particularly
in agricultural lending. Commercial banks' participation in the Project during the initial phase was thus
more limited and slower to evolve than originally expected.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
New Government initiative in agricultural restructuring. Since 1998, the Government adopted a new
- 14-



approach in agricultural bankruptcy proceedings, which profoundly affected the sector, leading to
substantial changes in farm ownership, control, and management. While this was welcomed progress,
during the transition period, it created substantial uncertainties and affected the initial performance of the
Project.
Delayed transfer of PIU. The delay in resolving the PIU issue had undermined the Project performance
during the first one and a half years. Since establishment, the new GOC tasked with day-to-day Project
management responsibility proved to be effective, but even GOC performance was hampered from time to
time by the lack of an operational budget.
Other Government rural finance programs. In 2001 the Government established an Agrarian Credit
Corporation, which received zero percent financing from the state budget and offered 5 percent on-lending
rates to farmer groups. In addition, the Government announced its plan to allocate a significant portion of
the 2003 state budget for rural finance prograrns. Because these initiatives are still at the inception stage,
the actual impact on the Project has been limited thus far, but these initiatives may conflict with the overall
development objectives of the Program and the ultimate long-term goal of developing a sustainable rural
finance system. This issue will need to be addressed during the preparation of the APL II.
Complicated credit approval mechanism. While PFIs were given full autonomy, administrative steps
undertaken by MOA and MOF during post-approval were very complicated, sometimes involving as many
as 25 steps. The pace of implementation picked up tremendously after the streamlining of the review
procedures, as described in section 4.2.B.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
PIU/GOC. To a large extent, achievements under APPAP were due to the effective managerial capability
of the GOC. As discussed in section 4.2.4, during the first half of the Project life, implementation was in
disarray due to an ineffective PIU. With the appointment of a strongly committed and active GOC, the pace
of Project implementation accelerated significantly.
PFIs. While agricultural lending was significantly increased and the perception of PFIs towards the sector
has been altered somewhat, by and large, rural finance has not been fully integrated into PFI overall
business strategies. Banks, in general, still tend to rely more on full collateralization rather than sound
business concepts and cash flows and still prefer to lend to large-scale borrowers. This, together with the
PFIs initially weak capacity in sub-loan analysis, contributed to the slow disbursements and larger
borrowers' dominance in the credit line. Nevertheless, with increased exposure to rural lending business,
capacity building in both PFIs and beneficiaries, and active supervision by the Bank and GOC, the trend at
the ICR time was promising.
5 4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost at completion is estimated to be very close to the appraisal estimates at around
US$23.36 million. Out of the US$15 million APPAP loan, US$ 12.29 million allocated for the Credit line
is expected to be fully disbursed by closing date. While the PPF utilization was only 12% of the planned
amount, the final component costs and financing for institutional development were increased more than
three folds from US$0.5 million at appraisal to US$1.67 million, mostly from donor and government's own
resources. Substitution of the loan funds with grants under the rural advisory and institutional development
components is expected to result in about US$ 800,000 unutilized funds, which the Borrower will request
to be cancelled.
- 15-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Given the positive trends that emerged particularly since the MTR, the Project's sustainability is likely.
Initial foundations for sustainable institutional, operational and legal framework are in place. On-lending
interest rates were positive in real terms, PFIs were able to generate profits from the credit line and
continued to increase lending to agriculture sector through their own resources. Most of the beneficiaries
visited during the ICR field mission expressed high sense of ownership and satisfaction with the Project and
some of them are likely to "graduate" into pure commercial credit relationship with banks, reinforcing the
high expectation for sustainability. A pool of private consulting firms with strengthened capacity had
emerged, and the rural community's awareness and demand for their services continued, indicating that the
foundations for a competitive rural consulting network has been established. The GOC, which played a
key role in the Project's achievements, was effectively carrying out its tasks of managing the Project
activities.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since APPAP was the first of a three phase APL and was intended largely as a learning experience,
transition arrangements into regular operations will involve preparation and implementation of the
subsequent phases. The second phase APL has already been listed as a FY04 operation. The Government
has submitted a written request reconfimning its intention to pursue the second phase APL and has also
earmarked budgetary resources to support the preparation activities, which will commence during the
second half of FY03. Discussions of the subsequent phase have already begun at the tirne of ICR.
A timely APL II could capitalize on the APPAP achievements to date. Based on the lessons learned in
APPAP, a number of measures will need to be taken to ensure long-term sustainability. For one, the APL II
would need to expand the outreach of rural finance services, particularly to smaller-sized rural enterprises.
It should also strengthen the legal and institutional framework for rural lending, addressing the issues of
leasing, collateral and insurance. And considering that the rural finance business has yet become the
mainstream business for commercial banks, the possible involvement of non-bank microfinance institutions
in the subsequent APLs should also be explored.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
As noted by QAG, the preparation of APPAP required substantial resources and time. Because of the
prolonged delay, a number of issues that prevailed during appraisal, such as the farm restructuring, became
less relevant during implementation. The change in Bank task management team during the early phase of
preparation may have also contributed to the prolongation of the preparation process. Nonetheless, the
Project identification and overall design were based on quality assessment of preliminary needs with
competent sector and social analysis.
7.2 Supervision:
Until mid-year 2000, there was frequent supervision by the Bank team consisting of various specialists.
Since then supervision has become less frequent with a smaller and less diverse team. In 2001, there was
- 16 -



only one supervision in May, at which time several important legal and operational amendments were
introduced to accelerate the pace of implementation (see Section 3.4). This unfortunately coincided with
Bank staff movements and resulted in a supervision gap during a critical period. This also led to delay in
the Mid-term Review (MTR), which took place in May 2002 and very close to the ICR mission held in
October 2002. Still, MTR was able to address various implementation issues, and since then significant
progress has been noted, particularly in terms of an increased number of loans, and a scaling down of the
average size of loans. Damage control was possible, due in part to effective field supervision by the Bank's
local office team, which filled the supervision gaps during the task manager changeover period.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government had expressed their commitment to developing the agricultural sector and actively
participated in the preparation of APPAP. With the assistance of international consultants, the
Government reviewed all the work carried out during preparation, provided considerable input in the
reviews, and liaised well with the consultants and Bank preparation missions. Considerable efforts were
also made to meet APPAP conditions for effectiveness.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
APPAP implementation was significantly hampered during most of 2000-2001, as the transfer of the
Project implementation functions to MOA was delayed. However, the performance was tremendously
improved with the appointment of GOC. Moreover, the PFIs were appropriately left with autonomy in
executing their lending activities, which contributed to the satisfactory overall performance of the sub-loan
portfolio.
7.6 Implementing Agency.
As discussed m sections 4.2 and throughout this report, the performance of GOC, PFIs and rural advisory
consultants in implementation was satisfactory.
7 7 Overall Borrower performance
The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
APPAP provides the following relevant lessons that should be taken into account for subsequent APL
phases and other rural finance operations in the future:
>      Ownership and effective management of the Project is critical for a successful outcome. The hiring
of GOC, consisting of qualified and dedicated consultants, proved to play a very important role in
accelerating the slow implementation and moving the Project towards achieving the development objectives.
Future operations should ensure that there will be qualified staffing and adequate funding support for
Project management and implementation.
>      PFI autonomy in the selection of sub-projects and beneficiaries led to the sound loan portfolio
- 17 -



quality, as only commercially driven criteria were used. Yet this also indirectly led to the high dominance
of large borrowers, who were often at an advantage over the smaller ones because of their ability to
present adequate collateral and economies of scale.
>      Addressing the gaps in lending to the smaller, underserved rural clients - including issues of
collateral, high administrative costs and high risks-- needs to be further emphasized in order to broaden the
scale of rural lending. A possible remedy, which will be explored in the second phase of APL, includes
support for microfinance through non-bank financial institutions.
>      To enhance credit operational sustainability, capacity building of PFIs - through informational
campaigns and specific TA and training -- should be more emphasized to lower the high risk, high costs
perception of rural lending. Areas that need to be improved further are risk management, asset and liability
management, intemal control, etc.
>      Multiple PFIs and flexible terms and conditions of on-lending credit fostered competition across
banks. Yet PFI participation should be expanded and the possibility for non-bank financial institution
participation should be explored in order to increase competition and broaden the rural business
community's access to commercial credit.
>      The supervisory and regulatory role of the National Bank of Kazakhstan was critical in ensuring
the sustainability of the Project and in reducing the Government burden in monitoring the PFIs under the
credit line.
>      The streamlining of procedures and requirements, without violating the rules, led to significant
improvement in the Project. For instance, having the World Bank prior review for all credit applications
created a long bottleneck in the Project initially. Moreover, applying the procurement requirements up to
the sub-loans level was excessive, making the use of the credit line unattractive to banks.
>      There needs to be a clear distinction between the institutions carrying out the non-public,
commercial and supervisory roles. A mixture of these roles created huge conflicting interests, leading to
the failure of the initial RACs.
P      The revision in the rural advisory component demonstrated that smaller scale consulting work,
rather than centralization of work under a public institution, resulted in much more effective needs
identification and greater participation by the rural business community.
D      While the private consultants were charging market level fees for their services to rural clients in
the preparation of business plans, the seminars and training were conducted free of charge. These capacity
building initiatives have proven to be effective in the dissemination of information and strengthening of
farmers' agricultural skills and have led to increased interest in comrnercial financing. A financing
mechanism for these activities needs to be determined for longer-term sustainability.
)>     There was a direct correlation between the pace of Project implementation and timely, hands-on
Bank supervision. Changes in Bank task management should be better anticipated so as to ensure
continuity of Project supervision, minimal transition gaps and continued delivery of high quality service to
the client. The irnplementation of the Project showed a direct correlation between the intensity of
supervision efforts by the Bank and progress in achieving Project objectives.
- 18-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following section was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
9.1. Overal Conclusion.
In general the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture agree with the assessment of Project
effectiveness presented in the ICR and express deep interest in continuing a fruitful cooperation with
the Bank in the implementation of the second stage of APPAP. The Ministry believes that all the
necessary prerequisites for implementation of the second APL are already in place, and that it is able to
strengthen the success achieved during the first stage and continue the work on strengthening the
agricultural crediting system stability, on the basis of the market principles, over the whole rural
territory of the Republic. On its part, the Ministry of Agriculture is willing to do everything possible in
order to speed up the preparation of APL II. Thus, the funds for grant co-financing of the second stage
preparation are already included in the budget for 2003.
9.2. Evaluation of Project Design and Development Targets
Some aspects of the Project's original design, approaches and procedures were changed due to drastic
economic changes that took place in the country. The Project coped with these changes and established
an energetic beginning of the participation of commercial banks and local consulting companies in the
agrarian sector. Analysis of the experience accrued during the Project was crucial for setting the
priorities of subsequent phases of the Adaptable Program Loans (APL) throughout the territory of
Kazakhstan.
The Project's design was based on the review of the agriculture sector's situation during the period
when fundamental changes were occurring in the country. The Ministry notes that the conceptual
content of the first stage of the Project was correct and passed the time test. However, during
implementation of the Project, significant changes happened in the economy of the country, which
could not help but influenced the APPAP. To the certain extent, it justifies the fact that the Bank and
the Ministry were not able to implement planned measures for introduction of crediting through the
system of warehouse receipts. Reform of the consulting component model should have been done
earlier, which would appropriately increase the effectiveness of the component and expending of the
loan funds. However, the Bank tended to appreciate the changes in the situation, and speeded up the
process of project implementation. One of the initiatives which was not planned in the initial design and
yielded positive result was the purchase of computers for IMS. Lately the Ministry successfully
continued the work on this project independently. Also, changes made to the Loan Agreement in order
to simplify procedures of the credit component, had large importance.
19



9.3. Achievement of Project Objectives
The Project turned out to be an energetic impulse in turning commercial banks to the agriculture and
raising banks' interest in funding of agricultural entrepreneurs. The number of subloans more than
tripled in 2002 compare to 1998 and seven commercial banks were actively participating.
The Project provided the only opportunity for a farmer to obtain a long-term credit, and it served its
purpose: 70% of the loan funds were allocated for investments, and an average term of credit was
about 3 years. Of all the subloans provided, almost a half was provided to farmers.
The credit line, especially at its final stage, made a tangible contribution in the development of a
market-based agricultural credit system. Even though the share of the loan in the banks' credit portfolio
is not large, the Project led to dynamic changes in composition of the banks' beneficiaries. At the initial
period, in 1998-2000, only relatively large or medium-size enterprises were able to obtain a credit. As
the rural sector was strengthening, banks' attitude towards agricultural enterprises changed and the
number of farmers obtained the access to credits was increased.
The Project demonstrated that agriculture borrowers can obtain credit and successfully repay. Total
rate of repayment for credit funds was equal to approximately 99%. Final interest rate for the
borrowers of the credit line tended to decrease from 16-18% in 1998-99 to an average of 12.2% by the
end of 2002. This decrease was consistent with the declining markets rates during this period, and in
part due to the development of agriculture as a viable sector and the competition among the banks as
they searched for prospective borrowers.
The Project made a direct and positive influence upon the increase of the economic stability and
profitability of its beneficiaries. Survey of the Project beneficiaries illustrated an increases of the
number of workplaces by 18%, crop yield by 10%, fleet of vehicles by 13%, livestock by 3.5 times,
production of processed goods in money terms - by 1.62 times. At the same time, 70% of the loan
funds was obtained by agricultural enterprises, 21 % - by processing enterprises, and 9% was allocated
for other types of activity associated with the rural area. This indicator is significantly higher than
average growth rates for the country's agricultural sector as a whole.
Commercial banks' institutional capabilities for work with borrowers, primarily with farmers, also
increased. TA support by international experts on training of loan officers yielded positive results in
terms of quality of credit applications, which resulted in significant reduction of approval period for
credit applications. Changes made lately to the approval procedures were a significant step in
decreasing the role of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance as monitoring bodies
during development of the credit line.
- 20 -



9.3.1. Credit Line Component
The project's main goals to support rural entrepreneurs by providing credit through local commercial
banks, and to strengthen capacity by training of credit officer were achieved. The implementation of the
credit line through local commercial banks as an agent, authorized by the Government (GOK), proved
to be viable and may be used during subsequent stages of the Project. Despite several problems,
outlined in the Concluding Report on the Project, which slowed down the pace of implementation, the
Government is pleased to note that by the time of project completion, the credit component was fully
disbursed. Besides, in addition to the component budget, another US$ 2 million were provided from a
special revolving account from the reflows.
9.3.2. Rural Advisory Component
The component tested two models to establish sustainable consulting infrastructure to provide quality
technical and financial assistance to farmers. Initially, in accordance with the design, consulting
network was established based on two Rural Advisory Centers (RACs) in pilot regions, fully funded
from the Republican budget. When the initial two years' work of Almaty RAC was proven to be
unsatisfactory, a different model to develop consulting network was introduced, which involved
existing local consulting companies and independent consultants into participation in the Project. This
new initiative established competitive environment and increases of commercial interest by private
consultants to provide services to rural entrepreneurs, primarily farmers. The consultants were selected
through open competition for the right to undertake information campaigns and training seminars for
farmers. The Government noted positive results of the new approach. The involvement of local
independent companies and consultants resulted in significant increase of the amount of funding on
farmers' projects, supported by quality business plans. The first competition between consulting
companies, which was held during fall of 2001, resulted in their energetic activities, initially in pilot
regions, on informing and providing consultations to farmers. In 2002 the second stage of work has
began, which will result in selection of 8 consulting companies for organization of farmers' training in
6 oblasts of the Republic.
The first model failed due not only to certain subjective reasons, but also to the conflict of interests,
built-in during the development of functions of consulting centers. Practical experience shows that the
model where a consulting body implements public, commercial and monitoring tasks at the same time,
being completely funded from the Project, results in conflict of interests and lost of stimulus to the
main task.
The new design of the rural advisory component allowed the establishment of a basis for consulting
agricultural network and increased the institutional capacities of local consultants. In total,
approximately 10 thousand people took part in 258 seminars and informational campaigns, 11
Kazakhstan consulting companies (out of 30 companies participating in the tender) as well as
independent consultants, specialists of local akimats m the area of agriculture were involved in the
work. A large amount of brochures, articles and manuals was published. The efficiency of consulting
support to local farmers was increased. In their own opinion, the local consulting companies, which
mainly did not work with farmers before, have obtained a necessary work experience and expressed
desire to work with the Project and the overall sector in the future.
9.3.3. Institutional Development
- 21 -



The Ministry, as an admninistrator, also gained a significant work experience with banks, consultants,
specialists of the local administrative bodies, in the area of concourse procedures. Technical tasks,
format of contracts and conditions for efficiency monitoring were developed by the Group of
Consultants and technical advisors of the Project, with the Bank's support.
9.4. Assessment of Project Effectiveness and Sustainabiity
The project's effectiveness is rated by the Ministry of Agriculture as rather satisfactory, taking into
account that this project was a pilot one and its implementation during the inception stage was delayed
due to some objective factors. These factors include: a few years of rather unfavorable weather
conditions for the sector, which resulted in mass bankruptcy of newly privatized farms; the banking
system of the Republic suffered through the impact of a financial crisis in Russia and the agrarian
sector turned out to be poorly serviced in the financial system; and the privatization processes in the
sector were not yet finished and slowed down the new farm owners' perception of the need for access to
investments.
9.5. Bank and Implementation Agency's Performance
9.5.1. World Bank Performance
In general the Ministry is satisfied with the Bank's supervision over the implementation of the APPAP.
At the initial stage of the project the Bank used to send evaluation missions every 3-6 months. At
certain period, related to the re-organization of PIU, supervision from the headquarters was less, but it
was supplemented by the supervision by a local World Bank staff in charge. Mission in May of 2001,
which approved several serious new initiatives, jointly developed by local project managers and the
Bank, was a breaking point, which allowed rapid increase in the pace of implementation. Between
May 2001 until March of 2002, when there was a transition of the Bank's team, supervision was
successfully provided by the local World Bank staff. The new World Bank project team also
demonstrated high activity and intention to solve all issues quickly. The dynamism achieved during the
last stage of the project implementation is apparent.
9.5.2. Implementation Agency's Performance
Initially, the protracted process of project management reform in the country and difficulties in
attracting highly skilled local consultants have negatively affected the project implementation.
However, in the last two years the Group of Consultants (GOC), hired by the Ministry on a contractual
basis, performed large amount of work and achieved the expected results. The Ministry is interested to
keep these highly professional consultants, and the only possible way to do so is to begin as soon as
possible work on the APL II.
9.6. Main Lessons Learned
Project design, including the credit component, should be developed taking into account significant
differences in agrarian sector development in Kazakhstan. To ensure that the Project would contribute
towards development of a sustainable rural crediting system, a balanced approach should be applied to
development of target criteria, as well as restrictive clauses. The World Bank's concem that the largest
part of subloans was provided to large borrowers who do not need preferential crediting, is based on
insufficient understanding of certain features of regional agricultural development.
- 22 -



- The problem of a collateral liquidity still remains the main obstacle in access to credit for
agricultural producers, especially for small ones. Financial leasing (buy-back lease agreement) would
be an effective solving of this problem. Including it into the second APL would strengthen the
institutional capacity of the credit line and the financial system of the republic as a whole.
* Only few farmers were able to obtain funds through the Project, and even for those who could do
so, it required certain organizational efforts made by the Project managers from the Ministry, as well as
the Bank. The Project should include special conditions to ensure access to credits by farmers. Such
conditions might include a special program of farmers' credit, which would decrease institutional
barriers, especially with regard to collateral, as well as development of a non-banking credit line for
micro-crediting of small farmers and personal subsidiary plots through non-banking institutions.
* Procedures for implementation of the credit component should be simplified and clarified. In
particular, the World Bank credit line procedures require large amount of intermediary steps, including
obligatory prior-review compared to programs of other international donors. However, during the
Project implementation, most of the obstacles was eliminated through joint efforts of all participants of
the Project.
Competition among participating banks is essential. In order to achieve this under the APL II, the
number of PFI should be increased, possibly through involvement of non-banking micro-crediting
institutions.
The first phase of the APL has established the foundation of a viable rural advisory services
infrastructure. The new design of the component should encompass extensive international experience
of development of a multi-layer consulting network, able to provide continuous support not only to
individual farmers, but also to the rural community as a whole.
The experience shows that implementation mvolving many ministries and agencies was
complicated. Lengthy reconciliation procedures could not be avoided, due to the absence of clear
understanding of the level of involvement of each ministry into the model. This was the main reason for
incomplete usage of loan funds issued for implementation of the component. The APL II should more
clearly determine authority and responsibilities of each participant.
Establishment of efficient consulting network requires continuous increase of institutional
capacities of local consultants, which implies an establishment of a full-time training program for the
consultants themselves. Dissemination of skills necessary for farmers in their day-to day activities is
possible also through the Information Marketing System (IMS), recently developed by the Ministry of
Agriculture. Possibly, the APPAP II will review the possibility of using the IMS for this purpose, and
suggest a list of measures to involve it in the development of the consulting network.
(b) Cofinanciers
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
1.A.Project Achievement of Development Objectives
Program Objectives
Results Summary                         Performance Indicators              Status
Program Development Objective
 Accelerated commercializathon  Corporate form of farns shifts from   By April 2002, the number
in newly pnvatized agricultural  production co-ops to individual private  of state-owned and
enterpnses in two key        farms, partnerships and joint stock    cooperative farms was
agricultural oblasts of       companies. Percentage of farms registered  decreased to half of that in
Kazakhstan - Astana and Almaty  as cooperatives reduced by 20 percent by  1997.
- leading to increased rural  program completion.
productivity and incomes
 Phase I - advisory and rural   Profitability increased in at least 70  Incremental increase in
infrastructure established and  percent of the rural enterprises assisted by  profitability has resulted
operational procedures tested  program                              from credits provided by
APPAP, but not monitored.
* Phase II - sustainable advisory  Yields per hectare increased by an average  Beneficiary surveys
and financial infrastructure fully  of 30 percent on farms assisted by  demonstrate that under the
operational in the two project  program.                            Project productivity of
oblasts.                                                            crop production was
increased by 10 percent
and number of livestock by
252 percent.
-24 -



1.B. Project Outcome/Impact Indicators
Indicator/Matrix                      Projected In last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
At least 1,000 contacts and referrals for  Project recorded more than 1,000 contacts  In total, 258 seminars and
the Advisory network                      and referrals                         information campaigns were held by
RACs and consultants, with more
than 10,000 participants.
At least 300 clients supported by advisory  71 loans already approved under the Project, The seminars held led to 1,570
centers or accredited network advisors.    based on business plans prepared with  credit consultations and
assistance of Project-supported advisory
services. Total number of business plans  assistance with preparation of
prepared is estmated to be 10 tmes more  140 business plans; 51
sub-projects were ultimately
financed by banks.
At least 15 network advisors in each oblast RACs abolished No Oblast Advisors   Same as that in last PSR.
certified to provide services by RACs.     Network established
At least 40 percent of cost of the advisory  Partially met. Business Plan preparabon  Same as that in last PSR
services is recovered through fees by end of services recover costs through fees, often
phase one.                                 subject to credit approval.
At least 70 loans to family farms and 20   Because of drought and poor harvests in 97,  artially met. A total of 119
loans to corporate farms, cooperatives, or  98 and 99, following privatizabon many farms sub-loans were made, of which
became bankrupt and were not creditworthy
partnerships                               There were almost no loans issued dunng  58 were for family farms.
these years. 71 loans were approved, but the
number of family farm loans was lower than
expected, only 27
Less than 10 percent of outstanding       Less than one percent of total outstanding  Same as that in last PSR
sub-loans classified as problem loans     loans considered problematic, involving two
sub-loans PFIs were in process of
liquidating collateral to recover principal
amounts
- 25 -



1.C.Triggers for APL II
Phase I Output Indicators: advisory and rural Infrastructure established and o )erational procedures tested
IndicatorlMatrix                  Projected In last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate
Institutional capacity of RACs and PIU  Two RACs established and abolished, Both the consulting service providers
evaluated as sufficient to expand the  local consulting fiums were used to network and GOC have sufficient capacity
Program                               provide advisory services.       to expand the Program.
PIU abolished, GOC created instead
and has sufficient capacity.
RACs performing satisfactorily in terms of Local consultant (informal) networks  Local consultants were able to charge
initial contracts, on-going client support,  were being established to carry out  market level fees for their services In
establishment of supporting consultant  functions onginally prescribed to  business plan preparation, based on
network, and ability to earn fees     RACs.                             success in obtaining bank financing
(Achievement at least 75 percent of
performance indicators)
At least 75 percent of credit component  This trigger will be met - 77 percent Credit component has been fully
committed for a balanced portfolio of small of the credit component is already committed until Project closing date.
family farms, larger corporate farms, and  committed; 7 PFIs are registered, and Family farms account for 58 out of
associated enterprises with at least 4 PFls 2 more are currently being registered the total 119 sub loans, or 49%. AlI
that are interested in participating in a  to participate.             PFIs met NBK prudential norms and
second phase and can demonstrate                                       had improved credit procedures,
sufficient capacity to handle an expanded  In regard to the "balanced" portfolio - thereby demonstrating sufficient
program of lending                   this will only be achieved partially, as capacity to handle an expanded
discussed above.                  lending program.
Less than 10 percent of total outstanding  Less than one percent of total  Same as that in last PSR. Repayment
balance of Project financed sub-loans  outstanding loans are considered  rate was at 98 percent. .
classified as non-performing; and     problematic, involving two sub-loans,
and PFIs are in the process of
liquidating collateral to recover the
principal amounts.
Bankruptcy procedures in use and laws on Has been met, but outside of the  Same as that in last PSR
registration of pledges of moveable   Project.
property enacted.
-26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-; .   'Appraisal :.  ActuallLatest  Percentage of
.stimatO   .  Estimate     - Appraisal
Component             :US$million            US$ miDlion               ;
Rural Advisory Services                              2.00           2.18            91
Credit                                              19.45          18.96            97
Institutional Development                            0.45           1.67           334
Project Implementation Unit                          0.44           0.45            95
Refinancing of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)  0.85         0.10             11
Total Baseline Cost                                 23.19          23.36
Physical Contingencies                              0.22
Price Contingencies                                 0.37
Total Project Costs             23.78          23.36
Total Financing Required             23.78          23.36
-27 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
._______ ._._-_._  :_Perce'ntage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate         - Actual/Latest Estimate   Ban   - Gv.
Bank      Govt.  ECoF.        Bank    '.Govt,     CoF.    Bank   Gov.      .
Rural Advisory Services /I  0.94   0.20      1.26      1.09      0.02     1.07    116.0   10.0   84.9
Credit /2               12.29      0.21      6.97     12.29      0.00     6.67    100.0   0.0    95.7
Institutional Development  0.48    0.01      0.01     0.29       0.08     1.30     60.4  800.0  13000.
/3                                                                                                0
Project Implementation   0.43      0.13     0.00      0.37       0.08     0.00     86.0   61.5   010
unit
Refinancing of PPF       0.85      0.00      0.00     0.10       0.00     0.00     11.8   0.0    0.0
1. The British Know How Fund was the main cofinancier for the Rural Advisory Component
2. The participating financial institutions and farn beneficiaries were the main cofmanciers under the
Credit Component
3. The EU-TACIS was the principal cofinancier for the Institutional Development Component
- 28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
At the time of appraisal, it was not feasible to set out a priori the sub-projects to be financed under
the credit line because of the Project's demand driven nature. Instead, a series of farm models were
developed in the Project Appraisal Document (Annex 4). Six models were developed, including a
large-scale wheat farm, a mixed crop farm, a small vegetable farm and three livestock farms. An overall
economic analysis was carried out by aggregating the farm and enterprise models, resulting in ERR ranging
from 37 percent to 100 percent. These models were not comparable with the actual sub-projects financed
under APPAP.
The APPAP credit line was commercially driven, thereby encouraging PFIs to lend only to
sub-projects with sound business concepts and sufficient rates of returns. All PFIs were able to build up
their rural lending portfolios through the increase of lending to new, first time borrowers, while maintaining
prudent operational standards. This was confirmed by the high repayment rate of sub-loans and the
overall sound financial performance of PFIs. With access to a credit line, the productivity of the rural
borrowers was substantially increased, thereby increasing their incomes and generating employment
opportunities. Rural borrowers were able to initiate business relationships with commercial banks, develop
credit history, and borrow again outside of APPAP.
A beneficiary survey was conducted in September 2002, as an alternative to fann models.
Questionnaires were distributed to the sub-borrowers, of which 88 sub-borrowers -- with total loans of
US$10.7 million -- replied. The survey confirmed that the APPAP funds led to substantial improvement in
productivity levels and employment generation, as demonstrated below. Most noteworthy was the increase
in number of livestock for breeding, husbandry, and processed dairy products.
Agricultural Post Privarization Assistance Project, Achievement of the
Phase I. Num ber of analysed projects 88.
The Level for com parison (before Project) - 1
Processing                            1.62
Agricultural                   1 .13
Equipm ent
Livestock                                                           3.52
Yield (toniha)                 1.10
Employment                    Ml 18
Generation
0      0.5      1      1.5      2      2.5       3     3 5       4
The survey demonstrated that the largest use of sub-loans was for investment activities, followed by a mix
of investment and working capital, and working capital. Agricultural production activities (including crops
and livestock) account for the largest portion of the outstanding sub-loans, at 69 percent, followed by
agricultural processing and non-farming activities.
- 29 -



Type of Credits
22%
t3 Investment                                           46/
o Working capital
0 Mixed
32%
Usage of Credit Lines
Agricultural 
production 
Processing       *23% 
Non-farming   .
0%          20%         40%          60%         80%
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Pr-oress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
September 1993              4    Agricultural Economist,
Agribusiness & Credit Specialist,
Agronomist, Land Tenure &
Privitization Specialist
September 1994              6    Agribusiness & Credit Specialist,
Extension Specialist, Project
Advisor, Agronomist, Land
Reform Specialist, Land
Registration Specialist
February 1995               7    Agribusiness & Credit Specialist,
Land Reform Specialist, Local
Economist, 4 Land Specialist
consultants
June 1995                   7    Agribusiness & Credit Specialist,
Land Reform Specialist, Local
Economist, 4 Land Specialist
consultants
July 1996                   4    Agricultal Economist, Local
Economist, Agriculturalist,
economist consultant
October 1996                2    Agriculturalist, economist
consultant
February 1997               7    Social Specialist, Local
Economist, project consultant, 4
Land Specialists
June 1997                   5    Agriculture Economist, Social
Specialist, Local Economist,
project consultant, Agriculturalist
September 1997              1    Agriculturalist
December 1997               7    Senior Economist, Economist,
Procurement Specialist, Senior
Social Scientist, Principal
Agricultural Economist and 2
Consultants
Appraisal/Negotiaffon
March 1998                  7    Senior Economist, 2
Economist, Senior Social
Scientist, Principal
Agricultural Economist and
2 Consultants
August 1998                 1    Principal Agricultural Economist
Septemer 1998               7    2 Senior Economists, Principal
(pre-effectiveness)              Agricultural Economist,
Economist, Senior Social
-31 -



Scientist, Procurement Specialist
and Consultant
Supervision
10/17/1998                 6  TEAM LEADER (1); BANKING         S            S
SPECIALIST (1); SECTOR
LEADER (1); SOCIAL
ASSESSMENT (1);
PROCUREMENT (1);
BANKING, FINANCE (1)
04/20/1999                 3   RURAL FINANCE (2); TEAM         S            S
LEADER (I)
04/20/1999                 5   TEAM LEADER (1); RURAL          S            S
FINANCE (1); BANKING (1);
PROJECT OFFICER (1); TEAM
ASSISTANT (1)
04/21/2000                 4   TEAM LEADER (1); RURAL          S            S
FINANCE (1); PROJECT
OFFICER (1); BANK (I)
07/15/2000                 2   TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT        S            S
OFFICER (1)
05/16/2001                 4   TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD           S            S
FINANCIAL ECONOMI (1);
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(1); PROJECT OFFICER (1)
10/11/2002                 4  TEAM LEADER (1);                 S            S
FINANCIAL SECTOR (I);
RURAL BANKING (1);
INSTITUTIONAL DVLP (1)
ICR
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             n/a                     521.9
AppraisalUNegotiation                  n/a
Supervision                            n/a                     518.1
ICR                                    n/a                      36 2
Total                                  n/a                    1076.2
Note: Differentiation between Identification/Preparation and Appraisal/Negotiation and staff week
informnation are no longer possible in SAP. The only differentiation available is between lending and
supervision.
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                       O H OSU*M O N O NA
FSector Policies                      O H OSU*M       O N O NA
2 Physical                            O H OSUOM       O N   O NA
F Financial                            O H  * SU O M  O N O NA
F Institutional Development           0 H   * SU O M  0 N   0 NA
DEnvironmental                        O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction             O H   OSU*M     O N O NA
I Gender                        O H   OSU*M     O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H   OSUOM     O N O NA
6 Private sector development          0 H * SU 0 M    0 N 0 NA
El Public sector management           0 H O SU O M    0 N 0 NA
M Other (Please specify)              O H   *SUOM     O N O NA
Outreach
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
CJ Lending                                         OHS*S        OLU    OHU
? Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
F Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
 Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU     O HU
F Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       O U    O HU
Z Overall                                          OHS OS O U O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Project Appraisal Document -Republic of Kazakhstan: Agricultural Post-Privatization Assistance
Project - Report No: 17789-KZ - May 08, 1998
2. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations between the World Bank and the Government of the Republic of
Kazakhstan
3. Loan Agreement - Republic of Kazakhstan: Agricultural Post-Privatization Assistance Project (Loan
number 4331-KZ) - June 23, 1998
4. Amendments to Loan Agreement - Republic of Kazakhstan: Agricultural Post-Privatization Assistance
Project (Loan number 4331 -KZ) - June 23, 1998
5. Rural Credit Guidelines - 1998
6. Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the MOF and the PFI
7. MOA Group of Consultants Quarterly Progress Reports
8. Mid-term Review Report
9. Technical Assistance to APPAP - Financial Expert's Final Report - October 2000
10. ABG Consultant Report "APPAP - Assessment Report" - August 2002
11. Audited Financial Statements for Agricultural Post-Privatization Assistance Project for Years Ending
1999, 2000, 2001
12. Audited Financial Statements for the Project PFIs for Years Ending 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001
13. Country Assistance Strategy - July 31, 1997 - Report No. 16989-KZ
14. Economic Sector Work "Kazakhstan - A Review of Farm Restructuring" - March 2000
15. Social Assessment of Privatization in Agriculture in Akmola and Former Taldy-Korgan Oblasts:
Report on the Results of the Household Survey - December 1997
16. Akmola Oblast Agricultural Department - Recommendations on Restructuring Privatized Agricultural
Enterpnses - 1997
17. Survey of the APPAP Beneficiaries, 2002
18. Environmental Assessment - 1998
19. APPAP Implementation Progress Monitoring Report, Astana , 2002
-35-



Additional Annex 8. Aggregate Information of PFI Portfolio
AMB       CCB     HSBK     KKB       TB       TsB       BTA
Date SLA signed               10/12/00  11/3/00  8/12/99  2/8/99  9/19/00  10/16/98   2/8/99
Total number of borrowers          22       10       18       6       19        25       19
Total APPAP loan amount          1,966   1,350      874    2,161   2,088      2,529    2,220
disbursed (in US$'000)
Average loan size(in US$'000)      89      135       49     360      110        101     117
Average interest rate (%)         12.3    12.0     10.7     12.6     12.9      11.8     13.5
Average maturity (years)           2.1     3.6      3.1      4.8      3.0       1.8      2.3
Number of family farms             12        4       14        0       7         11       10
Loans for investment purposes    40%      89%      75%      91%     81%        48%      75%
as a % of total disbursed
Non-performing loans as a %         0        0        0        0    3.7%          0    0.6%
of total disbursed
Source: MOA GOC Reports and PFIs
AMB               Almaty Merchant Bank
CCB               Center Credit Bank
HSBK              Halyk Savings Bank Kazakhstan
KKB               Kazkommertsbank
TB                Temir Bank
TsB               Tsesna Bank
BTA               Bank Turan Alem
- 36 -



Additional Annex 9. PFI Financial Standing and Portfolio Quality-A Brief Analysis
(KZTmallIons)                              KKB       BTA      HSBK       TB       CCB       AMB      TsB
Income Statement
Interest income                      16,364  20,611     11,283    2,062      3,500     3,753     777
Interest expense                     8,161   12,450      5,466      917      1,634     1,693     248
Net interest income                  8,203    8,161      5,817     1,145     1,866     2,060     529
Provision for losses                 2,671    8,495     2,588       773      1.026      687      148
Net interest after provision for losses  5,532  (334)    3,229      372        840     1,373     381
Non-interest income                  5,922    13,440     5,707     1,780     1,518     1,153     294
Non-interest expense                 6,646               7,648     1,877     1,895     1,495     444
Profit before taxation               4,808   13,106      1,288      275        463     1,031     231
Taxation                               403                188        80         -       249       26
=> Net profit                        4,405   13,106      1,100      195        463      782      205
Balance Sheet
Cash and due from NBK                9,767   10,950     10,672     1,255     2,186    3,864*    1,695
Due from credit institutions (net of
provisions)                         34,454   10,344     15,582    4,308      4,487       -        76
Dealing securities                   13,634  31,931     23,534     1,600     4,257       -       961
Loans to customers (net of provisions)  169,743  102,677  102,518  17,515   30,139    29,639    5,661
Securities & derivatives               257   28,904        -         -          88    12,451    -
Investments in associates            1,749      665       269        26        464       -      -
Other assets                        15,566   20,552     17,334     1,342     3,553     1,919     477
=> Total assets                    245,170  206,023    169,909   26,046     45,174   47,873     8,870
Owed to MOF and NBK                      -    2,861      3,003      382        729      982      281
Owed to credit institutions        50,853**  27,525     15,892    4,698      2,022     9,704     163
Owed to customers                   120,449  117,346   125,395    15,658    31,653    29,801    6,959
Securities sold for repurchase                8,437        -         -          -        -         -
Other liabilities                    15,982   6,936     13,090     1,364     6,041      503      460
Debt securities & subordinated debt  28,506  22,929        -       1,487       729     1,551       -
Minority interest                       86       -         -          -          -       28        -
Total liabilities                   165,023  186,034   157,380    23,589    41,174    42,569    7,863
Fully paid up share capital          3,500   17,034 -    7,673     1,400     2,934     3,100     531
Reserves                            25,794    2,955      4,856     1,057     1,066     2,231     476
Total shareholders' funds           29,294    19,989    12,529     2,457     4,000     5,331    1,007
=> Total liabilities and shareholders'
funds                               194,317  206,023   169,909    26,046     45,174   47,900    8,870
Analysis of loan portfolio
Loan provision
Loans to customers - gross          180,469   104,060  104,655    17,695     31,362   31,299    5,876
Loans to customers - provisions      10,726     6,472    2,137       643      1,223    1,660      215
Loans to customers - net of provisions  169,743  102,677  102,518  17,052    30,139   29,639    5,661
Loans to customers - provisions, %    5 9%      6 2%     2 0%      3 6%       3.9%     5 3%     3.7%
Analysis of loan by sector
Agriculture & food processing       37,997     32,858   27,032     4,244      1,275    2,075    1,431
Other                              142,472     71,202   77,623    13,451     30,087   27,566    4,445
- 37 -



Loans to customers - gross          180,469   104,060  104,655    17,695     31,362   29,641    5,876
Agriculture & food processing, %     21.1%     31.6%     25.8%    24.0%       4.1%     6.6%    24.4%
Analysis of profltability and efficiency
Return on equity employed, %         15.0%      8.6%      8.8%     7.9%      11.6%    14.7%    20.4%
Administrative efficiency, %          5.2%     11.8%      9.8%    15.0%       9.3%     7.0%     10.1%
Number of branches                      21       23        20        17         19        10       5
Number of sub-branches                  66        -       147         -         -         -        -
Number of staff                      2,400    3,300      8,250      900       1,200     700      220
Number of lending staff                340      197       302       140        198       118      28
Net profit per staff                    1.8      4.0       0.1       0.2        0.4      1.1      0.9
Net profit per lending staff           13.0    66.5        3.6       1.4       2.3       6.6      7.3
Interest income Interest expense        2.0       1.7      2.1       2.2        2.1      2.2      3.1
Interest income assets excl. other
assets                                7.1%     11.1%      7.4%     8.3%       8.4%     8.2%     9.3%
Interest expense: liabilities excl. other
liabilities                           5.5%      7.0%      3.8%     4.1%       4.7%     4.0%     3.3%
Source:          PFIs Financial Statements
Note:
KKB              Kazkormmertsbank
BTA              Bank Turan Alem
HSBK             Halyk Savings Bank Kazakhstan
TB               Temir Bank
CCB              Center Credit Bank
AMB              Almaty Merchant Bank
TsB              Tsesna Bank
* Includes all cash and its equivalents
** Includes the amounts due by MOF and NBK
- 38 -



Additional Annex 10. Comparison of Market Interest Rates, APPAP, 1998-2002, Currency:
USD
1998      1999      2000      2001       2002*
Average cost of funds from MOF to APPAP PFIs,
o%O                                 _-                          5.86      6.70       4.27       2 11
Average interbank borrowing rate, %, OECD
currencies (longest term)                             10.6     11.70     11.50       8.40       5.80
Average deposit rate in commercial banks, %,
OECD currencies (longest term)                         8 6      7.90       8.00      8.20       7.90
Average on-lending rate to clients under APPAP, %
11.86     10.70      12.56       12.00
Comparison of Market Interest Rates, APPAP, 1999-2002, Currency: USS
12 
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4- Average cost of funds from MOF to
- ~,,    -W- -Average interbank borrowing rate,
0  8        .~                                   .                           ,OECD curr encies (longest term)
Average deposit rate in commercial
6  ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~~                ~   ~banks, %, OECD currencies
(longest term)
4                                                        -3      K       - Average on-lending rate to clients
4     2        I                                                            under APPAP, %
1999            2000            2001           2002'
Year
- 39 -



Kazakhstan Agricultural Post-Privatization Assistance Project - On-lending Rates vs. Cost of Funds
1a
16  -                            - -   
14 -                      --f; -
12   -                                      >   IB-
-O~- -BTA
H5
2x                                                                                                   -X- :   . - - --  -  -T- -- ------ -- - - -  -  --- -
ccs
6                    .                        _                                  '      ,  .                    d.
4.
2  -
0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
1998               1999               4000               2001               2002
-40 -









500            600                     To  700ze                        800                           900
KAZAKHSTAN                                                           fR U S S I A N
AGRICULTURAL POST-PRIVATIZATION                   el  i       ,-    _> c-                  k       -   Nooosbirsk  FE D E R A T I O  N
ASSISTANCE PROJECT_ 
KOTANAJ           ~.
1, ,                                                         Il'_,.
~~ r  ~~~ ASTA NA         . -,
MOSTANAI               - -        .     A       *'  -rOSKE/ E \ 4'
WEST,                     %~~~~~~~--                    STN                          Y~o
i'< ,< MAGHYSAU ' rONkus | ia E             0t>Y                  'SK S -  -~  4--
>i   MoI,)  i !      K.- LR KYZYlORDA         ' !AkHAN(e  ST
|)ERBa  t     I 0   jKARAGHAN Y
Bel ~~~~~~~~~~~~Tretam
1 4-~990 level                \    ZHAMBYL                                      CHINA'
I    ~~~~~~ jraTor , T-* 14960 level  K2i)PDSOJTHj,~-*- 
MoTU                         N T                       To A- A* 7 '-              j    e                    ,     -- I
AZERThBAIJAN  ~            I                                             * N  i.-
Wori fSn  hooudnr 
OJi--.1                      (  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           / ~~~~~~40-
Totol    N  On Disbursed  Number ofTraining                                      J-
oUSD, millions)                osEerSeminars  Jm  sA*;                                                                   STAN
TURKMENISTAN 
PROJECT REGIONS                                         D ohnzo   '.k m
ROADS                     .~~~b4                                T                                                     *
-i--i-- RAILROADS      the Mop oevge UnW of Th. Dishanbe TAJI K I S T A N
Woild Bonk Th. hoodeo-,
 NATIONAL. CAPITAL       -ol.., doeno.-t-oe  mid                                                                 -   -
0 REGION CAP'ITALSthptoliW            o                                       J
Z          0   SELECTED CITIES  Group, on judg     e           ._ -                                                0 *  100  200  300  400 Kilometers , i
>                                                  kW. ssiu s  ofooyesootioy  _     *        *                     I    I    I   I    I
m        -  - * ~ REGION BOUNDARIES   or onfy -oorseeeot or                                                                                  "O
INTERNATIONAL BOkNDAIE                                   FG  ANITAN   70occep once  of  tor0MesU/
* - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES    h0trisrones                     AFGHANISTAN  700     .    .'            *    0       100     200 Miles  0
toL  __ _ _ _._      _   _ _  __         I     1                                     I    /    I                                       _ 









Report No.:        25346
Type:    ICR



