Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17789 KZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 8, 1998
Rural Development and Environment Sector Unit
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Turkmenistan Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 12/31/97)
Currency Unit = Tenge
75 Tenge = US$
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
APL       -  Adaptable Program Loan
CAS       -  Country Assistance Strategy
DO        -  Development Objective
EU-TACIS - European Union-Program of Technical Assistance to the Commonwealth of Independent
States
FY        -  Fiscal Year
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
IP        -  Implementation Progress
IS        -  International Shopping
KBF       -  British Know How Fund
M&E       -  Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA       -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF       -  Ministry of Finance
NBFI      -  Non-Bank Financial Institution
NCB       -  National Competitive Bidding
NBK       -  National Bank of Kazakhstan
PAD       -  Project Appraisal Document
PFI       -  Participating Financial Institutions
PIU       -  Project Implementation Unit
PPF       -  Project Preparation Facility
RACs      -  Rural Advisory Centers
SLA       -  Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SOE       -  Statement of Expenditures
TA        -  Technical Assistance
USAID    -  United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director: Kiyoshi Kodera, ECCO8
Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver, ECSRE
Team Leader: Roy Southworth



Page iii
Kazakhstan
Agricultural Post Privatization Assistance Project
CONTENTS
A: PROGRAM PURPOSE AND PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .................. 2
1. Program  purpose and program  phasing .........................................................................2
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators ....................................................................2
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT .......................................................                                                           3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ......................................3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .......................................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program  and strategic choices ..............................................................6
4. Program  description and performance triggers for subsequent loans ...........................................................7
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY .......................................................                                                 8
1. Project components .......................................................................8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................................................................9
3. Benefits and target population .......................................................................                          10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .......................................................................           11
D: PROJECT RATIONALE ..................                                                                                               13
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...............................................................       13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ..................................... 14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...............................................................             14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...............................................................                15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...............................................................                     16
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ..................................................                                                      16



Page iv
1. Economic ............16
2. Financial ............17
3. Technical.17
4. Institutional.18
5S. Social18
6. Environmental assessment .19
7. Participatory approach .19
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS .20
1. Sustainability.20
2. Critical Risks.21
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .                                                             21
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS .21
1. Effectiveness Conditions: .21
2. Other Conditions:.22
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION .22
l. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES .23
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Project Design Summary .24
Annex 2 - Project Description .28
Annex 3 - Estimated Project Costs .35
Annex 4 - Cost Benefit Analysis Summary .36
Annex 5 - Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .42
Annex 6 - Summary of Social Assessment .48
Annex 7 - D       escription of Project Areas .59
Annex 8 - Checklist for Evaluating Compliance with Triggers for Phase Two .65



Page v
Annex 9 - Letter of Sector Development Program ..................................................                                                     67
Annex 10 - Elibibility Criteria For Beneficiaries and Sub-Projects ..................................................                                71
Annex 11 - Project Processing Budget and Schedule ..................................................                                                 73
Annex 12 - Documents in the Project File .................................................                                                           75
Annex 13 - Statement of Loans and Credits .................................................                                                           76
Annex 14- Country at a Glance .................................................                                                                       77
Map IBRD 29505



Kazakhstan
Agricultural Post Privatization Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia
Kazakhstan Country Department
Date: January 23, 1998                                                  Task Team Leader: Roy Southworth
Country Director: Kiyoshi Kodera                        Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver
Project ID: PA 8503             Sector: Rural and Environment           Program Objective Category: Agriculture
Lending Instrument: APL                                                 Program of Targeted Intervention:            [ ]  Yes   .[x]  No
Program Financing Data
................  ............   ...................................................................................................................................... .............................................. ............. ............. .................................. 
APL                           Indicative Financing Plan                       Estimated Implementation Period             Borrower
(Bank FY)
IBRD                 Others            Total           Commitment             Closing Date
Date
US$ million       /i US$ million           US$ million
APL I        Loan           15.0         63           8.8        *     23.8         August31, 1998         January31, 2002    MOF
APL2    I  Loan           35.0         70          15.0        1     50.0           June30;201           January  15i 2005    MOF
APL 3   *Loan               35.0         58          25.0              60.0           Ju   302004          January  15,2008    MOE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....................................................................1........................1...............
Total    .                  85.0         64  1       48.8              133.8
............................................................................................   .......................  .......................;...............
Project Financing Data                              [x] Loan             [] Credit            []  Guarantee            [   Other [Specifyl
Amount (US$m): 15.0
Proposed terms:                                        []    Multicurrency             [x]   Single currency,              US Dollar
Grace period (years): 5                      []    Standard Variable         [    Fixed                  [x]      LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                                          Local                     Foreign                  Total
Government                                                                       0.55                       0.00                    0.55
The British Know How Fund                                                        0.39                       0.64                    1.03
IBRD                                                                             9.68                       5.32                   15.00
Participating Financial Institutions                                             2.17                       0.93                    3.09
Benefiting Farms and Agro-businesses                                             1.94                       0.82                    2.77
Rural Advisory Centers                                                           0.04                       0.00                    0.04
EU                                                                               0.32                       0.99                    1.30
Total            15.09                      8.69                   23.78
Borrower: The Republic of Kazakhstan
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                                                    1999        2000        2001      2002
Annual                                        1.4         5.20        6.0      2.40
Cumulative                                        1.40         6.60       12.60    15.00
Project Completion Period: 36 months, from August 31, 1998
Expected Effectiveness Date: August 31, 1998
Expected Closing Date: January 31, 2002



Page 2
A:    Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1.    Program purpose and program phasing.
The Agricultural Post Privatization Assistance Program seeks to support the development of newly
privatized farms and agro-enterprises in key agricultural areas of Kazakhstan and improve rural
productivity and incomes. The changes required at the enterprise level to increase productivity and
achieve and sustain commercial viability may involve splitting-up existing enterprises, changes in
ownership, management, corporate status, and accounting practices, new investment, and changes in
product mix, input usage and production practices. The program will focus initially on Almaty and
Akmola Oblasts and will then be expanded to other oblasts in subsequent phases. It will be implemented
over approximately ten years. The program will assist farms and associated enterprises to restructure
and improve productivity by: (i) supporting the establishment of rural advisory and information services;
(ii) furthering the development of a sound legal and institutional framework for secured lending and the
protection of creditor rights; and (iii) facilitating commercial bank lending for working capital and
medium-term financing for restructured farms and other rural enterprises.
The program will include at least three phases. The first phase, which is described in this PAD, will
cover approximately three years and will focus on the legal framework, the institutions, and the
procedures to support improved perforrnance of rural enterprises and stimulate the flow of commercial
bank financing to enterprises which have restructured and are commercially viable. The second phase
which also will be implemented over a three year period will build on the first phase by expanding the
coverage of the advisory services, including additional oblasts in the program, increasing the amount of
financing for rural enterprises, and supporting measures as required to address social concerns arising
from restructuring and asset divestiture as farms become increasingly commercialized. The third phase,
which would last three to four years will expand the program on a nation-wide basis. Credit in the third
phase would be provided from loan proceeds but would also be increasingly available from the banking
sector's own resources. Advisory services would also be strategically placed to provide assistance to
rural enterprises and support further development of private providers of advisory and management
services. Other donor initiatives to support rural lending and advisory services would play an important
role in the national program. Proposed Bank lending for Government agricultural services including
research and training and strengthening of rral financial services would also support the program's
objectives.
Key performance indicators of progress towards program  objectives will be monitored through a
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system that seeks to measure: (i) the number of farms and associated
rural enterprises utilizing rural advisory services; (ii) the adoption of new management practices, changes
in technology, and increases in yields and incomes; (iii) the successful introduction of commercial bank
financing for farms; and, (iv) demonstrated financial viability of sub-projects and sound portfolio quality
of participating financial institutions (PFI's).
2.    Project development objective and key performance indicators(see Annex 1):
The development objective of the first phase project of the Agricultural Post Privatization
Assistance Program is to lay the groundwork for accelerating commercialization of rural
enterprises by establishing advisory services,  creating the legal and institutional
environment conducive to rural lending, and providing the means for commercial banks to
increase lending to farms and associated enterprises. The approach is to develop and refine
procedures and demonstrate the benefits which can be expected from successful
restructuring efforts for rural enterprises in two key agricultural oblasts - Akmola and
Almaty. These oblasts were selected on the basis of their agricultural potential, the contrast
in their farming systems, the positive commitment of the local administrations, and the



Page 3
potential for coordination with other donors and Bank projects (e.g. the Land and Real
Estate Registration Pilot Project).
Key Project performance indicators for the first phase include:
*   at least 300 farms and associated rural enterprises utilize project-supported advisory
services in the first phase project period;
*   at least 70 family farms and 20 corporate farms which can demonstrate commercial viability
receive credit through participating banks;
* less then 10 percent of outstanding sub-loans under the project classified as problem loans;
*   improvement in yields, and increased profitability on farms receiving advice and credit; and
*   bankruptcy legislation for agricultural enterprises and law on registration of moveable
property are in force and routinely utilized.
B:    Strategic Context
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
The joint IBRD/IFC Kazakhstan Country Assistance Strategy (Number 16989 KZ ) was discussed by the
Board of Directors on August 26, 1997. The fundamental objectives of the CAS center on maintaining
macro-economic stability, completing the transition to a market economy, strengthening social services,
mitigating the impact of transition, and transforming the role of Government. The program will
contribute directly to these objectives by: (i) assisting newly privatized farms to become commercially
viable and increase productivity and incomes; (ii) developing mechanisms for delivery of information,
advice, and training to rural enterprises; and, (iii) strengthening the institutional and legal framework for
private agriculture.
2.    Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government attaches high priority to the reform of agriculture which accounts for 25 percent of the
labor force, 12 percent of GDP and significant exports revenues. The goal of the reform program is to
develop a market-oriented and diverse agricultural sector, consisting of both family farms and larger,
commercial and mechanized farms, serviced by competitive input and output markets. The Government
has made significant progress in its reform efforts. Most farms and agri-businesses have been privatized
and a land code and real estate registration law have been enacted. Trade, price and marketing controls
have been substantially removed, and most subsidies and directed credits have been eliminated.
As a result of Government reforms, the farming community in Kazakhstan has undergone dramatic
changes since 1991 when the sector consisted of about 2500 state and collective farms. Nearly all the
farms have now been privatized with land shares and property entitlements distributed to farm members.
These assets have been used to establish a number of different farm structures including family farms,
joint-stock companies, production cooperatives, and various forms of partnerships. By June 1997, the
number of farms expanded to about 68,000 private entities. Of these about 59,000 farms are classified as
family-owned. The remaining 9,000 farms are organized either as partnerships, joint stock companies, or
production co-operatives. The pace of change quickened in the last year, with nearly 15,000 new family
farns and 1600 hundred new partnerships, joint stock companies and production co-operatives formed in
1997. The process is resulting in the increasing break-up of the former state farm system, though farm



Page 4
sizes remain very large in the Northern grain producing areas. Among larger farms, production
cooperatives and partnerships predominate, with about 4,200 each. Joint stock companies number only
about 500 in total. In the target oblasts family farms total about 14,000 and partnerships, joint stock
companies and cooperatives number about 900.
Despite the substantial progress with reform, key issues remain that undermine performance in the sector.
These issues and the Government strategy to address them include:
*   Poor Results from Farm Privatization: The changes in farm structure often have taken
place in the absence of information to farm members about their options and rights as
shareholders. Farm managers often have an advantaged position in the process, which gives
them special access to land and enables them to control the flow of information to farm
members thereby limiting their options and rendering them vulnerable to manipulation. This
lack of transparency has led to instances where farm members have transferred their land
shares to existing managers in an atmosphere characterized by mis-information and out-right
coercion. Moreover, the changes in ownership structure to date have not yielded increases
in farm productivity or improved profitability on many farms. The process has yet to
produce farms that are commercially viable, well-managed and creditworthy. Meanwhile
the capital stock of most farms has deteriorated greatly, further eroding productivity and
increasing the need for new investment. The poor response to initial privatization initiatives
is due to the lack of information and legal uncertainty associated with early privatization
efforts, and the slow emergence of rural input, output and financial markets. The
Government is addressing the situation through efforts to: (i) improve the information
available to shareholders about their rights and the options available for them to utilize their
shares effectively; (ii) develop advisory services to provide farms with information, advice
and training in commercial, managerial and technical aspects of farming as well as on
measures to mitigate the social consequences of restructuring; and (iii) improve input, output
and rural financial markets.
*   Social Implications of Farm Restructuring: Two social implications arise from the
process of farm restructuring: i) a potential reduction in farm employment and increased
rural income inequality as newly privatized farms shed labor in an effort to improve
productivity and ii) impact of divestiture of social services e.g. schools and clinics by farm
enterprises. The Government is increasingly concerned about the issue of rural
unemployment and poverty and is developing rural micro-credit schemes with assistance
from other donors to support alternative income generating activities in rural communities.
On the divestiture of social assets, the Government has passed a resolution that these
services should be taken over by local authorities. This process is constrained by a lack of
budgetary resources and administrative capacity at the local level. Donor assisted efforts to
address capacity are underway along with initiatives to assist in financing the recurrent costs
of the services on an interim basis until alternative sources of financing emerge.
*   Underdeveloped Rural Finance System: The Government is aggressively pursuing financial
sector reform. Its vision is a competitive rural financial system serviced largely by
commercial banks and rural credit cooperatives.  Currently, farns and agri-business
enterprises have difficulty in securing commercial credit to meet their needs for working
capital for raw materials and inputs, and for medium term finance for equipment, livestock,
and farm buildings. While an increasing number of commercial banks are now expressing
interest in developing agricultural portfolios, actual lending to the sector is still very limited.
This lack of response is due to the high risks and costs associated with agricultural lending



Page 5
and lack of commercial bank experience in analyzing and managing these risks. Most of the
limited lending to farms has been directed to farm enterprises which have already
established a record of profitability or which have an existing relationship with the banks. To
stimulate lending to new private farms, the Government is using a three-pronged approach
that includes: (i) development of a legal and institutional framework conducive to increased
commercial lending, including legislation on bankruptcy of agricultural enterprises, and laws
supporting secured lending; (ii) donor-funded training for commercial banks to strengthen
their capacity to identify, appraise and supervise lending to the farming sector; and, (iii)
donor-assisted efforts to increase the availability of funds for rural lending, including micro-
credit schemes. While these initiatives are being developed the Government has introduced
temporary measures to provide rural financing from budgetary resources. These measures,
outlined in a resolution issued in December 1997, provide for financing to be made available
through commercial banks. The Government has designed the program initially to provide
its resources to the Banks at no cost so that the final interest rate to rural borrowers is
subsidized, though positive in real terms. The Government recognizes the longer-term
negative impact of such policies and intends it only as an interim measure until its program
of agricultural post privatization assistance is under implementation. To this end, the
Government will: (i) complete the existing initiatives to subsidize credits by the end of the
Government's 1998 fiscal year; (ii) not allow resources from this initiative to be rolled over
at the same terms and conditions; (iii) exempt Akmola and Almaty oblasts from any new
Government programs for 1999 which includes subsidized interest rates for agricultural
lending; and, (iv) by January 1, 2000 terminate all subsidies for agricultural credit from its
budgetary resoruces, except as otherwise discussed and agreed with the Bank prior thereto.
Inadequate Input Supply and Output Marketing Channels: The market, price and trade
reforms implemented by the Government to date provide a solid basis for the development
of a fully functioning agricultural marketing system. Prices for exports of grain from
Kazakhstan are in line with world market prices. But, in some instances locally imposed
trade restrictions, poor price information, and the lack of competition in both output and
credit markets put farmers at a bargaining disadvantage. Moreover, the predominance of
barter transactions and in-kind wage payments decreases market  transparency and
efficiency. The Government recognizes the need for further measures to assure that fully
competitive market channels develop including: (i) steps to stop local Government
restrictions on trade in agricultural markets; (ii) development, with donor support, of market
information systems; and (iii) creation of commodity exchanges, standard contract formats,
and trading rules to assure transparency in the price setting process.
* Unclear Role of Government in Agriculture: Although the Government has withdrawn
from direct involvement in agricultural production and marketing it has been slow to adapt
to its new role of creating and managing the regulatory framework and the provision of
public services. The Government is not operating extension services, its agricultural research
programs are in disarray, under funded, and not sustainable, and its plant protection, animal
health, and land management programs are weak or non-existent. The Government is
beginning to tackle these problems with donor assistance. EU-TACIS has recently
completed a limited extension project in Akmola which will be followed up in FY 98 with a
new  program  covering additional oblasts.   The UK  Know-How-Fund (KHF) is
implementing a small project to provide information and advice to the milling industry in
Akmola. The Bank is also planning an Agricultural Services Project to support re-
orientation of the Government's role in agricultural services for FY 00.



Page 6
* Weak Institutional and Legal Framework: Weaknesses in the current legal and institutional
framework reduce the pressures for farm-level change. Critically, bankruptcy legislation
applicable to agricultural enterprises and the framework for secured lending in the sector are
still at a developmental stage, undermining the ability of creditors to pursue their claims.
Bankruptcy regulations covering agricultural enterprises were issued in December 1997 but
practical application of the regulations have not yet begun. Legislation allowing mortgaging
of land is in place and some lenders are beginning to take land as security, though the
practice is not yet well established. Currently no practical mechanisms exist for farms to
pledge their crops as collateral nor is there a system of warehouse receipts that can be used
as collateral. Creditors also lack the capacity to evaluate the potential for viable restructuring
in debtor enterprises and practical procedures for creditor-led restructuring have not been
developed. As a result, inefficient farms continue functioning for long periods without
facing the threat of bankruptcy or outside pressures from their creditors to change. The
Government is seeking to strengthen the legal environment through a number of donor
assisted projects, including the proposed Bank-finance Legal Reform Project, which will
provide training for judges and legal practitioners.
3.     Sector issues to be addressed by the program and strategic choices:
The program supported by this loan focuses on the issues of poor productivity on newly emerging private
farms, and on the slow development of a financial system to serve the needs of the farming community.
The program will provide support and advice to emerging farms through rural advisory services, and
through credit for farms that have successfully restructured.  It will also improve the legal and
institutional framework to facilitate rural financial intermediation, and to support restructuring of farms at
the initiative of creditors.
In shaping the strategy underlying the program the Government has made a number of choices.
c Rather then a piece-meal approach, the strategy focuses on the delivery of an integrated
package of services aimed at improving farm productivity including information, advice,
finance, and development of the institutional and legal framework to support change;
*   Rather than relying solely on farms to seek out advice and support for restructuring on their
own, the Government is also emphasizing the development of creditor-led restructuring
processes. Experience with large farm restructuring programs has demonstrated that
progressive farmers will use the advisory services to support the restructuring of their
enterprises. However, alternatives are required where farm management is inefficient or
reluctant to restructure. The program, therefore, seeks to strengthen the institutions and
legislative framework to facilitate creditor-led restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings.
*   Instead of  relying on public entities to provide restructuring advisory services, the
Government intends to use private sector approaches where possible. There is a need for a
short-term role for the government in the project to support the initial establishment of farm
advisory services. But, the advisory services will provide training and support to local and
private service providers (management consultants, law firms, technical specialists, and
accountants) so that the functions of the farm advisory services can be transferred fully to
the private sector at the end of the program.



Page 7
4.    Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans (See Annex 8):
The Government has devoted considerable energy to the privatization of the rural sector and to creating
the policy, legal and institutional framework for the development of dynamic and efficient private farms
and associated rural enterprises. The Government is concerned that the efforts to date have yielded little
in the way of improved farm performance. It is committed to the implementation of a program aimed at
removing remaining constraints to improved productivity and incomes. The focus of the program is on
measures to improve the performance of the rural sector including: (i) maintaininga policy framework
conducive to the rapid development of a rural market economy; (ii) improving the flow of information,
advice and training to newly emerging farms, and associated enterprises; (iii) supporting the development
of rural financial markets and improving the access of private rural enterprises to commercial financial
services; and (iv) introducing a second generation of legal and institutional reforms to improve the rural
financial system and strengthen bankruptcy procedures.
The first phase of the program focuses on setting-up the advisory services, strengthening the institutional
and legal framework to support improved commercialization of rural enterprises and developing
practical procedures for restructuring of existing farm enterprises. It will also introduce commercial
banks to restructured enterprises and establish procedures for commercial lending to newly emerging and
viable farms and associated enterprises. The second phase will build on lessons learned in the first phase
and will intensify the program in the two oblasts and expand program activities in other key agricultural
oblasts. Expansion of program activities under the second phase of the project would be subject to an
appraisal process aimed at examining in detail the experience gained from the first phase and identifying
suitable arena for programs expansioii. The learning process from the first phase will guide the timing
and design for the second phase. Triggers for moving to the second phase will include (see also annex 8):
-   Institutional capacity of Rural Advisory Centers and PIU evaluated as sufficient to expand
program;
-   Rural Advisory Centers performing satisfactorily in terms of initial client contacts, on-going
client support, establishment of supporting consultant network, and ability to earn fees
(achieve at least 75 percent of performance indicators);
* At least 75 percent of credit component committed for a balanced portfolio of small family
farms, larger corporate farms, and associated enterprises with an adequate number of PFI's
(at least four) that are interested in participating in a second phase and demonstrate sufficient
capacity to handle an expanded program of lending;
* Less then 10 percent of total outstanding balance of project-financed sub-loans classified as
non-performing; and
* Bankruptcy procedures in use and laws on the registration of pledges on moveable property
enacted.
Similar indicators for moving to the third phase and expanding the program nationally will be developed
on the basis of experience with implementation of the first two phases. The indicators will include,
among others, continued satisfactory performance of the credit component and further development of
advisory services.



Page 8
C:    Project Description Summary
1.    Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
A.    Rural Advisory Centers (RACs): This component will provide technical assistance (TA) and
training to: (i) strengthen information for farm shareholders on shareholder rights and opportunities for
utilizing those shares; (ii) build local business support infrastructure to deliver advice and training on
technical and commercial practices and accounting and management systems to farms and associated
rural enterprises; and, (iii) increase local capacity for the provision of advice relating to the resolution of
social issues arising from the restructuring process. It will support the establishment of Rural Advisory
Centers in Almaty and Akmola Oblasts. The British Know-How-Fund will provide cofinancing to
establish the advisory services in Akmola, while the Bank loan will finance the services in Almaty.
The centers will provide direct assistance to farms and associated enterprises to make the necessary
changes in ownership structure, management, commercial and technical practices to improve productivity
and achieve sustainability and financial viability. The centers will work with a wide-range of enterprises
including private family farms, corporate farms that have been established on the basis of old state and
collective farms, and other rural enterprises including input suppliers, processors, merchants, and
providers of community services. The centers will also identify, train and accredit a network of local
consultants to provide managerial, commercial and technical advice to rural enterprises. Members of the
network will include both individuals and institutions e.g., consulting companies, individual consultants,
lawyers, technical specialists such as agronomists from former state farms, research institutes and
accountants. The network will provide specialist inputs to rural enterprises required during the
development and implementation of restructuring plans (technical, legal, accounting). Members of the
network will be expected to earn fees for their work on restructured farms, though some funds from the
project will be available for an initial period to help cover the costs of work provided by network
participants to farms.
B.     Credit Component. The credit component will provide financing through participating financial
institutions (PFI's) to private farms and associated agri-businesses that have successfully completed
restructuring, and have business plans with financing proposals that have adequate financial rates of
return and demonstrate repayment capacity. Moreover, farms applying for credit under the project will
have to meet strict eligibility requirement related to their ownership, share holding, and management
(eligibility criteria are described in Annex 10). Lending limits to any one sub-borrowerwill be applied
and a system of prior review will be established to assure that eligibility criteria are being enforced (see
annex 2 for a description of the lending and prior review limits). The component includes:
(a) Credit Lines to PFIs: The Credit Component will provide a line of credit to qualified PFIs
for the financing of eligible sub-projects. The credit line will be on-lent at prevailing market interest
rates and terms with PFIs maintaining full autonomy in selection of borrowing agro-enterprises,
approval of sub-projects, and determination of lending terms. Anticipated sub-projects will include,
among others:
*   on-farm investment for development of agricultural production, including the provision of
seasonal credit or initial working capital as appropriate; and
*   investment (including working-capital) for development of processing, storage, packaging
input distribution, output, marketing, and other related rural services.
(b) Strengthening of PFIs: EU-TACIS is providing co-financing of ECU 1.2 million for technical



Page 9
assistance and training to qualified PFI's. The major objective of the TACIS support is to improve the
institutional capacity in the existing banking sector to assess commercial opportunities in the agricultural
sector, appraise loan applications and supporting business plans, and supervise outstanding loans. In
addition, the Bank project will assure appropriate prudential regulations and sound portfolio quality of
Project-supported sub-projects, initially through prior-reviews by the Bank, and continued regular
supervision by the National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK) and the Bank.
C.    Institutional Development Component: This component will provide technical assistance and
training to help develop a framework for a sustainable rural financial system capable of meeting the
sector's demand for credit. The component will facilitate: (i) secured lending by developing procedures
for using moveable property as collateral for bank lending; and (ii) creditor- led restructuring through
capacity building in the PFI's on procedures for debt work-out, bankruptcy and liquidation. The project
would support the implementation of the recently passed bankruptcy regulations for agricultural
enterprises. It would also provide support for the implementation of legislation currently being
considered by Parliament concerning the registration of pledges on moveable property and the
development of a system of bonded warehouses and the use of warehouse receipts as collateral. Passage
by Parliament of the proposed law on Registration of Pledges on moveable property satisfactory to the
Bank will be a condition of loan effectiveness. Training to be provided under the project will be
coordinated with the training activities of the proposed Bank-financed Legal Reform Project.
D.    Project Implementation Unit (PIP): This component will provide technical assistance, training
and equipment to assist in the establishment of a PIU. The unit will be established in the Ministry of
Agriculture to coordinate program activities.
E.    Project Preparation Facility (PPF): The PPF is providing technical assistance, training and
equipment to help establish the PIU and the advisory centers, train staff, and develop procedures. The
PPF is also funding a diagnostic study of potential PFI's and an assessment of the social issues associated
with restructuring.
Component             Category     Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-     % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)             (US$M)  financing
The Rural Advisory Services    Capacity        2.40        10.1    0.94       6.3
Building/TA
equipment
Credit                         Credit          19.47      81.9    12.29       81.9
Institutional Development      Capacity         0.50       2.1     0.48       3.2
building/TA
Project Implementation Unit    Capacity         0.56       2.4     0.43       2.9
building/TA
equipment
Refinancing of the PPF                          0.85       3.6     0.85       5.7
Total                              23.78      100      15.0      100.0
2.    Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Government has already implemented far-reaching policy reforms in the agricultural sector,
removing most distortions in pricing, marketing and trade and implementing privatization programs for



Page 10
farms and agri-businesses. The project will build on the progress already made to assist farns to adjust to
the new market-oriented enviromnent. The project will support the following institutional changes:
Institutional reform to establish bankruptcy and liquidation processes: Effective bankruptcy and
liquidation processes are essential to (i) create an incentive franework for restructuring; (ii) promote the
flow of credit to rural areas by demonstrating the existence of effective mechanisms to protect creditors;
and, (iii) reallocate resources to individuals and enterprises that will use them more efficiently. The
project will support institutional reforms through:
*   building capacity in commercial banks to evaluate the potential for viable restructuring in
debtor enterprises and to formulate debt work-out plans. Where viable restructuring options
exist, banks will be able to use the threat of liquidation and the incentive of refinancing to
encourage their problem clients to use the advisory services under the project to formulate
and implement business plans;
* training to judges and for liquidators implementing bankruptcy and reorganization in the
agricultural sector.
Institutional reforms to address constraints on credit flows to agriculture: Credit is not flowing to
agriculture in part because: (i) banks do not have the experience or capacity to appraise and monitor
agricultural projects; (ii) transaction costs are high; and (iii) agricultural projects are risky because no
well-defined procedures for secured lending exist. The project will support institutional reforms in this
area through:
*   capacity building in commercial banks for agricultural loan appraisal and supervision, and
improved understanding of commodity and collateral markets;
*   TA and training to promote the use of land as collateral and the registration of security
interests in crops and other agriculture related assets, including crop pledging mechanisms,
and warehouse receipts.
3.     Benefits and target population:
The principal benefit of the project will be increased productivity of newly privatized rural enterprises.
Significant increases in productivity and profits are expected to derive from both the availability of
advisory services which will provide information and advice to improve farm efficiency, and the flow of
credit which will provide access to inputs and equipment. As a result of the restructuring process,
previously under-utilized agricultural capacity will be put back into productive use. The project will
generate increased productivity for important crops and livestock products and, in the case of wheat,
increased exports. Farm workers should also benefit by the increased ability of farms to pay wages on
time and in cash, rather than in-kind.
In the long-term the development of advisory and information services is expected to be replicated
throughout Kazakhstan, spreading benefits on a nation-wide scale. The successful implementation of
farm restructuring and its associated financing will also enhance the understanding and experience of
commercial banks in lending to agricultural producers. This experience should facilitate the spread of
agricultural lending in other areas of Kazakhstan.
The development of institutional capacity for bankruptcy proceedings will also help initiate creditor-led
restructuring or bankruptcy of indebted farms which are not prepared to go through restructuring
willingly with the help of the advisory services. Bankruptcy and the resulting sale of farm assets will help



Page 11
to bring those assets back into productive use.
The types of farms targeted for support in their restructuring efforts include family-owner farms, and
larger corporate entities including cooperatives, partnerships and joint stock companies. Workers on the
corporate farms will benefit from advisory services aimed at clarifying share holding, formalizing
arrangements for leasing shares, assisting those that wish to establish their own farms and identifying off-
fartn income earning opportunities. Other rural inhabitants who want to establish farming or non-farming
related activities will also benefit from the project.
4.    Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: Implementation of the program will be over approximately ten years. The first
phase focusing on the institutional and legal framework and on initiating commercial financing of
restructured farms and associated rural enterprises will be implemented over three years.
Executing Agency: The Ministry of Agriculture will be the executing agency for the project. A PIU has
been established in the Ministry with primary responsibility for overseeing project implementation. The
PIU will report directly to the Minister of Agriculture. It will oversee and coordinate project activities and
ensure that project implementation is consistent with stated project objectives. It will be responsible for
preparing and overseeing implementation of annual work programs, monitoring, evaluation and reporting,
and procurement of goods and services. It will also be responsible for implementation of the institutional
development component including coordination with the Ministry of Justice, other donors and the
proposed Legal Reform Project. (See Annex 2 for detailed description of PIU functions).
Rural Advisory Centers: The Rural Advisory Centers will be based in each oblast capital. They will
coordinate with the Oblast Department of Agriculture but will have autonomous project status. The
advisory centers will have a full complement of staff including a director, farm business management
specialists, and technical specialists. In addition, the centers will operate mobile units to expand project
outreach. They will be responsible for assisting farms to undertake restructuring and assuring that farms
applying for credit under the project meet all eligibility criteria. The advisory centers are expected to
charge for the consulting services they provide to the farms, though at the outset of the project, full cost
recovery is not possible given the poor financial condition of most farms. Nonetheless, it is an objective
of the program that the advisory services be self-sustaining by the end of the program and a schedule for
cost recovery will be developed for introduction beginning in the second year of project implementation.
Establishment of the Rural Advisory Centers by the Government and their legal registration will be a
condition of project effectiveness.
An Advisory Council will be established in each oblast. The Council will provide guidance on the
development of advisory services in the oblast and encourage the uptake of advice and services by means
of publicity and promotional activities. The Council will provide guidance only; they will have no
management, supervisory, control or funding responsibilities.  The Advisory Council will have
representatives from the oblast Department of Agriculture, farmers associations, the commercial banks,
research institutes, consumers, and agro-industry.
Credit Component: The Ministry of Finance (MOF), through the Committee for External Loans (CEL),
will on-lend the credit line funds to eligible PFIs, which will, in turn, extend sub-loans to the ultimate
intended project beneficiaries. The PFIs will be selected according to eligibility criteria (see Annex 10)
which include full compliance with the National Bank of Kazakhstan's regulations, capital adequacy,
sound financial policies, and institutional capacity with professional staff adequately trained and
specialized in medium- and long-term investment lending, and a sufficient network of branches in rural
area. According to sub-borrower demand, the PFIs will lend in US dollars or in the dollar equivalent of



Page 12
Tenge, and they will bear the full credit risk. Initially, the Project will start with three or four PFIs,
however, participation will remain open to all interested banks which meet the eligibility criteria.
Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) will be signed between the MOF and each PFI that spell-out the
terms and conditions for the loans to the PFI's, and for the sub-loans to the final borrower. Signing of an
SLA with at least one PFI will be a condition of project effectiveness.
The CEL will manage the credit line of the Bank Loan and channel funds to eligible PFIs in accordance
with Subsidiary Loan Agreements entered into between PFIs and the MOF. PFIs, in turn, will extend
sub-loans to Project beneficiaries. In accordance with applications prepared by the PIU, CEL will also
process withdrawals of funds from the Loan Account for financing of other project-related activities
included in the Project. The CEL will work closely with the Bank Supervision Department of the NBK
and the PIU to monitor annually that PFIs continue to comply with the agreed eligibility criteria.
The specific activities to be performed by the CEL will include the following:
(a) administer and maintain the Loan Account, the Special Account, and the consolidated Project
Account;
(b) consolidate reimbursement applications received from PFIs, through the PIU, and
disbursement applications prepared by PIU for other project-related activities, submit withdrawal
applications to the World Bank, on-lend and channel Loan funds to the PFIs and the PIU, and maintain
records of all project related financial operations;
(c) administer the Special Account and ensure that adequate funds for disbursement to PFIs and
PIU are available in the Special Account, and submit to the World Bank, whenever necessary,
applications for replenishment of the Special Account, based on SOEs received from PIU, and on the
bank statements and additional information in accordance with World Bank guidelines;
(d) maintain the Subsidiary Loan Accounts for the respective shares of the Loan on-lent to PFIs,
and collect principal, interest and any charges that are payable by PFIs in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(e) ensure compliance with audit requirements in coordination with the MOF and the PIU;
(f) provide to MOF, MOA, NBK, PIU and the World Bank information on the above activities
in accordance with agreed procedures, reporting formats and requirements.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The PIU will carry out financial accounting'
and will maintain separate project accounts and records for project related expenditures in accordance
with International Accounting Standards (IAS). The PIU will be responsible for the preparation of
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and preparing financial reports. Accounts will be audited annually
according to International Standards on Auditing (ISA) by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and the Government. Audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the
calendar year (Government of Kazakhstan fiscal year). Appointment of independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring and evaluation of project implementation will be the primary
responsibility of the PIU. It will design and implement a simple monitoring and reporting system to
gather information on the activities of the advisory centers, the PFI's, the institutional development
component and the farms supported by the project. The monitoring results will be reviewed in quarterly



Page 13
reports which would be consolidated into bi-annual reports which would be submitted for bank review.
The M&E system will be guided by the logical framework presented in Annex 1 and specific output and
impact indicators to be monitored have been agreed. The system will also evaluate progress in
implementing the annual work programs to be prepared by the PIU. The M&E system will be key in
providing the lessons of experience needed for the design of the second phase of the program. In this
connection, a mid-term review for the project will be held by no later than April 2000. An
Implementation Completion Report will be prepared, at most, six months after the final disbursement of
the loan.
D:    Project Rationale
1.    Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Detailed design alternatives
Rural Advisory Centers Design Issues: Detailed consultation was undertaken during project design to
identify the appropriate institutional base for the advisory services. Public sector options which would
base the advisory services within Government were rejected because: (i) commercial advice is likely to
generate a viable return making it attractive to private providers; (ii) there are difficulties with creating
appropriate incentives for the provision of quality advice through public structures; and (iii) farmers
remain suspicious of government services.
The chosen option is therefore to establish autonomous advisory centers which in the short term will
provide a core advisory capacity to meet the immediate technical and commercial needs of restructuring
farms. In the medium term the project will act as a catalyst for the development of private sector advisory
capacity. It will build private sector advisory skills, increase the effective demand for advisory services
by establishing the perception of need amongst potential users and establish the principle of payment for
advisory services.
Finance related design issues: During project preparation two options for extending credit to
restructured farms were considered:
Option 1: to establish a new Non-Bank-Financial-Institution (NBFI). This option was rejected during
project preparation because: (i) Government policy is to promote development of a competitive rural
financial system, and it is reluctant to duplicate existing commercial bank capacity; and (ii) it would not
address the need to build commercial bank capacity and experience in agriculture.
Option 2: to channel credit through commercial banks at their own risk. This option has been chosen
based on a preliminary assessment of the capacity and willingness of existing Banks to participate in the
proposed credit line. Up to nine banks have expressed interest in participating in the credit component.



Page 14
2.     Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (compeited,
ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                      Project             Latest Supervision (Fonn 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Agricultural Privatization and Market  Structural Adjustment           S                S
Liberalization                         Loan (FY95)
Institutional strengthening of the NBK, and  Financial and Enterprise  U                S
twinning arrangements with commercial    Development (FY95)
banks
Reform of financial policies including  Financial Sector               S                S
improved NBK supervision and regulation   Adjustment Loan (FY96)
of commercial banks
Rehabilitation of on-farm irrigation works,  Irrigation and Drainage   S                S
improved environmental assessment     Improvement Project
capacity, and pilot farm information,  (FY96)
demonstration, and training activities.
Test mechanisms for the registration of  Land and Real Estate          S                S
rights to land and real estate in Akmola and  Registration Pilot Project
Almaty Oblasts                         (FY97)
National roll-out of the registration system   Land and Real Estate   NA               NA
Registration II (FY99)
Development of a supportive legal      Legal Reform Project           NA               NA
framework for commercial agriculture
Development of sustainable agricultural  Agricultural Services        NA               NA
services                               Project (FY00)
Other development agencies
Provision of Farm Advisory Services    EU -TACIS Pilot (FY95-
FY97)
Commercial Law Reforn                  USAID (ongoing)
Pricing reform, subsidy removal, and   ADB Program Loan
support for farm and agribusiness      (FY96)
privatization
Farm Restructuring                     ADB Agricultural Post
Privatization Assistance
Project(under preparation)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3.     Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
General: Privatization programs in other states of the former Soviet Union have gone some way to
addressing the problems that are currently occurring in Kazakhstan. In Nizhny Novgorod in Russian, for
example, a similar process has been adopted to allocate land and property shares, but this has been



Page 15
followed with a widespread campaign to inform entitlement holders of the potential company structures
that could be created, and model charter documents have been established. The Nizhny model promotes
farm restructuring through an auction process in which potential business leaders compete for the
property of the farn by establishing blocks of shares. While the Nizhny model has introduced
transparency into the privatization and restructuring process, the experience shows that: (i) additional
initiatives are required to provide technical advice to farms so that participants have a better
understanding of the potential viability of alternative activities before new enterprises are created; (ii)
post-privatization support services such as business and technical advice, and measures to improve access
to rural credit and to input and output markets are needed to complement privatization and restructuring
programs if restructuring enterprises are to have a real chance of achieving commercial viability.
Advisory Service Related Lessons: Experience in other projects demonstrates that advisory services are
not effective in promoting restructuring if they are not accompanied by other project interventions.
Specifically, advisory services have no leverage to enforce restructuring once they have delivered their
recommendations, and in many cases enterprise managers may have no incentive to consult the service.
Experience also shows that because advisory center staff have no stake in the restructuring enterprise,
their advice is frequently not practical or commercially oriented. Based on these lessons the project has
incorporated a major institutional development component which will allow creditors to exert pressure on
farm enterprises to consult advisory services and to restructure. The project emphasis on private business
support infrastructure is expected in the long run to improve the quality of advice to enterprises as the
service providers will have a stake in its quality and effectiveness.
Finance Related Lessons: The experience of the Bank and other donors demonstrates that:
*   macro-economic stabilization, market liberalization and privatization are all pre-requisites
for effective financial interventions. These basic conditions have been met in Kazakhstan;
*   Rural credit projects often face difficulties because: (i) profitable opportunities for lending
are lacking: (ii) PFIs are unaccustomed to rural lending and do not know the clientele; (iii)
the risks are high, particularly if the PFI concentrates lending only on agriculture and/or in a
limited geographical area; and (iv) the transactions costs of rural lending are high relative to
other lending opportunities. The project will address these difficulties by providing
advisory services aimed at changes required to create profitable lending opportunities. The
advisory centers will also bring prospective borrowers and the PFIs together through
assistance in developing business plans. Selection of PFIs in the project will emphasize
banks that are diversified and have the capacity to undertake agricultural lending in the
context of a balanced portfolio both from a sectoral and geographical perspective. Finally,
the project through training of PFI staff on the appraisal and supervision of agricultural
loans and by improving the environment for secured lending will help mitigate the high cost
and risks of agricultural lending.
4.    Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
*   The Government has established a working group comprising officials from  all key
Ministries and Departments to oversee project design work. The working group has been
involved extensively at all stages of project design;
*   A Project Preparation Facility of US$0.85 million has been approved to establish the PIU
and recruit and train local staff for the advisory centers;
*   Government has included funding for the project in its FY98 budget, established the PIU,



Page 16
appointed a project director; and sent a letter confirming the overall program design and
concept.
5.    Value added of Bank support in this project:
Following the collapse of the centrally administered system in agriculture and the breakdown of input
distribution and financing mechanisms, the majority of farms in Kazakhstan are caught in a trap of low
productivity, low profits, exhausted capital stock and poor access to essential technology. A major effort
is now required to reverse the collapse in productivity. Bank support for this effort is essential to provide
financing and access to the requisite technical skills and experience.
Specifically with regard to advisory services, a project intervention is justified for two reasons:
*   The scale of the skills upgrading on farms and in support structures necessary to establish an
efficient and commercially viable farm sector; and
*   The failure of the market to provide adequate access to advice and training. On the supply
side, private sector capacity to provide commercial and technical advice is limited. Although
a number of emerging private consulting companies exist, they have limited experience and
there is little information on the services that they provide. On the demand side, farmers do
not often perceive the need for improved commercial and technical practices and currently
have a limited capacity to pay for this advice.
E:    Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1.    Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 8.5 million; ERR= 37 percent
Methodology: The approach chosen for the financial and economic analysis has been to develop a series
of models typical of the farming situations in the two project oblasts. Six models have been developed,
including a large-scale wheat farm, a mixed crop farm, a small vegetable farm and various livestock
enterprises. Each model compares with and without situations and illustrates possible changes induced
by the project on costs and productivity. Overall economic analysis of the project has been carried out by
aggregating the farm and enterprise models, based on an assumed distribution and phasing of sub-projects
financed over the project lifetime. The distribution and phasing are only indicative, as the final mix of
sub-projects under the project can not be determined a priori. For the aggregate analysis, with-project
costs include the total costs of the advisory services, institutional development and PIU components. No
separate financial or economic analysis has been undertaken for the individual components as no single
component is considered to be capable of having an impact on farm productivity in isolation.
Key Assumptions of the Analysis: (i) Discount rate: 12 percent; (ii) Time horizons: 10 years; (iii) farn
gate prices of tradable commodities were derived by using World Bank projections for the year 2005 in
1990 constant prices, using the G-5 manufacturing unit value indices for inflation and adjusted for
transport to the farm gate; (iv)prices for non-traded commodities were based on local market prices in
mid-1997 adjusted to the farm gate; and (v) adjustments for the economic analysis included removal of
taxes and duties and the use of a standard conversion factor of 0.9 for non-traded value added and inputs.
Assumptions about impacts on markets: Impact on markets is considered limited. Local markets exist for
vegetables and processed meats, flour, breads and pasta. National and international markets are expected
to absorb the production of wheat, barley, milk, and beef.
Results: NPV's for the various farm and enterprise models range from US$536,000 for the Akmola



Page 17
wheat farrn model to US$14,000 for the beef rearing model. ERR's range from 37 percent for the Almaty
mixed model to around 100 percent for the small farm and dairy models.
Sensitivity Analysis: Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to assess the impact on the economic returns of
changes in (i) output prices; (ii) expected yields; (iii) operating costs; and (iv) investment costs. A major
risk is that farms receiving credit under the project will fail to achieve the increased productivity
envisaged in the analysis. The sensitivity analysis for yield changes provides a proxy measure for such a
failure. While the models are more sensitive to changes in both yield and price assumptions than they are
to changes in investment or operating costs, they remain robust in face of fairly substantial changes in the
revenue parameters. Only the mixed farming model shows some sensitivity to changes in yield
assumptions as the internal rate of return drops to 21 percent from 37 percent when with-project yields at
full development are reduced by ten percent. The switching value for revenue for this model is a 13
percent drop in revenues.
2.     Financial (see Annexes 2 & 4): NPV=N.A.    million; FRR= N.A. percent
Results: The main findings of the financial analysis are (i) gross and net returns per hectare increase
significantly for each of the models in the with-project case; (ii) the individual financial NPV's for the
farm models tested are positive, indicating the potential viability and attractiveness of farm restructuring;
and (iii) the degree of profitability varies considerably between sub-projects. The dairy and small farm
models farm yields the highest financial returns, while beef rearing is likely to be more marginal as a
stand alone enterprise.
Sensitivity analysis: A sensitivity analysis using financial prices was also undertaken. The main findings
are that the Akmola arable model is not particularly sensitive to relative changes in yields, output prices
or costs. The other sub-projects are more susceptible to changes in price and yield parameters, but the
impact of cost changes remains limited. The Almaty mixed farming model is particularly sensitive to
changes in crop yields.
For the PFI's, financial analysis is underway. Selection of banks for participation in the project will be
based on (i) the competence and independence of the Bank's management and the adequacy of its lending
polices; (ii) the competence and independence of its management, (iii) the reliability of its reporting; (iv)
its financial position, including the health of its portfolio; and (iv) compliance with audit requirements.
Based on preliminary analysis it is likely that three to four banks will initially qualify to participate in the
project.
Fiscal impact:
The project will have a small fiscal impact as the Republican budget will need to finance the PIU during
project implementation, as well as part of the costs of establishing the advisory centers in the initial years,
while cost recovery mechanisms are being put in place. Total expenditures per annum during the
implementation period are about US$1.5 million which is less then two percent of Government
expenditure on agriculture for 1998.   Government counterpart funds required during project
implementation for the PIU will build to a maximum of about US$100,000 per year. Indirectly, the
project will generate increased Government revenues through tax receipts on incremental production on
restructured farms.
3.     Technical:
PFI's will receive training in the technical appraisal and supervision of sub-projects. The advisory
centers will build a network of technical specialists to support adoption of appropriate technologies on
farms undergoing restructuring.



Page 18
4.    Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is the main executing agency. It will receive
technical assistance and staff training during the initial implementation period. The focus of the TA and
training will be on project management, accounting and auditing, and monitoring and evaluation. The
PIU will work closely with the CEL in the Ministry of Finance and with the management of the Rural
Advisory Centers. The CEL is currently receiving technical assistance in project accounting and
procurement and is overseeing implementation of other Bank-financed projects.
b. Project management: The project will be managed from the PIU located in the MOA. A project
director has been appointed to establish and manage the unit and staff are being recruited.
5.    Social:
A social assessment was undertaken involving a household survey, in-depth interviews, focus group
discussions and stakeholder workshops (Annex 6). The social assessment confirmed the need for project
initiatives, particularly for information, financial and management advice and credit. It also indicated an
unexpectedly strong interest among independent farmers to create farmer associations to assist with input
provision, marketing, purchasing and managing machinery, coordinating farm work, and obtaining credit.
The social assessment also raised concerns that need special attention. First, many people are poorly
informed about privatization and its implications for management structures and ownership, which
generates confusion and a high level of discontent. Farm workers, especially, feel exploited and
uncertain about the future. One cause of discontent, and concern, is the fact that some farm managers
have obtained land shares from workers through coercion or by promising to pay salaries which have not
been paid or are being paid in-kind. Although oblast officials apparently are responding to complaints,
the project will also review the issue in each farm that is included, to ensure that restructured farms are
created from land shares that are transferred or leased from well-informed, willing members.
Second, much of the social infrastructure has deteriorated or closed. Social centers and kindergartens
have closed; medical care is now limited and no longer free; and schools are deteriorating and their fate is
uncertain as one requirement for successful commercialization of many farms may be further curtailment
of spending on social infrastructure. Each restructuring plan will consider this issue and the advisory
centers or network consultants will offer advice to farmers on how to mitigate any negative impact.
Moreover, during appraisal the Bank will seek assurance that oblasts allocate sufficient funds from their
budget to assume responsibility for divested assets in the communities affected by project investments.
Also, studies of the impact on local budgets of transfer of the social infrastructure will be undertaken
with resources from the PPF to identify possible interventions in the second phase to build capacity in the
local administrations to absorb newly acquired infrastructure.
Finally, unemployment among current farm workers is likely to rise as a consequence of restructuring
efforts. The project will employ a two pronged approach to help mitigate the problem of unemployment.
First, it aims to assure that workers have the information needed to make informed decisions about the
use of their property shares as a potential source of income (lease payments or dividends) that could help
offset lost wages. Second, the project would support the development of private non-farm businesses in
the affected communities. Currently, the base farms control virtually all economic activity in farm
settlements, from production to commerce and services. Much of the commercial and service structure
has deteriorated along with other capital assets.  In order for the settlements to become viable
communities, commerce and services must be divested and developed. To address this issue the study
being conducted under the PPF would assess community resources and needs and identify opportunities
for investment in private activities that address local needs. Specifically, the assessments would provide
data needed to develop approaches to promote the private sector in farm communities, thereby providing
employment to people displaced by the restructuring process. Based on the needs and resources



Page 19
identified in the rapid assessment, the advisory centers and the network will help nascent entrepreneurs
develop business and accounting skills and prepare business plans that can be submitted to banks or
emerging micro-credit schemes for credit to establish new small enterprises that serve the fann
communities. Initially, the planning and investment would be focused on basic needs--retail clothing and
food stores, pharmacies, repair shops, and the like. Over time, more specialized enterprises may emerge,
as well.
6.    Environmental assessment:   Environmental Category    [IA   fxl B   [I C
The project has been rated as environmental screening category "B." The proposed operation is expected
to have positive environmental effects through the promotion of improved land use practices, farming
methods, and agricultural product processing. The proposed project is consistent with the Kazakhstan's
environmental assessment procedures and the provisions of Operational Directive 4.01 'Environmental
Assessment.' The project would help strengthen local capacities in environmentally sustainable
approaches to agricultural development. Each sub-project will be subject to an environmental checklist.
Loan officers of PFIs, PIU and Advisory Centers staff will receive a training course on environmental
screening of loan applications based on Bank prepared Environmental Guidelines for Financial
Intermediary Loans. In addition, a leaflet on the use of agricultural chemicals will be distributed to PFIs.
Ex-post evaluation of sub-projects during supervision will include an evaluation of the exact nature of the
activities financed by the Credit Component.
7.    Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
Participatory approach not used, describe why not applicablel:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary project beneficiaries include farm owners and managers, farm workers, independent small
farmers, commercial banks and the network of independent service providers. These groups participated
in the project design process in the following ways:
*   field visits to each category of primary beneficiary were undertaken to consult the
beneficiaries on priorities for project action, project design options and to test project
concepts (CON);
*   farm managers participated in Bank seminars carried out at the oblast levels to assess
priority needs and obtain feedback on project design concepts (CON);
*   a detailed survey was undertaken covering 538 workers and 62 independent farrners. This
covered a survey of households (IS), in-depth interviews with farm managers and workers
(CON), focus group discussions with the heads of farm enterprises and independent farmers
(CON). A report on the results of the household surveys, in-depth interviews and focus
groups is in the project file;
*   meetings were held with commercial banks, involving an explanation of project objectives.
These meetings determined priorities to be addressed through the financing component and
contributed to project design and the arrangements for implementation of the component
(COL);
b. Other key stakeholders include Government, oblast and raion level administrations, input providers,
the World Bank and other donors. They participated in the project design process through:



Page 20
*   the working group comprising representatives from all relevant Ministries and Departments.
The working group extensively influenced project design and implementation arrangements
(COL);
*   field visits to oblast administrations where officials participated in determining project
design and implementation arrangements (COL);
*   visits to input suppliers to identify bottlenecks and priorities, and test project design
concepts (CON);
*   visits to other donors to inform them about the project, identify areas for collaboration and
share experience (IS /CON).
F:    Sustainability and Risks
1.    Sustainabiity:
The advisory services component has been designed to promote the development of sustainable private
sector structures which will operate on a cost recovery basis and will be self financing at the end of the
implementation phase. The credit component also has been designed to promote the development of a
sustainable commercial rural finance system capable of meeting the needs of the agricultural sector in the
longer term. This will be achieved by encouraging commercial bank participation in the project to
provide experience and build capacity for commercial lending to the sector, through the development of
improved legislation to reduce the risks of agricultural sector lending and by testing practical procedures
for bankruptcy, liquidation and secured lending.



Page 21
2.    Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Social concerns it.hibit restructuring  M             Social issues to be addressed by
advisory services
Government intervention in credit and   M             Government assurance to Bank that
marketing increases                                   any credit resources from the
budget will be provided on the same
terms that are not subsidized and
which are agreed with the Bank.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
No effective demand for consultancy services  M       Cost recovery phased gradually
over implementation period,
creditor led processes emphasized
Banks not willing to participate        M             Incentive packages reflect bank
requirements, design avoids
bureaucracy, PFIs do appraisal and
set on-lending rates
Advisory network not forthcoming        N             Financing for network participation
included
High loan default rates                 M             Role of advisory services,
possibility of collateral seizure,
bankruptcy law enacted
Overall Risk Rating M           I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3.    Possible Controversial Aspects:
none
G:    Main Loan Conditions
1.    Effectiveness Conditions:
* Standard Conditions;
* Regional Rural Advisory Centers established by the Borrower and legally registered;
* Subsidiary Loan Agreement signed with at least one Participating Financial Institution;
* Legislation on the registration of pledges on moveable property satisfactory to the Bank
promulgated by the Parliament; and
* Independent Auditors, acceptable to the Bank, appointed by the Borrower.



Page 22
2.    Other Conditions:
Accounts and Audits:
* Standard auditing covenants will apply; and
* The Borrower will open and properly maintain a Special Account.
Management:
* The Regional Rural Advisory Centers will be maintained and fully staffed;
* Regional Advisory Councils will be established by no later then September 30, 1998; and
* Cost-recovery mechanisms for Rural Advisory Centers developed and agreed with bank by
no later than April 30, 1999.
Credit Component
* The Borrower will, by January 1, 2000, terminate all subsidies for agricultural credit from its
budgetary resources, except as otherwise discussed and agreed with the Bank prior thereto.
Environment
* Training based on the guidelines will be provided to staff of the PFIs, PIU, and Rural
Advisory Centers by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources by December 31,
1998.
Monitoring, review and reporting
* Standard reporting covenants will apply;
* To ensure adequate planning of project activities, the PIU will no later then November 30 of
each year prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and approval an annual work program
that includes targets for farms to be restructured, technical assistance requirements, and
training to be undertaken during the reporting period; and
* An in-depth review will be take place no later then April 2000 as part of the preparation for
the second phase of the program.
H.    Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.



Page 23
I.     Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader:     V            , 
Sector Director:   ? /                     4.
Country Director:



Page 24
Annex 1
KAZAKHSTAN - AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Design Summary
NARRATIVE                   KEY PERFORMANCE  MONITORING &                         CRMTICAL
SUMMARY                    INDICATORS                  EVALUATION                 ASSUMPTIONS
Sector Related CAS Goal:                                                          (Goal to Bank mission)
* Reverse prolonged decline  Yields per hectare        National statistical office  Agriculture will remain a
in agricultural productivity                        data                       priority sector in terms of
and income               Per capita rural incomes                              its total contribution to
GDP and employment
Farmn profitability
Program Development                                                               Program Development
Objective:                                                                        Objectives to CAS Goals)
Government maintains the
* Accelerated               Corporate form of farms    Department of agriculture  political and budgetawy
commercialization in     shifts from production co-    statistics              commitment necessary to
newly privatized         ops to individual private                             foster farm-level change
agricultural enterprises in  farms, partnerships and joint  Farm records
two key agricultural     stock companies. Percentage                           The incentive structure
oblasts of Kazakhstan -  of farms registered as     Project reports            (prices, markets) is
Akmola, and Almaty -     cooperatives reduced by 20                            conducive to innovation
leading to increased rural   percent by program                                and new investment
productivity and incomes   completion.
* Phase I - advisory and    Profitability increased in at
rural infrastructure    least 70 percent of the rural
established and operational enterprises assisted by
procedures tested.       program
* Phases II - sustainable   Yields per hectare increased
advisory and fnancial    by an average of 30 percent
infrastructure fully     on farms assisted by
operational in the two   program.
project oblasts.
Project Development                                                               (Project objective to
Objective:                  By the end of Phase I:     AC reports to PIU          program objective)
* To test and establish     *   At least 1,000 contacts  Reporting by independent    Sufficient management
sustainable advisory and     and referrals for the  advisory organizations     capacity exists or can be
rural financial              Advisory network                                  developed in agricultural
infrastructure required to                                                    I enterprises



Page 25
support enterprise
restructuring and efficient   *   At least 300 clients  PFI reporting                Satisfactory loan
commercial operations          supported by advisory                                repayment rates can be
centers or accredited                                achieved
network advisors.
Willingness to pay for
At least 15 network                                  advisory services
advisors in each oblast
certified to provide                                 Sufficient numbers of
services by RACs.                                   independent business
advisers available / emerge
*   At least 40 percent of                                in each oblast
cost of the advisory
services are recovered                               Sufficient number of
through fees by end of                               viable business plans
phase one.                                           forwarded to PFI's
*   At least 70 loans to
family farms and 20
loans to corporate
farms, cooperatives, or
partnerships
*   Less than 10% of
outstanding sub-loans
classified as problem
loans
Outputs:
Rural Advisory Centers
*  Advisory Centers           *   Advisory service         Project reports, supervision    Potential for commercial
established in the two         established in first half   visits                    viability not limited by
oblasts, providing             of year one                                           what has already taken
commercial and technical                                Project registration data    place
advice and referral
services
*  Local business support     *   Network of local         Advisory Center reporting    Social and subsistence
infrastructure identified,     business, management,                                 concerns do not inhibit
capacity established and       legal, and technical     Project reports, supervision    restructuring
meeting enterprise             advisors identified,     visits
advisory needs                 training and certified by                             Government remains
end of year one         Project reports              committed to non-
interventionist policy (e.g.
*  Cadre of trainers trained  *   Training programs        Reports from RAC's and       no directed credits)
delivered in each year   local business advisors
of the project
*  Restructuring tool kit     *   Tool-kit available and    Project reports
created including              translated by end of
procedures manual and          year one.
templates for each stage in
the advisory process                                    TACIS project reports,



Page 26
supervision visits
* Cost recovery plan        *   Cost recovery plan
prepared.                    developed and tested,
by end of year one.
Credit Component
* Capacity created in       *   Training programs      PIU reports, supervision
commercial banks to          delivered in years one   visits.
appraise and supervise       and two
lending to agricultural
enterprises
* Channel of credit available  *   SLA in place for four
to eligible farms and        PFI's, lending
operating successfully       underway to balanced
portfolio with at least
70 loans to private
individual farms.
Institutional Component
* Framework designed for    *   Necessary legislation
warehouse receipts and       and institutional
crop pledging                framework developed
by end of phase one   PIU reports, supervision
visits.
* Improved capacity for debt *   Training programs
workout and creditor led     delivered
restructuring in PFI's
* Tested procedures for     *   Bankruptcy
agricultural bankruptcy      proceedings in routine
use with liquidation
proceedings in each
oldest being pursued by
creditors.
* Trained judges and        *   Training programs
liquidators                  developed delivered in
years one and two.
Inputs (Budget):
* Rural Advisory Centers    US$2.40                    Progress reports,          Government takes timely
disbursement reports       action on TA and
procurement contracts to
enable establishment of
advisory centers on
schedule.
Highly qualified
counterpart staff can be
identified, recruited, and



Page 27
trained.
* Credit Component          US$19.46                   Progress reports and
monitoring of PFI's by CEL   At least one PFI sign
and PIU                    Subsidiary Loan
Agreement by project
launch and at least four
PFI' participating in phase
one
Training program
supported by EU-TACIS
Funds are effective in
building institutional
capacity in PFI's to
appraise and supervise
rural based lending.
Based on experience with
credit lines PFI's display
increasing willingness to
land their own funds for
rural lending
*  Institutional Devleopment  US$0.50 million          Progress reports and       Qualified consultants are
Componemt                                              monitoring by PIU          identified and recruited,
training programs are
effective in developing
capacity to administer
bankruptcy procedures for
agricultural enterprises.
e PIU                       US$0.56 million            Progress reports and       Qualified staff can be
monitoring by CEL,         identified, recruited and
supervision reports        trained qualified
consultants recruited to
support establishment of
PIU



Page 28
Annex 2
KAZAKHSTAN - AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Description
1.    The proposed project is intended to develop an improved process of farm restructuring that leads
to increased farm productivity and higher farm incomes. Much of the effort to date has focused on the
legal and organizational status of farms and the proposed project would assist in the continuing efforts to
develop appropriate ownership and management structures. It will also emphasize measures to improve
the commercial viability of new farm enterprises and help them to develop business plans that can be
used to approach the commercial banks for financing to be provided under the project. Moreover, the
project would seek to strengthen the legal and institutional framework for agricultural lending and for
bankruptcy of agricultural enterprises. The project activities will be located in two oblasts, namely
Akmola and Almaty. These are four components including; (i) Rural Advisory Services; (ii) Credit for
variable farms and associated enterprises;  (iii) Institutional Development; and, (iv) a Project
Implementation Unit.
2.    Rural Advisory Services Component - US$2.4 million.
Under this component the project will:
*   improve access to information for shareholders of newly privatized farms;
*   build local business support infrastructure to deliver technical and commercial advice and
training to farms and associated enterprises; and
*   build local capacity for the provision of advice relating to the resolution of social issues
arising from the restructuring process;
3.    Information. Technical assistance will be provided to package and distribute information to
farm members who are land entitlement holders. This information will focus on the rights of land
entitlement, and the potential uses of property entitlements in the creation of new businesses or in
generating income (e.g. through leasing arrangements). The information will be distributed through direct
contact with farm communities by network members and through printed briefing materials.
4.    Technical and Commercial Advice. Preparation work has demonstrated the importance of
improved commercial and technical advice to farms and associated in bringing about commercial
viability and the project will help to build local capacity to provide these types of advisory services.
Rather than establishing new advisory infrastructure, the project will help strengthen private and public
advisory organizations that already exists in both oblasts. These organizations include consultants,
agronomists, lawyers, accountants, research institutes and universities.
5.    To support the development of existing advisory organizations, the project will establish Rural
Advisory Centers in each oblast. The advisory centers will be independent non-profit organizations,
overseen by an Advisory Council comprised of representatives of the farming community and PFIs. The
advisory centers will initially identify and accredit existing advisory organizations, assist in building
capacity in these organizations, and refer farms to appropriate providers of advisory services. While the



Page 29
advisory centers will mainly focus on developing this network of service providers, they will have some
independent capacity to provide both technical and commercial advice which will supplement the
network, particularly in the early stages of project implementation. The advisory organizations will
provide their services to farms on a commercial basis. A fund will be operated by the RACs to finance
part of the cost these services where full cost recovery is not possible. Guidelines on cost recovery
satisfactory to the bank will be prepared during establishment of the advisory centers.
6.    Each advisory center will be staffed by a local director, business management consultants and an
agronomist. Each center will be supported by short-tern internationally recruited farm business
management specialists and agronomists. To facilitate promotion and access to support services, each
Center will also operate mobile services staffed by one local business management consultant and one
agronomist. Clients for the centers and the network of service providers are expected to include: (i)
family farms that have broken away from larger operations and need advice on achieving commercial
viability; (ii) co-operatives, partnerships and joint stock companies at various stages in the restructuring
process; and, (iii) farm enterprises emerging from bankruptcy proceedings.
7.     The initial consultation process will be designed to inform farms of the basic eligibility criteria
that must be met before any detailed advisory work is undertaken. Farms will need to demonstrate that
land and property entitlements have been properly distributed, that any initial restructuring has been
undertaken transparently, and that farm members have been fully informed. This first step will be
particularly important where initial restructuring has involved significant concentration of ownership.
Where land shares have been transferred on the basis of implicit lease arrangements these arrangements
will be formalized in written lease agreements. The initial consultation will also determine the
stakeholders willingness to consider measures that may be required to ensure commercial viability e.g.
downsizing, changes in management, and changes in on-farm activity.
8.    Once enterprise willingness to address both equity and efficiency aspects of restructuring has
been confirmed, the Advisory Centers will carry out a diagnostic review of the restructuring options for
the farm business, including identification of potential spin-off businesses, changes required in
commercial and technical aspects of the operations, and improvements needed in financial management.
The option favored by stakeholders will then be identified, farms will be required to undertake
fundamental restructuring tasks such as downsizing and the redistribution of land and property while
detailed business plans are being developed with the support of the network. Once fundamental
restructuring and business plaining has been undertaken, farms will be eligible to approach Participating
Financial Institutions (PFIs) to apply for financing. The farms will use standard business plan formats to
be agreed with the Bank, which will address key eligibility requirements related to ownership as well as
questions of commercial viability of the financing proposals.
9.    Once business plans are financed the advisory network will assist in the supervision of their
implementation. Moreover the centers will organize on-going training and demonstration for farmers.
Farm managers and owners currently lack many of the skills needed for effective day-to-day management
of the farmn business. The advisory centers would provide training of farm managers in farm planning,
accountancy and marketing.
10.   Advice on Social Issues. The advisory centers will also help develop capacity to provide advice
on social issues including advice on: (i) maintaining social services in the community and obtaining
finance for service provision from local authorities, and (ii) on alternative income generating activities
such as leasing arrangements for land, or the identification, planning and establishment of new businesses



Page 30
e.g. bookkeeping services, construction and maintenance companies servicing farms, machinery
servicing, input distribution, and consumer services.
Credit Component - US$19.46 million
II.   The credit component is intended to provide financing to farms undergoing restructuring, and
which can demonstrate commercial viability and ability to service a loan at commercial terms. The
financing will also be available to farm-related enterprises involved in marketing, input supply,
equipment services, processing and other income generating activities in rural communities. Loanswill
be for working capital to finance inputs, fuel, spare parts, and equipment repair. Medium term loanswill
be available for equipment. However, the Loan will not finance "land" or refinancing of already existing
debts. All farms and agri-businesses will have to make a contribution to sub-project costs of at least ten
percent for existing enterprises, and 25 percent for new enterprises. Lending to farms will be subject to
eligibility criteria to be agreed during appraisal related to ownership and management structure to assure
that farms supported by the program have been formed in a transparent and legal process (see annex 12 ).
12.   On-lending Arrangements: The credit component will be on-lent through PFIs which will bear
the full credit risk. Initially, the Project will start with three or four PFIs, however, participation will
remain open to all interested banks which meet the following eligibility criteria. Participating banks
should have:
*   a valid banking license;
*   a Certificate of Compliance issued by the NBK that the bank is in compliance with all
banking laws and regulations and fully satisfies the prudential regulations, including capital
adequacy, limits of exposure to one borrower and to insiders, and on open foreign exchange
position;
*   audited financial statements prepared in accordance with International Accounting
Standards (IAS);
*   an acceptable audit report covering the most recent one year of operations, including a
portfolio review, prepared by an internationally recognized audit firm in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (ISA);
*   an adequate network to serve rural clients;
* an adequate governing bodies (e.g. Councils, Boards) which set overall bank policy and
perform appropriate oversight over the bank's operation;
* expressed interest and experience in lending agricultural clients;
* internal operational systems and procedures (i.e. lending, internal control, audit, MIS and
IT, A&L, etc.) acceptable to the Bank; and
* expressed willingness to participate in a program of capacity building.
13.   Principal Terms and Conditions of Loans: The World Bank loan to the Government will be
for 20 years including a five year grace period (under the Loan Agreement between the Ministry of



Page 31
Finance and the World Bank). Subsidiary loans between the MOF and PFIs will be for around 15 years
(under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) between the MOF and each of the PFIs) to allow rolling
over of the loan proceeds by PFIs provided that the rolled-over funds are on-lent in accordance with
agreed criteria of eligible sub-borrowers. Terms of sub-loans to the final borrowers will be determined
by PFIs based on actual cash-flows and repayment capacity of the end-borrowers but will not exceed 12
years. All terms and conditions of the loan, subsidiary loans, and sub-loans will be detailed in the legal
agreements. Signing of a SLA by at least one eligible PFI will be a condition of loan effectiveness. The
SLA would detail the terms and conditions of sub-loans and respective roles and responsibilities of MOF
and PFIs.
14.   The Government has decided that the on-lending rate to PFIs will be set at the World Bank rate
(based on a single currency dollar loan with variable interest rate). Terms and conditions for sub-loans
from the PFI's to the final borrower include:
*   Terms of sub-loans to the final borrowers will be determined by PFIs based on actual cash-
flows and repayment capacity of the end-borrowers but will not exceed 12 years;
*   Final lending rates to the end-borrowers will be determined by PFIs based on a market-
based spread and actual risks pertaining to each sub-loan. On-lending rates will be
periodically reviewed by the MOF, PFIs and the Bank and adjusted as warranted;
* The sub-loan will be for both working capital and investments but will not finance purchase
or lease of land, dwelling construction or improvement, or refinancing of existing debts;
*   The sub-loan will be for a sub-project that shows a debt-service coverage ratio of at least
1.3; and
*   Each PFI will maintain a ratio in its portfolio from the Bank credit line of 20 percent
working capital and 80 percent fixed investment loans. This ratio would be subject to annual
review by the Government and the Bank.
15.   Loan proceeds will be on-lent in US$ equivalent (or any other foreign currency selected by the
Borrower). In the event that the Borrower wishes to allow PFIs to make local currency loans, agreement
will be sought that the MOF will bear the foreign exchange risks against a premium and on-lend to PFIs
in Tenge.
16.   Loan Limits. To maximize benefits of farm restructuring and the number of beneficiaries of the
project, maximum amounts of individual sub-loans and total cumulative balance of sub-loans to one
borrower will be imposed. Outstanding sub-loans to one borrower be limited to US$500,000 except in
Akmola oblast in exceptional cases where outstanding sub-loans to one borrower of up to $750,000
would be approved on a case-by-case basis up to an aggregate limit of US$5 million. All PFIs will be
free to consider for financing business plans that have not been prepared by project certified consultants.
However, because of concerns about the transparency of the process of share accumulation by managers
of large farming units, prior-review arrangements are being proposed as follows:
* For loans less then US$150,000 or for farms with arable land less of less then 10,000
hectares in Akmola, and 1,000 hectares in Almaty, each PFI will be free to process a loan
application provided that it is accompanied by an acceptable Business Plan;



Page 32
*   For Sub-Loan above US$150,000 and less than US$350,000 equivalent and for farm
exceeding the above size limits, each PFI would request borrowers to contact the Advisory
Centers to verify ownership status and to receive support in preparation of a Business Plan;
*   All sub-loans above US$350,000 will be required to be submitted to the Bank for prior -
review after Business Plans have been verified and/or prepared by the Advisory centers, and
the sub-loan application has been approved by PFI management and/or Loan Committee.
In addition to these reviews, to check for quality of loan appraisal participating banks, the first three sub-
loans by each participating banks will be subject to prior review by the World Bank, irrespective of loan
size.
17.   Capacity Building in the PFI's. The EU - TACIS is providing financing of ECU 1.2 million
for TA and Training to improve the institutional capacity in the PFI's to assess commercial opportunities
in the agricultural sector, appraise loan applications and supporting business plans, and supervise
outstanding loans. The activities financed by TACIS will be concentrated in the two oblast supported by
the World Bank loan. To assist in identifying gaps in loan procedures, project supervision, staff skills,
and in procedures to assure adherence to national and Bank environmental guidelines, a diagnostic study
of each potential participating Bank will be undertaken by short-term technical assistance to be financed
by the Project Preparation Facility. The results of the diagnostic studies will be made available to the
consultants selected for the TACIS project to assist in the detailed design of the institutional development
program.
Institutional Development Component - US$0.50 million
18.   Through technical assistance and training, the component will help to establish an institutional
framework to support the longer term development of a sustainable rural financial system capable of
meeting the sector's demand for credit. The component which will be managed by the Project
Implementation Unit will see to:
   facilitate secured lending through the development of procedures for using agricultural
commodities as collateral for commercial bank lending; and
*   support creditor led restructuring through capacity building in the PFI's  on practical
procedures for debt work out, bankruptcy and liquidation.
19.   Secured lending: A law on the registration of moveable property, including crops and other farm
assets has been developed by the Ministry of Justice with USAID assistance. The law is currentlybeing
considered by Parliament. The project will assist in the development of procedures for implementing this
legislation, primarily through the development of a crop pledging system in the project oblasts,
development of supplementary legislation relating to warehouse receipts and accounts receivable, and for
the design of a warehouse receipts system to facilitate secure storage and collateralization of crops.
20.   Creditor-led restructuring: Some farms are currently reluctant to restructure and are unlikely to
consult advisory services. Many of these enterprises are accumulating significant debts but face little
pressure to change. By strengthening creditors capacity to initiate restructuring, and by protecting creditor
rights, this sub component will help to stimulate outside forces for change. It will:



Page 33
* build capacity in PFI's to carry out liquidation analysis, and to initiate restructuring in
debtor enterprises. Each PFI will be asked to identify at least two non-performing loans to
be used as case studies;
* provide advice and assistance to creditors in utilizing recently developed regulations for
agricultural bankruptcy and liquidation;
* train judges, liquidators and administrators on issues unique to bankruptcy of agricultural
enterprises; and,
* advise workers in agricultural enterprises facing bankruptcy of their rights and options
related to the restructuring of the enterprises.
Project Implementation Unit - US$0.56 million
21.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is responsible for coordinating project implementation. A
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established in the ministry to undertake this coordination
function. The loan will provide funding for technical assistance, training, equipment and incremental
operating costs to support the operation of the unit. The PIU will be headed by a director and staffed by
personnel with adequate technical and professional skills. In addition, an internationally recruited project
and procurement advisor will assist the project director for an initial start-up period. The necessary
training in World Bank financial management, procurement and disbursement procedures, monitoring,
and evaluation will be provided to PIU staff. Functions of the PIU will include the following:
3   ensure that project implementation is consistent with the stated objectives of the Project and
the eligibility criteria for suborders and sub-projects, and complies with World Bank
guidelines for procurement and environmental protection;
*   coordinate inter-governmental activities associated with the execution of the Project in
liaison with the CEL in MOF, NBK and other Government departments and Donor
agencies;
*   monitor PFIs' lending operations, provide guidance to and monitor the Rural Advisory
Centers' activities under the Project, to ensure that these are consistent with the objectives of
the Project;
*   review and submit to the World Bank for approval the first three sub-projects proposed to be
financed by any PFI and any additional sub-projects exceeding $350,000. After the Rural
Advisory Centers will be fully operational, the review of sub-projects exceeding $350,000
(including feasibility studies, business plans, etc.) will be carried out by RAC and
transmitted to PIU for submission to the World Bank.
*   monitor adherence by PFIs with procurement guidelines stipulated in the Loan Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and ensure that sub-projects comply with
environmental regulations and standards;
*   maintain overall supervision over utilization by PFIs of the credit line and monitor that
implementation is progressing in a satisfactory manner;



Page 34
* receive from PFIs and compile, within seven days, the necessary documentation for
submission to CEL, to facilitate withdrawals from the World Bank Loan Account, including
submission of appropriate documents for replenishment of the Special Account;
* prepare necessary documentation and submit withdrawal applications to CEL for financing
of other project-related activities included in the Loan;
*   maintain appropriate accounts and supporting documentation for all expenditures for the
other project-related activities noted above;
*   prioritize technical assistance (TA) requirements and identify specific activities to be
supported for the sector and program future requirements;
*   coordinate, supervise, monitor and evaluate all TA activities under the Project, including
review and finalization of terms-of-reference (TOR), coordination of contract tendering and
selection of consultants;
e   in coordination with the CEL, ensure that audits of the Project Account, the CEL project-
related accounts, financial statements of PFIs and of the Rural Advisory Centers, are carried
out and submitted to the World Bank in accordance with the requirements detailed in the
Loan Agreement;
*   maintain files for each PFI containing summary information (Basic Data Sheets, etc.) for
sub-projects financed under the Project, and maintain data base on the lending operations of
PFIs, and on the status of the Subsidiary Loans to PFIs and the Loan Account;
* prepare, with inputs from PFIs, CEL and the Rural Advisory Centers, semi-annual progress
reports, in accordance with agreed reporting formats, and submit to the World Bank, MOA,
MOF, NBK and other Government agencies involved in Project implementation.



Page 35
Annex 3
KAZAKHSTAN - AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                            Local            Foreign          Total
-----------------------US$ million--------------------
A. Rural Advisory Centers                      0.93            1.07             2.00
B. Credit                                     13.04            6.42             19.45
C. Institutional Development                   0.05            0.40             0.45
D. Project Implementation Unit                 0.29            0.15             0.44
E. Refinancing PPF                            0.34             0.51             0.85
Total Baseline Cost                           14.65            8.54            23.19
Physical Contingencies                      0.11             0.11             0.22
Price Contingencies                         0.33             0.04             0.37
Total Project Cost                            15.09            8.69            23.78



Page 36
Annex 4
KAZAKHSTAN - AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
DESCRIPTION OF THE APPROACH
1.    Because of the demand driven nature of the project it is not possible to set outa priori the sub-
projects which will be financed through the line of credit. Thus the approach chosen for the financial and
economic analysis is to develop a series of farm and enterprise models typical of the farming situations in
the two project oblasts. Six models have been developed: (i) an arable farm of 8,000 ha in Akmola; (ii) a
mixed crop farm of 750 ha in Almaty; iii) a single suckling beef enterprise comprising 300 head; (iv) a
beef fattening enterprise of 600 head; (v) a dairy enterprise of 20 breeding cows; and (vi) a small 10
hectare farm supplying urban areas with vegetables.
2.    The major form of restructured farm in Akmola Oblast is expected to be an arable farm with a
gross area of 8,000 ha. Such a farm would currently be based upon a wheat, barley, fallow rotation but
following restructuring would convert to a wheat, wheat, fallow rotation. Wheat yields are assumed to
increase to 1.2 tones per hectare from their current level of 0.7 tonnes per hectare.
3.    In Almaty the predominant farm type is a mixed crop farm growing mainly wheat which accounts
for 68 percent of farm revenue. After restructuring, the importance of sugar beet is expected to increase
but wheat would still account for about 60 percent of total farm revenue. Yields on irrigated winter wheat
are expected to increase from 2.5 to 5 tons per ha once full yields are achieved after three years. The yield
of rain-fed winter wheat is expected to rise from 1.2 to 1.8 tons per ha over the same period.
4.    In terms of numbers, the small farm model supplying vegetables to urban areas is envisaged to be
the most common type of farm to be financed under the project.
5.    The models have been chosen following technical analysis and the likely impact of financial,
managerial, economic, logistical and social influences on the restructuring process. Each model compares
with and without situations and illustrates possible changes induced by the project on costs and
productivity. Overall economic analysis of the project is carried out by aggregating the farm and
enterprise models, based on an assumed distribution and phasing of sub-projects financed over the project
lifetime.
6.    No financial or economic analysis has been undertaken of individual components of the project
because of the integrated nature of the project. No single component is considered capable of making a
significant impact on farm restructuring and viability in isolation. All components are complementary and
would have a negligible impact in their own right.
7.    The monetary unit of value for the analysis was the US Dollar converted at the average exchange
rate prevailing in 1997. Prices for tradable commodities were derived by using World Bank projections
for the year 2005 in 1990 constant prices, using the G-5 manufacturing unit value indices for inflation
adjustment. Prices for non-traded goods were based on local market prices in mid-1997. All prices were



Page 37
further adjusted to the farm gate based on average transport charges. The adjustments for economic
analysis mainly reflect the removal of taxes and duties and the use of a standard conversion factor of 0.9
for domestic value added and non traded inputs and outputs. Impact of the project on markets and prices
are considered to be limited. Local markets exist for vegetables and processed meats, flour, breads and
pasta. National and international markets are expected to absorb the production of wheat, barley, milk,
and beef. The opportunity cost of capital was assumed to be 12 percent and given that most of the
investment was assumed to be for equipment a 10 year time horizon was adopted. The tables below show
the financial prices and yield assumptions with- and with-out the project used in the analysis.
Prices used in financial analysis (US$)
Crop                     Units                   Financial
Price
Wheat (grade 3)          mt                         105
Barley                   mt                         70
Sugar Beet               mt                         32
Potato                   mt                         107
Seed Maize               mt                         119
Lucerne                  mt                         53
Milk                     litres                     0.2
Beef                     kg                         0.83
Weaned Bull Calves       head                       127
Weaned Heifers           head                       126
Culled Cows              head                       256
Culled Bulls             head                       300
Carrots -early           mt                         240
Cabbage - early          mt                         200
Beetroot -early          mt                         160
Tomatoes                 mt                         107
Cucumbers                mt                         133
Aubergines               mt                         200
Peppers                  mt                         200
Beetroot (late)          mt                         67
Potatoes - small farm    mt                         133
Chinese Cabbage          mt                         100
Cauliflower              mt                         200
Cabbage (late)           mt                         67
Other green              mt                         160



Page 38
Yields used in analysis
Production                 Units            Without       With
project     project
conditions conditions*
Akmola Wheat               mt/ha                  0.70        1.20
Irrigated Winter Wheat     mt/ha                  2.50        5.00
(Almaty)
Rainfed Winter Wheat       mt/ha                  1.20        1.80
(Almaty)
Rainfed Spring Wheat       mt/ha                  0.90        1.40
(Almaty)
Rainfed Spring Barley      mt/ha                  1.00        2.00
(Almaty)
Sugar Beet                 mt/ha                 25.00       40.00
Potatoes                   mt/ha                 11.00       30.00
Seed Maize                 mt/ha                  2.50        4.00
Lucerne                    mt/ha                  6.00        8.00
Milk                      litres/90 head       144,000     240,000
herd
Beef                       kgs /600 head        66,000      67,500
herd
Weaned Bull Calves         head/50 breeding        20          23
cows
Weaned Heifers             head/50 breeding        20          22
cows
Culled Cows                head/50 breeding         12           8
cows
Culled Bulls               head/50 breeding          1           1
cows
* At full development
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
8.    The financial analysis concentrated on the financial viability of farm and enterprise sub-projects.
The IRR and NPV were calculated on the basis of cash flows and financial viability of representative
farm and enterprise models, under the project. All farm models show substantial increases in profits with
an IRR between 20 to 80% and NPVs from US$13,260 to US$222,700.



Page 39
FINANCIAL                           ECONOMIC
Model               NPV (US$ '000)       IRR %             NPV                 IRR
Akmola Arable            222.7             29             536.30                54
Almaty mixed              13.26            21             44.39                 37
Beef rearing              13.99            73              16.06                93
Beef fattening           60.73             76             60.73                 93
Dairy                    102.31            82             93.50                 92
Small farm               58.12             63             79.58                110
Sensitivity Analysis
9.     Sensitivity analysis was conducted to calculate the impact of a 10 percent reduction in output
prices and expected yields on the financial viability of the farm models. The financial viability of all
models except the Almaty mixed remain robust in face of price and yield changes. The results of the
sensitivity analysis for each of the individual models is outlined below.
FINANCIAL
BASE CASE           10% YIELD DECLINE    10% PRICE DECLINE
MODELS           NPV          IRR          NPV          IRR         NPV           IRR
(000)         %          (000)          %          (000)         %
Akmola Arable      222.7          29         17.50          16         28.5          17
Almaty Mixed        13.26         21        -17.82          5          -4.55         13
Beef Rearing        13.99         73           -            -          13.38          -
Beef Fattening      60.73         76         53.31         54          53.31         54
Dairy              102.31         82         81.54         71          88.74         75
Small Farms        58.12          63           -            -          25.63         34



Page 40
Switching Values
10.    Switching values were also calculated for each model for decreased benefit flows and increased
costs. All models were more sensitive to decreased benefit flows than they were to increased costs.
Switching Values at 12 percent
Decrease in Benefits    Increase in Investment   Increase in Operating
Costs                   Costs
Akmola Arable              -14                        56                       24
Almaty mixed                 -7                       29                       11
Beef rearing               -237                       739                    none
Beef fattening              -82                     5193                      194
Dairy                      -73                       471                     1773
Small farm                  -24                      155                       39
Impact on markets
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
11.   The economic analysis to arrive at an overall rate of return was conducted on the basis of an
assumed phased build up of farms as described in the table below. The figures represent the number of
farms entering the project in the given year.
Number of farms         year 1           Year 2            Year 3            Total
Akmola Arable                 2                6                 6               14
Almaty Mixed                  2                6                 12              20
Beef rearing                  1                1                 2                4
Beef fattening                1                1                 2                4
Dairy                         2                2                 4                8
Small farm                   25               35                40               100
The Results
12.   Based on assumptions about the distribution and phasing of sub-projects, the overall NPV for the
project is US$ 8.51 million and the IRR is 36.7 percent. The NPVs and IRRs for each of the farm models
are given below.
Sensitivity Analysis
13.   Economic sensitivity analysis was conducted in a similar way to the financial sensitivity analysis.
It generated the following results for each of the models:



Page 41
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
BASE CASE           10% YIELD DECLINE    10% PRICE DECLINE
MODELS          NPV          IRR         NPV          IRR         NPV          IRR
(000)        %          (000)         %          (000)         %
Akmola Arable      536.3         54         290.1        39         303.2         36
Almaty Mixed       44.39         37         10.51        21         25.44         28
Beef Rearing       16.06         93           -                      15.38        86
Beef Fattening     67.73        93          59.49        84         59.49         84
Dairy              93.50         92         74.81        77         81.29         82
Small Farms        79.58        110          -            -         47.55         63
Switching Values at 12 percent
Decrease in Benefits    Increase in Investment   Increase in Operating
Costs                   Costs
Akmola Arable             -27                      124                       55
Almaty mixed               -13                      54                       21
Beef rearing             -252                      708                     none
Beef fattening             -80                    4561                      170
Dairy                     -70                      406                     1530
Small farm                 -29                     203                       50
14.   At the project level economic viability is clearly a function of economic viability at the farm
level. It is also dependent to a certain extent on the number of farms participating in the project. Wheat
represents about 50 percent of the gross economic value of production of the project at full development.
Decreases in wheat yields or prices therefore represent a more significant risk than decreases in other
project outputs. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the project is sufficiently robust to withstand significant
reductions in the value of wheat production. Such reductions are considered to be unlikely to occur as
farms begin to capture an increasing share of the final wheat price as grain marketing becomes more
transparent and competitive.



Page 42
Annex 5
KAZAKHSTAN - AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.    Procurement of goods would be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August 1996, and
September 1997). Consulting services, technical assistance and training would be procured in accordance
with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January
1997, revised September 1997. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, Request for Proposals and
Forms of Consultants' Contract would be used. Goods and technical assistance to be financed by the
governmentlcofinanciers would be procured in accordance with the public procurement regulations or the
regulations and practices of each cofinancier. Since it is not intended to conduct sub-project appraisal in
advance, a table showing procurement arrangements has not been prepared. These procurement
arrangements (given in table 5A) would be revised, as necessary, for the subsequent phases of the
program.
Responsibility
2.    For sub-projects financed under the World Bank's credit line and executed by sub-borrowers,
procurement procedures would comply with those customary for operations through financial
intermnediaries. Procurement would be the responsibility of sub-borrowers who would have access to
technical assistance in this work from PFIs and PIU. The PIU would have at least one experienced
procurement officer fully trained in procurement under Bank-financed projects. A project launch
workshop would be held in August 1998, close to effectiveness. The project launch workshop would
include training sessions on procurement specifically for the staff of the PIU, Advisory Centers, and the
PFIs. The PIU would be responsible for ensuring that the PFIs and sub-borrowers adhere to Bank
procurement guidelines.
Methods
3.    Goods. Funds from the credit line (US$12.28 million) would be utilized by a large number of
sub-borrowers for procuring various sizes of goods, equipment, civil works, and on-site technical
assistance. The majority of sub-loans are expected to be less than US$500,000 equivalent for a large
number of individual borrowers. The review of sub-loans would be based on the procedures described in
Annex 2, para. 16. Also due to the variety of goods to be procured, grouping or orders in bid packages
would not possible. Goods expected to be procured and financed under the project would include
agricultural machinery, livestock, building materials, processing equipment, seeds, fertilizer, pesticides,
and other farm inputs.
4.    In order to allow sub-borrowers the use of commercial practices in procurement of goods, the
Bank has reviewed the procurement practices in Kazakhstan and has determined that reasonably
acceptable commercial practices are applied by the private sector and that Kazakh farns do seek
competitive prices from different suppliers. However, due to the lack of economic activity, such
practices are still uneven and irregular so that additional strengthening of competitive and transparent



Page 43
procurement practices is desirable. Therefore, for the credit line, the following methods would be used:
Annex 5A: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)
Credit Line                                                                       18.14                       18.14
(12.29)                     (12.29)
Goods
Equipment                                                                     0.09          0.09
Vehicles                                                       0.030          0.18          0.21
(0.030)           -         (0.030)
Consultancies                                                                                    1.98          1.98
and Technical
Assistance
Management Advisory                                            0.120                       0.120
Services for Farms                                            (0.120)                     (0.120)
Preparation of Legislation                                      0.31                        0.31
on Liquidation                                                 (0.31)                      (0.31)
Agricultural Collateral                                         0.15                        0.15
Development                                                    (0.15)                      (0.15)
Management and Operation                                        0.56                        0.56
of Information and                                             (0.56)                      (0.56)
Advisory Services Center
PIU Advisory Services                                           0.15                        0.15
(0.15)                      (0.15)
Miscellaneous
PPF                                                             0.85                        0.85
(0.85)                      (0.85)
4.2                Recurrent Costs                                                 0.51          0.68          1.19
(0.51)           -          (0.51)
Note:
Figures may vary due to rounding
Vehicles (estimated to cost US$30,000) would be procured through National Shopping.
Consulting services would be procured through QCBS (except for the contract extension for Management and operation of information and
Advisory Services Center and PIU advisory services)
The project includes US$514,000 to meet the operational costs, salaries of locally recruited consultants for the PIU, and advisory centers, rent,
consumables, communications, etc.
The PPF of US$854,000: (i) diagnostic studies of the PFI's ($ 37,000); (ii) US$526,000 for establishment of the rural advisory services
including US$80,000 for recurrent costs (staff salaries (locally recruited consultants), rent and consumables), US$56,000 for vehicles and
equipment, and US$390,000 for technical assistance, information, and training; and (iii) US$291,000 for establishment of the Project
Implementation Unit, including US$52,000 for vehicles and equipment, US$47,000 for recurrent costs, and US$192,000 for technical assistance
and training.



Page 44
(a)    goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than US$20,000 per contract, would be
procured in accordance with normal commercial procurement practices followed by sub-
borrowers;
(b)    goods which are available from a limited number of suppliers (such as harvesters) would
be procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB) in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. The list of suppliers as well as the bidding
documents will be cleared by the Bank;
(c)    goods valued up to US$100,000 per contract would be procured through National
Shopping (NS) - this method is feasible because of the availability of the required goods
in the country itself;
(d)    goods contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$300,000, International
Shopping (IS) would be used. After a review of of the competitive environment in the
private sector (including agriculture) is completed, the Bank would review IS threshold.
(e)    direct contracting may be used in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines and with the Bank's prior approval, for proprietary items and those available
only from a single supplier.
5.    ICB would be used for contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more per
contract. For ICB, the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods would be used.
6.    The Information and Advisory Services Component includes procurement of two vehicles
(US$30,000). These would be procured through National Shopping.
7.    Consultant Services. The Project includes technical assistance as follows:
(1)    Management advisory services to farms up to an aggregate amount of US$120,000, to be
contracted on an individual basis (12 to 24 contracts estimated to cost US$5,000 to
US$10,000 each) by the PIU to assist farmers through Advisory Centers as described in
paragraph five of Annex 2 and will be contracted in accordance with provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
(2)    Consultant services and training on use of bankruptcy procedures for agriculture
enterprises estimated to cost US$306,000, to be procured through QCBS procedures.
(3)    Consultant services for development of a legislation on use of agricultural commodities
as collateral estimated to cost US$145,000 to be procured through QCBS procedures.
(4)    Management and operation of Information and Advisory Services Centers estimated to
cost US$390, 000 will be awarded under the PPF funding through QCBS procedures.
The extension of this contract as described in Annex 2, para 6, and estimated to cost
US$560,000 will be funded by the loan. Therefore, the procurement plan identifies sole-
source as a method for this contract. However, if the selection of the consultant for the
first phase (under the PPF) is not completed before the loan effectiveness the services
(for the whole contract of US$910,000) will be procured on the basis of QCBS
procedures.



Page 45
(5)    Advisory services including project, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation
advisors to PIU estimated to cost US$145,000, are provided for the extension of the
contract to be carried out under the PPF funding (US$152,000). This contract would be
awarded on the basis of QCBS procedures by the PIU to assist with the coordination of
the sub-components as described Annexes 2, para. 21. In the procurement plan this
contract is identified a contract to be procured on the sole-source basis, however if the
selection of the consultant for the first phase (under the PPF) is not completed before the
loan effectiveness the services will be procured on the basis of QCBS procedures.
8.    Recurrent Costs. The project includes US$514,000 to meet the operational costs, salaries of
locally recruited consultants for the PIU, and advisory centers, rent, consumables, communications, etc.
These would be procured in accordance with an annual budget to be approved by the Bank.
9.    PPF.  The PPF of US$854,000 includes financing for (i) diagnostic studies of the PFI's ($
37,000); (ii) US$526,000 for establishment of the rural advisory services including US$80,000 for
recurrent costs (staff salaries (locally recruited consultants), rent and consumables), US$56,000 for
vehicles and equipment, and US$390,000 for technical assistance, information, and training; and (iii)
US$291,000 for establishment of the Project Implementation Unit, including US$52,000 for vehicles and
equipment, US$47,000 for recurrent costs, and US$192,000 for technical assistance and training.
Prior Review
10.   The first contract under the first three sub-project, regardless of procurement method or the
value, and all ICB, direct contracting and sole-source contracts would be subject to prior review by the
Bank. In addition, each PFIs would be required to submit to the Bank its first three sub-loans and any
sub-loans above the prior-review thresholds. All sub-loans would include a summary procurement table,
showing description of goods and works to be procured, procurement methods to be applied, and a
procurement timetable.
11.   With respect to Services, prior Bank review would be required for all terms of reference,
irrespective of the contract value. Contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000 would be subject
to Bank's prior review (the Bank would review the Request for Proposals, the terms of reference and
short-list). For each contract estimated to cost US$200,000 or more, after the technical proposal has been
evaluated, the technical evaluation report would be submitted to the Bank for its review prior to the
opening of the priced proposals. For contracts estimated to cost between US$100,000 and US$ 200,000
the Bank would be notified of the results of the technical evaluation prior to the opening of the financial
proposals. For contracts with individual consultants costing US$25,000 or more the qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by the Bank.
Disbursement
12.   Disbursements would be administered by the MOF in coordination with the PIU. The PIU would
collect and compile the necessary documentation for withdrawal of the funds from the credit line from the
PFIs. The proposed Bank loan of US$15 million would be disbursed over a period of three years with the
expected project closing date of February 28, 2002.



Page 46
13.   Disbursement Ratios.  The maximum amount to be withdrawn by the borrower and made
available to the PFIs would be as follows: 100 percent of eligible sub-loans approved in the first 12
months and 80 percent of eligible sub-loans approved in the remaining period of project implementation.
For the purpose of applying the disbursement percentages, the first 12 months represent the period
beginning on the dates that each of the PFIs have signed their first sub-loan after the project becomes
effective. These disbursement ratios are justified because some of the financial intermediaries expected
to participate in the project would not be in a position to raise internal long-term resources at the
inception of their lending operations under the project, and because some already existing institutions are
in the process of building up their capital base. With the build-up of equity and with other funds
becoming available during project implementation, the intermediaries' share would gradually increase up
to at least 20 percent of sub-loan amounts to be approved. Agreement would be sought during
negotiations that the disbursement percentages would be stipulated in the subsidiary loan agreements to
be signed between the Borrower and each PFI. Disbursements for the TA component would follow
donors' own regulations.
14.   Statement of Expenditures. Disbursements would be made against Statement of Expenditures
(SOE) for expenditures under contracts costing less then US$300,000 equivalent for goods under the
Credit Component (category 3), US$25,000 equivalent for services of individual consultants, and
US$100,000 equivalent for services of consulting firms for which detailed documents evidencing
expenditures will be reviewed and kept by the CEL and made available for the required audit as well as to
Bank supervision missions. The minimum application size for directpayments will be 20 percent of the
current amount of authorized allocations to the Special account.
15.   Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special
Account in one of the major commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover
the Bank's share of expenditures. The initial allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US$
1.0 million. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the Loan have reached the level of US$3
million, the Authorized Allocation could be increased to US$1.5 million (the maximum amount
authorized) by submitting the relevant Application for withdrawal. Applications for replenishment of the
Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn,
whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow the standard Bank
procedures. The terms and conditions of the establishment and operation of the Special Account would
be agreed upon at negotiations.
16.   Retroactive Financing. An agreement would be sought at negotiations that up to US$1.5
million would be financed retroactively for eligible sub-loans approved and disbursed by PFIs starting
from March 1, 1998, provided all lending criteria and procurement guidelines were followed. Retroactive
financing would be justified since: (a) PFIs under considerations are active in lending but lack long-term
credit sources; (b) training program for PFIs is already in place, and several potential investment
proposals submitted during project preparation are under review. Evaluation of these proposals, although
not guaranteed to receive credit through the Bank loan, would provide important training opportunities.



Page 47
Annex 5B: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category               Amount in          Financing Percentage
US$million
1. Consultancy Services, Studies, and Training    1.19         100%
2. Goods                                          0.02          100% of foreign
expenditure, 100% of national
expenditure (ex factory cost)
and 80% of national
expenditures for other items
procured nationally.
3. Sub-loans                                     12.29        100%  for the first project
year; 80% for the rest of the
project years
4. Recurrent Costs                                0.36          100%
5. PPF                                            0.85
6. Unallocated                                    0.29
Total                                          15.00



Page 48
Annex 6
KAZAKHSTAN - AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Summary of Social Assessment
A.    Purpose and Issues
1.    A Social Assessment (SA) can contribute to the design and implementation of projects and
programs in a number of ways. Ultimately, an SA serves to bring the voice of stakeholders into the
design and implementation process, especially vulnerable and otherwise overlooked stakeholders, and to
develop mechanisms that enable them to influence critical decisions about the project or program. More
concretely, an SA generally aims to:
*   identify key stakeholders and their respective stakes;
*   develop mechanisms to engage them in design and implementation processes;
*   devise methods to overcome constraints to their participation;
*   ensure that project elements are appropriate and culturally and socially compatible;
*   assess the capability of participating institutions to accomplish project objectives; and
*   propose actions to increase the capability of institutions to function as needed.
2.    SAs range from simple qualitative inquires to complex programs using a variety of social science
methods, depending on project needs and the time and financial resources available. Each SA is tailored
to the content and scope of a proposed project, as well as the initial level of knowledge about the target
area and stakeholders. Project issues thus determine the objectives and content of an SA. The SA may
focus on generating new information about the project context; on assessing attitudes and existing social
patterns; on testing hypotheses of various types or determining preferences; on estimating willingness and
ability to pay; or on various combinations of the above.
3.    The SA for the Agricultural Post-privatization Support Project concentrated primarily on issues
related to farm privatization and restructuring. It was designed to build on the SA undertaken in 1995 for
the Irrigation and Drainage Improvement Project (IDIP), which also focused on privatization and
restructuring. The earlier study looked at the management status of about 30 state and collective farms in
10 oblasts, possible candidates for inclusion in the project, some of which were already privatized.
People on a sub-sample of ten farms in five oblasts were included in more in-depth socio-economic
analysis; and additional qualitative inquiries were carried out on a sub-set of five of the ten sites.
4.    The IDIP SA revealed great variation in the management structure of farms that were privatized
or about to be privatized, and very little restructuring, except in South Kazakhstan Oblast, a very low
level of knowledge about the privatization process and options; high levels of uncertainty and
apprehension regarding family economic status; and evidence of the concentration of land and property
shares in the hands of farm managers, essentially disenfranchising farm workers of their shares in the
new farm enterprises. At the same time, however, it also appeared that the role of farm manager might be
in the process of changing in response to the new ownership patterns. Based on the results of the SA, the
project adopted a four-step process which requires major decisions affecting the design, cost and
repayment of project investments to be made by a general assembly of farm shareholders.



Page 49
5.    The Agricultural Post-privatization Support SA focused on patterns of farm privatization and
restructuring and current status in two oblasts--Akmola and Taldy-Korgan--particularly on the issues of
equity, transparency; accessibility and information; the impact of privatization and restructuring on
farmers' incomes and attitudes; perceived needs, aspirations, constraints and opportunities for improved
family welfare; communication needs and patterns; the influence of the main farms, and farm managers,
on the everyday activities and future prospects of independent (peasant) farmers; and the need for
professional financial and management advice and willingness to pay for it. The principal objective of
the SA was to understand the roles and status of different stakeholders in the privatization and
restructuring process, ranging from farm workers and independent farmers to farm managers, input
suppliers, buyers, oblast and raion officials, and others, and to identify ways to maximize benefits and to
mitigate possible negative impacts of the project.
B.    Methodology and Limitations
6.    The purpose of the SA was to ascertain the extent to which the rural population of Akmola and
Taldy-Korgan Oblasts are involved in the privatization and restructuring processes; the reaction of
independent farmers and workers in agricultural enterprises to economic changes underway; and the real
socio-economic situation that has emerged as the result of agricultural reforms. Three social research
methods were used in the study:
* a socio-economic survey of 600 households (farm workers and independent farmers.);
*   100 in-depth interviews of managers of the heads of the base farms (the large remnants of
former collective and state farms); managers of procurement, marketing and consulting
organizations; managers of agricultural processing and storing enterprises; and officials of
raion and oblast agriculture departments;
*   14 focus group discussions with farm workers, heads of the base farms, and independent
farmers.
7.    Household Survey. The survey was carried out in 20 settlements located in seven raions, using a
stratified random sample of independent farmers and farm workers. The raions were selected according
to distance from the oblast center (near, middle and distant); settlements were chosen to reflect a variety
of farm management structures and specialization. The sample sites were located as follows:
Oblast           Raion        No. of Settlements
Akmola          Atabasarky                3
Astrakhansky             3
Vishnevsky               1
Tselinogradsky           3
Taldy-Korgan    Karatalsky                4
Koksusky                 3
Sarkandsky               3
8.    Sample households were selected on a random basis. One respondent was selected in each
sample household who met the criteria of being over 18 years of age and directly engaged in agricultural
production. Social workers (doctors, teachers, and so on) and employees of the farm administration were
excluded. For the purpose of conducting more rigorous statistical analysis, the sample include 10
percent peasant farmers, who actually represent between 4 percent and 6 percent of the rural population.
The final sample included 538 farm workers and 62 independent farmers.



Page 50
9.    In-Depth Interviews. In each oblast, in-depth interviews were held with 30 farm managers and
20 others in the agricultural
sector.   Farm   managers                  Tr         Sehd ng Sts of hsnde
included   Directors   or
Chairmen of Boards of joint                     V\, l
stock          companies,                        FaM bb
partnerships and production          FamVA            40%
cooperatives, their Deputies,    Fdrqidh                            PaTr
Chief  Accountants,  and                 180/     _
Senior Specialists.    The
remainder  consisted   of           Faim,Wmirw Not                FamV*Wvth
managers    or    senior             GvenSha
employees of other groups in           160/o a!%
the   agricultural  sector,
approximately evenly distributed between the sample raions and oblasts.
10.   Focus-Groups. Seven focus groups discussions were held in each of the two oblasts in the area
covered by the household survey: four with workers in the base farms; two with independent farmers;
and one with heads of agricultural enterprises.
11.   Implementation. The SA was carried out by members of the Kazakhstan Social Science
Network under the leadership of Bilesim International Kazakhstan, a marketing research firm, with the
support of colleagues in the Academy of Sciences and other academic institutions in Almaty, Akmola and
Taldy-Korgan. The survey and in-depth interviews were completed in March and April, 1997, followed
by the focus group discussions in late April. Based on the terms of reference, draft questionnaires and
semi-structured interview guides provided by a World Bank Senior Social Scientist, Bilesim International
Kazakhstan finalized the survey instruments, developed the sampling frame, managed field
implementation, coded and analyzed the data and prepared reports in Russian and English, which were
subsequently translated into Kazak, as well.
12.   The SA was undertaken during a period of active change, which quickly rendered some of the
data incomplete. Subsequent to the completion of field work, Taldy-Korgan Oblast was absorbed by
Almaty Oblast and Akmola Oblast absorbed most of Kokshetau Oblast. A decision was made not to re-
start the process to cover the former Almaty Oblast, however, thus the data only apply to part of the
current Almaty Oblast. In addition, high officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and Oblast Agriculture
Departments carried out an intensive infonnation campaign during the time of field implementation of the
SA, and thereafter, which aimed to inform farmn managers and workers of various privatization options.
The purpose of the campaign was to promote the identification of "True Farmers" who would manage
agricultural assets so as to revitalize the sector, and to get farms to reorganize their management
structures to be in conformity with the new Civil Code. As the result of the campaign, a great number of
farmers in each of the two oblasts took their land shares and broke away from the base farms to start their
own independent farms. Given the fact that the focus of the SA was essentially a constantly changing,
moving target, some data must be interpreted with special care. Nonetheless, the multi-method design of
the SA generated data that are robust, thus ensuring that the major conclusions and recommendations of
the study are well grounded.



Page 51
C.    Principal Findings
13.    Overall, the SA revealed a high level of dissatisfaction and discontent among people in the two
oblasts, and growing impoverishment. Except for farm managers and independent farmers, most farm
workers are also pessimistic about the future. Privatization is seen as an imposition, a government policy
that ultimately benefited farmn managers and officials alone. Most respondents feel poorly informed, cash
poor and vulnerable.
Privatization
14.   Privatization and restructuring trends in Akmola
and Taldy-Korgan Oblasts have both similarities and         AreYouSatisfiedWithPrivatization?
differences. In 1992, in both oblasts, state farms were        I independent Farmers EFarm Workers
transformed into collective agricultural enterprises, the                     45%
managerial structure of which remained unchanged on                _   7
the district and oblast levels. At this stage, privatization  Rather      %
was largely a formality without much significance in    Dissatisfied 13%
day-to-day life. During 1994 and 1995, great numbers       Yea,          %
of these  collective  agricultural  enterprises  were     Satisfied     %
transformed into private enterprises of various types. At      0%   20%  40%   60%
this point, farm members were officially allocated land
and property (capital stock) shares, related to their length
of service. After the adoption of the Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan in 1996, all economic
enterprises were required to be re-registered in a recognized form. As the Civil Code did not recognize
such formerly widespread entities as "collective enterprises" and "private enterprises," they had to
change their management structures to conform to the Civil Code. Practically all recognized forms of
legal entities can be found in each oblast. The most prevalent form is the production cooperative; joint-
stock companies are somewhat less common; and partnerships are the least common form. The results of
the study do not allow us to assert whether one form is more or less effective than another. The few
advanced enterprises that successfully adapted to new economic relations are found among partnerships,
joint stock companies and production and agricultural cooperatives.  Joint stock companies with
predominately State participation demonstrate obvious inefficiencies. For some time, state stockholdings
were supposed to be sold, but buyers were not always found. In Akmola Oblast, in contrast to Taldy-
Korgan Oblast, there has been very little restructuring of the base farms. Commodity partnerships are
becoming more prevalent in Akmola, but we
did not find this form in Taldy-Korgan Oblast.     What Did You Do With Your Landshare?
In   Taldy-Korgan   Oblast,  especially  in           Other, n.a.   Sold
Sarkandsky District, many small farms were              14%,      10%   Gave Away
formed with different legal status.  In this                                %
district, the process of establishing peasant
farms  was  also  much  more  intensive.                                     Transferred
Commonly, they are large privately-owned                                       73%
farms with 100 or more workers that were set
up on the basis of work teams (brigades) and branches of former state farms.



Page 52
15.   The survey revealed clearly that the
privatization process in Kazakhstan was                  FImthBmPFEm?
developed and carried out without a broad
social base, and with little effort to informrad                                      t
rural people of their opportunities and   NdFy
responsibilities.  The inhabitants of the   g                                     3y%
villages surveyed are poorly informed about    33D/O       -                  N
economic and legal aspects of privatization                                    37Ndy
and their rights and opportunities. Twenty-
nine percent of the respondents said that
privatization options and implications were never discussed with them, and 39 percent say they do not
know what it means. Interviews with farm managers indicated that land and property shares in Akmola
and Taldy-Korgan were allocated to workers according to standard methods common to the whole
republic. In this case, "allocation" means the assignment of land and property shares to individuals
according to a fornula set for each farm, without reference to specific land or property. We found no
significant local peculiarities in this process. In neither oblast, however, was the right to obtain shares
translated into practice. The actual land share certificates were generally not distributed to the new
"owners." Rather, they are kept in the offices of the base farms. We found no cases in which property
shares were distributed outright to members. Two- thirds of the respondents who separated from the base
farms were unable to obtain their property shares because of one or another excuse. Because farm
members generally received promises of ownership, rather than concrete proof, this privatization did not
significantly change the status of the farms or their workers. Consequently, a major part of the rural
population still considers privatization to be merely a formal act. They do not understand the potential
value of their land and property shares, and do not really consider themselves to be joint owners of
former State property. A final consideration is the reallocation of the land and property shares of former
farm members that repatriated to Germany, Russia, Ukraine and other countries after independence. The
importance of this reallocation process, and its impact on equitable distribution of farm resources, varies
from one farm to another, depending on the previous ethnic composition of the farm. If the process was
concluded without transparency, it could be manipulated by farm managers to undermine the principle of
principle of equitable distribution.
16.   As indicated above, privatization has
passed through a number of stages in the two
oblasts and farms can be expected to continue       Other, n.a.
to change over time.  The current stage               4%                   Base Farm
appears to be that of the consolidation of    Someone in                     70%
ownership.  Starting in 1994, privatization     Village
went beyond the merely formal stage to actual    3%
changes in rural organization.  This is a             Fa
complex phenomenon  prompted to  some                 2
degree by the decrees and legislative acts of
1994. One decree that was in effect for part of
a year before it was rescinded by Parliament, gave a big share of the land of former state farms to the
heads of farms if they have 20 years of service. In some cases, this may have prompted the managers to
acquire additional shares, but the extent to which the decree was implemented is not well-documented.
More than 20 percent of the sample of farm workers have transferred their land shares to someone else,
and sometimes their property shares, as well. In 75 percent of the cases, the transfer occurred free of
charge. Formally, such transfers are considered to be voluntary; but the survey revealed that compulsion,
blackmail and fraud quite often are involved in the process. The most common ploy seems to be for



Page 53
managers to promise to pay wages once farm members transfer their shares to them, or they threaten to
fire farm members who do not comply.
Consolidation
17.   In short, a process is taking place in which managers of some base farms are getting workers to
transfer land and property rights to them, either temporarily or permanently, and the number of people
who possess land use rights and private property appears to be decreasing. As the catalysts and bearers
of new economic relation in the countryside, the "new landowners" in many cases, farm managers are the
principal supporters of further development of private ownership in the countryside. Independent
farmers, owners of peasant farms, also support the processes, but to a lesser extent. Among the
employees of base farns, technical specialists view the new economic relationships more positively than
do other categories of employees. Typically, workers on base farms have the most negative attitude
towards privatization. Workers also have the most precarious and uncertain position, as many have either
been deprived of their land shares or leased them under conditions that are ill-defined or clearly
disadvantageous to them.
18.    The overwhelming majority of respondents in            Who Benefit From Privatzation?
the survey and participants in the focus-groups,               W
assess the results of privatization negatively. They   Nobody  5
associate the drastic decrease in production and      Busires  6%
standards of living with changes in the forms of
ownership and economic management, which they         EverybodJ 7
believe benefited officials and managers.  They  Local, Raion, Otia 0
would like to bring back the collective/state farm  O&oials
system (79 percent), without expecting it to occur (67  Forme rFarm                 72%
percent), and they expect further decreases in            0% 10 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80%
agricultural economic indicators and living standards
in the countryside. Despite this, a considerable number of respondents and participants in the focus-
groups do not completely repudiate the objectives of the privatization policy, as such; rather, they
disagree with the speed and methods used to implement the policy.
Income
19.     Such negative assessments and forecasts are not surprising, although many of the economic
impacts respondents ascribe to privatization are part of the general decline in agriculture that resulted
from the collapse of the soviet system and most of the institutions in agricultural and industrial sectors.
Family income decreased in more than 75 percent of the households surveyed and 45 percent stated that
their income decreased significantly. Chronic non-payment of wages for months and even years has not
been compensated by alternative income sources. Wages still remain the principal source of income for
more than a half of the independent farmers who broke away from the base farms, as well as those who
remained on the base farms. Virtually all families rely on their home gardens and animal production for
subsistence. Less than 10 percent of the sample households have some stable income from business
and/or land and property shares. About one-third of the households obtain some income by selling
products from their small home gardens. Many respondents therefore say they did not benefit from the
transition to a market economy. Indeed, rather than feeling like capitalists, they feel that they are
experiencing war-time communism again, when wages were paid in kind and important commodities
were rationed. For example, residents of Akmola Oblast currently hold ration cards that enable them to
buy bread and they suffer from the constant irregularity of the electric power supply, which deprives



Page 54
them of elementary aspects of modem life to which they were accustomed under the former regime.
Status of Independent Farms
What Prompted You To Create an
20.     The majority of the owners of new peasant               Independent Farm?
farms face major difficulties.  Most independent                   Other
farms are not specialized; they grow a mixture of    Challenge Myself   14%    Independence
crops, with field crops predominating. Thirty-nine       3%               9       41%
percent of the farms also raise livestock. Practically   Increase Standard
no farms are engaged in processing agricultural       of Living 18%
products or providing services. In production levels                 Farmn 24%
and financial status peasant farms that were created
between 1991 and 1993, before the mass privatization period (17 percent of independent farms in our
sample), considerably surpass the farms that separated after 1993. The technologies used on most farms
are simple, if not primitive, due to the fact that it is virtually impossible to acquire machinery, and
because of the high prices of spare parts, fuel and fertilizers. Indeed, independent farmers reported the
lack of equipment and spare parts as their main difficulty (69 percent) in operating their farms, followed
by working capital for fuel, lubricants and inputs (37 percent). One of the biggest motivations for people
to separate from the base farm is desperation, the desire to escape the collapse of the base farm. This
contrasts markedly with the earlier period, in which the main stimulus to separate was the aspiration to be
independent.
21.     About 20 percent of the independent farmer respondents said that they were able to make a
profit during the 1996 agricultural season and 42 percent broke even. Forty percent of the independent
farmers said their tax burden was between 20 percent and 40 percent of their profits; and 33 percent said
that taxes claimed more than 40 percent of profit. Despite the serious challenges they face, only 5 percent
of the independent farmers in the sample said that they had tried to return to the base farm, and a similar
number said they would like to sell their land. About 55 percent of independent farmers, however, would
like to expand their farms, but they are prevented from doing so because of a lack of capital and credit
(68 percent). Almost a quarter of the independent farms report that the base farm administration
complicates their work, primarily by arbitrarily limiting access to land, machinery and property.
Status of Base Farms
22.     In most base farms, economic indicators have also sharply decreased. Farm debt has increased
steadily. Few farms have capital for investment, let along maintenance, thus existing capital stock is
practically depleted. Potential profits are used to maintain social infrastructure or to repay debts. Barter
dominates everywhere. In most farms practically all products are exchanged for spare parts and fuel.
Livestock has been the main "currency" for barter, as a result of which livestock on base farms has been
reduced drastically. This process was compensated to a certain extent by an increase in livestock
production on private subsidiary and peasant farms. However, at present, a very significant number of
these farms no longer have livestock. Barter has greatly increased transaction costs and slowed the
development of market relations in the countryside.  Respondents who work on base farms
overwhelmingly said that their farms are unprofitable (71 percent). Sixteen percent said their farms
broke even and 11 percent said the farms are profitable.



Page 55
23.     Despite the efforts of farm managers to aggregate and consolidate land and property shares, it is
likely  that  the   number   of
independent farms will continue to             Farm Problems (Responses of Farm Workers)
increase over time.   Twenty-one
percent of the workers of the base         No SPeciallsts   11
farms would like to separate from        No Drinking Water  1%
the farm  and start their own farms,      Poor Education  17%
but 53 percent said they would like    BadFarmManag ean      22%
to become independent if they had            Noere             27%
access to capital and credit. Lack of     Unemproment               3%
money (78 percent) and lack of                 Prices P0%
Poor Technical Assistance              53%
machinery (13 percent) were cited as
principal reasons for remaining on     OofWate M62%
the base farn.  The farm workers       Shortageo gectrsct                             74%
who do not want to be independent   Nonn-Payment of Wage  _%
said they had no funds (71 percent)              0%  10%  20%  50%  40%  50%  60%  7C%  80%
or no experience (25 percent) that
would enable them to separate. They
are also discouraged from separating by the administration of the base farrns. When respondents were
asked if they had the opportunity to take their land and property shares and start an independent farm,
almost a third said they had no such opportunity. This latter response is due both to the lack of
information available to farm members and to the perception by farm workers that farm managers have
the power to constrain their access to resources
24.   In the in-depth interviews, the majority of the heads of the base farms stated that they no longer
receive orders from officials of the district and oblast administrations. The majority of independent
farmers said that the base farmns do not restrict their rights either. Currently, farn enterprises are
independent, and they get no real assistance from the State or its structures.
Credit
25.     Neither base nor independent farms can obtain credit. State and semi-state banks do not give
credit to unprofitable farms, and private banks are not familiar with lending to agriculture and view it as
too high cost and risky. Similarly, farm managers and independent farmers believe that commercial
interest rates are prohibitive. Most farms in the sample have not obtained credit over the last two years.
Nonetheless, in focus groups and interviews, the heads of base farrns said they badly need credit, and 40
percent of respondents in the household survey said they wanted to obtain loans. Of those who want
loans, 55 percent said they are most likely to approach the State bank for a loan, or another state
institution (17 percent). Of the small number of respondents who had obtained loans, 65 percent said
they got it from the State Bank, 17 percent from an individual and 9 percent from a commercial bank.
Independent farmers who said they want credit have priorities for the use of the funds that are slightly
different from the priorities of base farm managers. Workers gave highest priority to buying and
repairing machinery, but independent farmers said they needed working capital to buy inputs and spare
parts. Respondents overall said that they were most likely to find out about how to obtain a loan through
informal channels, friends, neighbors, relatives and acquaintances (52 percent), or from the media,
newspapers television and such. Those who have obtained loans, however, actually obtain information
primarily through the media (49 percent), rather than through informal channels (30 percent). Survey
respondents and participants in the focus-groups indicated little understanding of the concept of
collateral. Of those who obtained loans, 48 percent signed a personal contract, 30 percent had another



Page 56
guarantor and 22 percent provided land as collateral. Respondents overall expect to sign a contract (65
percent) or provide land as collateral (33 percent).
What Would You Do With a Loan?
Farm Workers               Independent Farmers
Buy and repair machinery         67%                           48%
Buy inputs, spare parts          44%                            57%
Buy land                         33%                            4%
Construct a building              13%                           35%
Farmer Associations
26.    The owners of independent farms would
like to join or create associations to solve different    Would You Like To Belong to a Farmers
production, financial and social problems. Fifty-five       Association?
percent said they would like to join peasant farm         Already a Membe 2%
associations. However, they do not have the financial  No                  Yes
resources needed to organize such associations, and    43%                55%
they know of no groups that can help them organize.           _
Social Infrastructure
27.     Social infrastructure in the countryside has sharply decreased. Cultural and Social centers have
vanished and kindergartens were closed everywhere. Schools are also consolidating as farm managers
decide to reduce their social overhead costs. Some settlements now are without schools and in other
areas, such as in Taldy-Korgan, the schools are closed during the coldest winter months to reduce
operating expenses. Seventy-seven percent of respondents confirmed that medical services now require
payment, at least in part, and 26 percent said that they pay some of the costs of education. Participants in
focus groups expressed concern about the future of clinics and schools. They know that social
infrastructure has been transferred to the local administration, at least on paper, but the lack of budget
prevents the administration from assuming responsibility for schools and clinics.
Consultancy Services
28.   In the districts surveyed in Akmola Oblast there are no financial or management consulting
services available to farmers and farm managers. In Taldy-Korgan Oblast, the oblast agricultural
administration established a marketing-consulting center which, however, has yet to demonstrate results.
Farm managers, independent farmers and farm workers all seek advice, nonetheless. Practically all heads
of the base farms and about half of the independent farmers in the survey regularly seek advice from
specialists (non-professional consultants), particularly for technical advice related to production. When
asked what type of advice they need most, respondents gave priority to financial (42 percent), legal (37
percent) and marketing advice (18 percent). Fifteen percent of those who seek advice pay for it, but 56
percent indicated a willingness to pay for advisory services. Most respondents said that they would
welcome the creation of special consulting services. Participants in focus groups also said they would
like to receive advisory services, but requested that such services be free until the farms become
profitable.



Page 57
Information Patterns
29.   According to respondents in the household survey, friends, neighbors and acquaintances are the
most common source of information regarding farming issues (62 percent), followed by radio and
television (40 percent) and newspapers (29 percent). As indicated above, those who want to receive
loans get information from a broader array of sources: friends and neighbors (52 percent); newspapers,
radio and television (43 percent); and the base farm administration (13 percent). Participants in focus
group discussions indicated that the choice of information sources is very limited and irregular. Media
exposure is limited by electricity shortages, particularly during the winter, thus radio and television are
undependable information sources which devote too little time to rural problems. Newspapers are
considered to be expensive, thus one paper may get passed to several families, but standard newspapers,
too, devote very little attention to rural problems. In short, it is clear that hierarchy of information
sources indicated above reflects chance, rather than choice.
D.    Project Implications
30.   The findings of the SA have a number of implications for the design of a project intended to help
farmers in the aftermath of privatization and restructuring. They can be summarized as seven simple
directives.
31.   Spread Information Widely. Too many rural people are still poorly informed about the
privatization process, their rights and options and implications for their future. Without adequate
information, they remain unable to protect their own interests. Project implementation will therefore be
preceded by an intense public information campaign that covers the following topics in clear,
understandable language: privatization and restructuring options; rights and responsibilities of farm
managers and members in corporate farms of different types; characteristics of profitable base farms;
opportunities and constraints in independent farming; farm management principles, including accounting;
and production, marketing, processing and relative profitability of different major crops. Drawing on
materials prepared under the IDIP, and experience gained in the IDIP, the information will be presented
in simple, but not simplistic formats, probably consisting of different brochures. Distribution will be
widespread in the target oblasts, designed to reach all members of farms, as managers cannot be counted
upon to pass out information that might limit their opportunities. Until farm members are well-informed,
they remain subject to manipulation by managers.
31.   Regularize Landshare Transfer and Lease Arrangements.   Many farm members have
transferred, sold or leased their landshares under arrangements that are open-ended, without specifying
the reciprocal rights and responsibilities of the farns and farmer managers, and without bringing real
benefits to the people who relinquished their shares, either temporarily or permanently. Before project
funds are made available to any corporate farm, farm members will be informed of their rights and
options, and an assessment will be made of the status of shareholdings. If it is determined that transfers
have occurred through coercion, this must be rectified before a farm can be eligible for a loan. This
means that transfers must be re-negotiated; lease arrangements must be regularized; and the re-allocation
of shares must be carried out publicly and transparently to ensure equity.
32.   Promote Flexible, Dynamic Arrangements Between Shareholders. An uncertain numbers of
farm members may eventually wish to exercise their legal option to become independent farmers,
especially in Almaty Oblast. The project will thus promote restructuring and financing arrangements that
preserve the option of farm members to separate from the base farms.



Page 58
33.   Get Capital Flowing. Capital demand is real. Farmers and farm managers understand very well
that their opportunities are limited and declining due to the lack of short-term and long-term capital for
operations and investment, respectively. Compared to the management of base farms, independent
farmers appear to be responsive to market signals, however weak, and to adopt diversified strategies that
enable them to experiment with new approaches in cropping and marketing while maintaining their
solvency. They need capital to increase their responsiveness, stimulate their imaginations and intensify
their operations. Base farms need capital to raise yields, rationalize sunk costs and transforn their
operations over time. In short, capital is needed to induce restructuring, to establish new farms, large and
small, and to increase, production, productivity and profits. Equity and effectiveness require the project
to give priority to investments that will maximize overall impact. For the sake of equitable and broad
based development, and to ensure that the credit demands of large units do not overshadow the needs of
smaller units, a portion of the credit will be reserved for small independent farms.
34.   Make Business and Technical Advice Accessible and Practical. Advisory Centers will need to
prove their value to farmers who are justifiably skeptical of initiatives promoted by the public sector and
unfamiliar with private sector operations. Responding to the findings of the SA, Advisory Centers will
give priority to financial and legal advice. In addition, to the extent possible, they will provide access to
market information or market information sources. The mobile teams will have a particularly important
role to play, bringing advice and resource people to the more distant rural areas. The Advisory Centers
will monitor demands and utilization, and respond to changing priorities and levels of sophistication over
time.
35.   Prepare for Mitigation and Maximize Employment Opportunities. To become profitable,
many farms will have to divest social infrastructure and reduce their labor force. Although direct
mitigation is beyond the scope of the Ministry of Agriculture, efforts will be made to help local
administrations assume responsibility for social infrastructure and to provide start-up capital for local
commercial and service enterprises, both to reduce unemployment and to serve local needs through the
private sector. Loans to base farms will be preceded by an inventory of social infrastructure and the
commercial and service structure of associated communities. The social infrastructure inventory will
inform investment decisions, as well as discussions between the farms, communities and local
administration. The commercial and service inventory will help assess unmet local needs which can be
addressed by offering targeted training programs and credit opportunities, particularly to those who
become unemployed as the result of Agricultural Post-privatization Support Project.
36.   Monitor Demand, Supply, Impacts and Opportunities. The first phase of the project will
essentially be a pilot program. Systematic monitoring will be required In order to maximize learning in
the pilot. The monitoring program is designed to assess the following:
*   changes in the composition, magnitude and content of demand for advisory services and
credit;
*   the adequacy, responsiveness, accessibility and effectiveness of the Advisory Centers and
participating financial institutions;
*   economic and social impacts of public information campaigns, Advisory Centers and
Networks, restructuring plans, investments and the divestiture of social infrastructure, on
farm and community levels;
*   the impact of small-scale investments in local commercial and service enterprises, and
emergence of new opportunities.



Page 59
Annex 7
KAZAKHSTAN - AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Description of Project Areas
Akmola and Almaty Oblasts
1.    The project will be implemented in two oblasts, Akmola and Almaty, which have very different
climates, agriculture and population. They share one characteristic, however, the designation of national
Capital. On December 10, 1997, the Capital shifted from Almaty to Akmola.
2.    Akmola is located just west of the center of Kazakhstan in the northern third of the country on the
open steppes. Almaty is located in the southeast corner of the country, north of the Zailiyskii Alatau part
of the Tien-Shen Mountains, which form the border between Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic. The
boundaries of both oblasts are new; in April, 1997, Almaty Oblast, which excludes the city of Almaty,
absorbed most of Taldy-Korgan Oblast, located to the north and east; and Akmola was expanded to
include most of Kokshetau Oblast. Akmola now covers 224,200 square kilometers and has an estimated
population of 880,500. Almaty covers 121,700 square kilometers and has an estimated population of
1,632,900. Almaty is predominately rural (70 percent) and Akmola is predominantly urban (45 percent
rural). Despite considerable emigration of Germans, Russians and Ukrainians since independence,
Kazakhs are still a minority in Akmola (31 percent); in Almaty, Kazakhs account for about 57 percent of
the population.
Akmola Oblast
3.     Akmola Oblast in one of five oblasts in Central Kazakhstan with a combined population of 4.4
million people. The climate is continental, with warm summers (19-20(C) and cold winters (-17-19(C).
Annual precipitation is 300 mm., overall, with areas varying from 200 to 400 mm. per year. Rainfall is
most prevalent during spring and fall. Winters bring little snow (20-30 cm.), many sunny days and strong
winds. Summers are dry with hot, dry winds.
4.     The steppe area is a natural grassland, with soils that vary from fertile black chernozem soils in
the north to brown forest and lighter soils in the southern part of the zone. Historically, this area was the
home of sheep herders who moved about seasonally, with very little sedentary agriculture. In the 1950's,
however, the land was opened for grain cultivation through the famous "Virgin Lands" program
attributed to the leadership of Nikita Kruschev. Huge sovkhozes (state farms) and kolkhozes (collective
farms) were built from scratch by immigrants from Russia, Ukraine and other parts of the Soviet Union,
drawing in the sizable population of Germans who had been exiled to the area during World War II, as
well as local residents.
5.    The principal crop in Akmola is rainfed wheat, primarily spring wheat, which was left fallow
every five years. Other crops are fodder (Lucerne and grasses), maize, sunflower and millet. During the
Soviet period, this area also had a sizable animal population, particularly around Akmola, with dairy and
meat production, as well as wool. Akmola was also a major center for manufacturing agricultural
machinery and there were some food processing plants and light industries. Gold, coal, tin and quartz
sand are also mined within the boundaries of the expanded Akmola oblast.



Page 60
6.    Akmola is famous for the huge state and collective farms that literally transformed the steppes
from grassland pastures to highly mechanized farms. The farms were as large as 300,000 ha., including
crop lands and extensive pastures. Farm and community were one and the same. One farm could have
from a few hundred to a few thousand workers, their families and other community members, including
medical and education professionals, mechanics and other skilled workers and pensioners. The farm
would consist of a major settlement and a number of smaller satellite settlements, entirely managed by the
farm administration. These huge grain factories provided wheat and animal products to much of the
Soviet Union. Rural families enjoyed a standard of living that was similar to that of urban people, all
elements of which were directly financed and managed by the farm with support from the State budget..
7.    The collapse of the Soviet Union changed rural life. Since independence, agricultural production
has decreased dramatically in Akmola, as in all of Kazakhstan. The animal population has been
decimated as animals were sold by the farms and others were distributed to farm workers. The fallow
period is often overlooked and little or no fertilizer is used, causing soil fertility and soil moisture to
decline. The lack of spare parts and the high cost of available parts and lubricants have led to the
deterioration of farm equipment, due to poor maintenance and the cannibalization of much of the capital
stock to keep some machines moving. Grain price controls were lifted in 1996 and prices have increased
to near world market prices, but electricity and fuel prices have also been raised, putting farms in a
financial squeeze and debt.
8.    Similarly, the standard of living in the countryside has decreased significantly. Wages remain
unpaid or are paid after months and years of nonpayment or paid in kind. Some farm workers are
reduced to half-time employment or put on leave, receiving basic food rations and fodder for payment.
Increasingly, farm families turn to their home garden plots for subsistence and income. While some
farms continue to fund social infrastructure (school and health care) their numbers are declining but local
governments are still unable to assume responsibility.
9.    The Government's privatization program changed the legal status of most farms, but many large
units remain intact in Akmola. Data regarding the type and size of farms are inconsistent from one
source to another, thus they must be taken as indicative, rather than absolute. Table 1 illustrates current
trends in farin management structures, as well as the average size of different types of units, both total
land area and arable land. From this, we can see that the number of partnerships and independent farms
has grown markedly, especially over the last year, and state and collective farms have almost
disappeared. Farm size is large, except for independent farm.
Table I Farm Types and Average Size, Akmola Oblast
Number                         Average Size (ha.)
1/93       1/97        7/97        Total       Arable
State Farm               256         17          13          7,3000     4,691
Collective Farm          33          1           0           34,690      15,285
Production Cooperative   11          173         144         43,841      21,735
Partnership              0           83          169         36,938'     15.123'
Joint Stock Company      0           32          43
Independent Farm         1,177       2,670       3,629       327         103
1 Includes both Joint Stock Companies and Limited Partnerships
10.   The agricultural privatization program was designed to distribute land and farm assets equitably,



Page 61
to enable rural people to reorganize themselves as they wished, but implementation has not been
equitable. The privatization process was carried out in earnest from 1993 to 1996, with a subsequent
flurry of activity in early 1997 to get farm enterprises to conform to the new Civil Code. During the main
period, officials and farm managers orchestrated the process, giving little information to other rural
people. On most farms, land and property shares were alloc ted to people, but rarely distributed. On
some farms, most of the land was allocated to the raion, rather than to farm members. Land shares
specified the size of each allocation, but not the location of individual plots. Property shares often were
retained by the farm, ostensibly to serve as collateral for farm debts; when they were distributed, each
property share might consist of a part of a tractor or other machinery.
11.    Over time, farm managers were granted special privileged access to a share of the farm lands and
they generally accumulated additional shares through legitimate or devious means. The privatization law
legally entitled farm members to take their land and property shares and withdraw from the main farmns.
Initially managers honored such requests, prompting the farm assemblies to assign plots on the periphery
of the farm to the independent farmers. Subsequently, however, the managers actively discouraged the
exiting process. Consequently, the number of new independent farmers increased modestly until late
1996 and early 1997, when officials of the Department of Agriculture conducted an information
campaign to inform farm managers and members of their rights and of the need to restructure to be in
accord with the Civil Code. Meanwhile, most farm managers sought to increase their holdings. In some
cases, they bought or leased shares straightforwardly; in other cases, they coerced members to lease or
transfer their shares to them in return for the promise to pay wages or to guarantee employment. Many of
the Germans, Russians and Ukrainians who emigrated in the latter years left their shares behind, often
without transferring them to others. It is not clear if managers expropriated such shares personally, to
assign them to the farm entity, or distributed them to farm members.
12.   Currently, few farms in Akmola are profitable and even fewer have been able to maintain their
capital stock or to manage their soil resources satisfactorily. Meanwhile, except for grain storage and
milling, farm-related industries have virtually collapsed, and the machinery and other capital stock on the
farms appears to have reached its final days. The farm population changed somewhat in the early 1990s
when former German, Russian and Ukrainian immigrants returned to their homelands. The proportion of
Kazakhs has increased overall, but they are most prevalent in the parts of the Oblast with the least
favorable conditions. In other areas, non-Kazakhs have retained their predominance in farm management
roles, and many farms still maintain their high concentrations of Russian, German and Ukrainian and
other nationalities.
Almaty Oblast
13.   In contrast to Akmola Oblast, much of Almaty Oblast has more favorable conditions, better
access to markets and more diversified markets. Nonetheless, it suffers from many of the problems that
beset Akmola. Almaty, too, has a continental climate, but it has milder winters  (-7-1 IOC) and hotter
summers (22-240 C) than Akmola, and less wind, and the growing season is longer. Snowfall is limited
in much of Almaty Oblast (20-25 cm.), but it is higher in the foothills in the south and east. Precipitation
in Almaty Oblast varies from an average of less than 200 mm. in the west and northern parts of the oblast,
to 1,000 mm. in some areas in the south and east. Rainfall is more reliable than in Akmola, as well. The
soils in much of Almaty are good quality, former woodlands.
14.    Almaty Oblast has been the site of sedentary agriculture for a long time. Cropping is diversified
and intensive, with irrigation in many parts, drawing from snowmelt, perennial rivers and groundwater.
The terrain varies in altitude from the southern steppes in the northern reaches of the Oblast to mountains



Page 62
in the south, providing varied microclimates for many types of field crops, fruits and vegetables. Sugar
beet, wheat, maize and rice are prevalent in the area that was formerly Taldy-Korgan Oblast. Winter
wheat, barley and fodder corps are grown on the non-irrigated foothills and southern parts of the former
Almaty Oblast. Temperate fruits are also grown in the foothills and valleys. Vegetable production is
prominent near the urban areas, as sell as milk and meat production. Sheep breeding is prevalent in the
northern and western parts of the Oblast.
15.   As cropping is diversified, landholding is also varied in Akmola Oblast. Almaty had fewer state
farms than Akmola initially, but now has more (120 in 1993 and 46 in 1997). The number of collective
farms was initially higher in Almaty ( 91 in 1993) than Akmola (33 in 1993), but here too they have all
but disapproved. Production cooperatives and partnerships have increased markedly in number, while
joint stock companies have remained constant and the number of independent farms has skyrocketed over
the last couple of years, largely as the result of an information campaign designed to harmonize farm
structures with the new Civil Code. In each category, average farm sizes in Almaty are much smaller
than farms in Akmola. The largest farms in Almaty are located in the northwest part of the oblast, at the
edge of the steppes.
Table 2 Farm Types and Average Size, Almaty Oblast
Number                         Average Size (ha.)
1/93       1/97        7/97        Total      Arable
State Farm               120            59          45        3,422         788
Collective Farm           91            20            1      15,723       1,213
Production Cooperative     0           375         525       22,613       1,834
Partnership                0           765         780       10,571       1,362'
Joint Stock Company        0            55          55
Independent Farm        1,330         8,498      11,178         122          18
I Includes both Joint Stock Companies and Limited Partnerships.
16.   Farm privatization in Almaty Oblast followed a pattern similar to that of Akmola, although there
has been a much higher prevalence of restructuring that occurred, particularly over the last couple of
years and a higher incidence of the use of boater for trade and in-kind payments in lieu of cash wages.
Similar to Akmola, the level of information available to farm members was low in Almaty; farm
managers used their advantageous positions to increase their holdings; and the disposition of abandoned
shares by emigrants is also open to question. Despite the relatively high population density, more
accessible public transportation and better communications, farm members were largely under the control
of farm managers until the Department of Agriculture's information campaign in late 1996 and early
1997, associated with the attempt to get farms to conform to the Civil Code.
17.   Farmers and farm families in Almaty suffered most of the consequences of the collapse of the
Soviet Union that face the rural population in Akmola. Their standard of living has decreased, services
have disappeared or become expensive; wages are unpaid, delayed or paid in kind; and the principal
source of subsistence and income is the family garden plot. In other respects, however, many residents of
Almaty Oblast have some distinct advantages over their counterparts in Akmola. First, communities are
much more dense, diversified and inter-related, and residents have more diversified survival strategies.
Many farm communities near the cities of Taldy Korgan and Almaty are relatively large and relatively
few of the residents are directly dependent on the farms. Many people commute to the city for work or
are engaged in commercial pursuits, transportation or other sectors of a diversified economy. Thus it is
not uncommon for family incomes to come from different sources, only one of which may be farm



Page 63
employment. Similarly, survival of the community is less dependent on direct financial support or
management by the farm. Second, access to diversified markets and a milder climate enable people to
grow and market high value crops, as well as manage more animals on their family plots. This means
that the prospects are better for individuals to break away from the large farms and start their own farms,
and obtain a reasonable income from a small plot. Third, the cost of living is relatively high nonetheless
for therapy the opportunities are fewer to use barter in exchanges, thus limiting one avenue through
which many rural people are exploited.  Fourth, much of Almaty Oblast is relatively homogenous.
Kazakhs are the dominant ethnic group in the countryside, at all levels of the hierarchy, thus there is a
low likelihood of developing explosive conflicts during difficult times. Finally, the diversified, intensive
farming on smaller units decreases the need for major capital investments in farm machinery, thus
reducing start-up costs.
Farms and Communities--Akmola and Taldy Korgan
18.   The SA team tried to obtain a comprehensive demographic, social and economic data set for each
of the 27 farms which were included in the household survey. The effort was only partially successful,
however. Most farms provided some data, but the overall set was very incomplete. Data from the six
farms that had the most complete data set are used below to present some comparisons or farms and
oblasts. As almost every data set contained some discrepancies, the numbers presented must be seen as
indicative, not absolute. The description and narrative will be kept to a minimum to enable the data to
speak for themselves.
*   Farm Size: average farm size in Taldy-Korgan is 11,354 ha., less than half the average size
in Akmola, 28,201 ha.
*   Population: the average population of the farms is 2,877 in Almaty and 1,238 in Akmola
*   Farm membership: there was an average of 554 members in Taldy -Korgan, compared to
397 in Akmola. Twenty-one percent of the population is engaged in farming in Taldy-
Korgan, compared to 18 percent in Akmola.
*   Pensioners: on average, pensioners make up 8 percent of the population of the three farms
in Taldy -Korgan, and 17 percent of the population in the Akmola farms.
*   In Taldy-Korgan, there is one doctor for 392 people, compared to one for every 530 people
in Akmola
*   Teacher Ratio: there is one teacher for 18 people under the age of 16 in Taldy-Korgan, and
one teacher for every 9 youths in Akmola.
*   Ethnicity: Although Kazakhs make up 48 percent of the people on the six farms, the
concentration varies markedly from 97 percent to 10 percent. Russians make up 5 percent
of the population on the three farms in Taldy-Korgan and 36 percent of the farm population
in Akmola, varying from 1 percent to 39 percent. Although there are very few Germans or
Ukrainians in the sample farms in Taldy-Korgan, they comprise 23 percent and 27 percent,
respectively of the Akmola sample farm population. Almost without exception, the non-
Kazakhs are concentrated in one or two farms, rather than being spread out across the
different farms.
*   Education: Thirty-two percent of the Taldy-Korgan population have completed secondary
school, alone, compared to 10 percent in Akmola.
*   Youth: people under 16 comprise 38 percent of the three sample farns in Taldy-Korgan,
compared to 32 percent of the population of the two farms in Akmola for which we have
data.
*   Schools: one farm has three schools, but all of the rest have one school.
*   Machinery: there is one tractor per 50 people in Taldy-Korgan, of which one-third are on-



Page 64
functional; in the two farms for which we have data in Akmola, there is one tractor per
fifteen people, only 3 percent of which are out of commission.
*   Cars: there is one car per 39 people in Taldy-Korgan (two farms) and one per 33 people in
Akmola.  Thirty percent of the cars in the Taldy-Korgan farms are not functioning,
compared to 4 percent in Akmola.
*   Commerce: there are 5 shops in Taldy-Korgan and 3 in Akmola, one per farm.
*   Production: grain, fodder and hay are the most prevalent crops in Akmola, but Taldy-
Korgan has a very complex mix of crops ranging from grass and fodder to field crops, sugar
beets and fruits.
19.   To summarize, the farms in Akmola are huge, but sparsely populated compared to those in
Taldy-Korgan. The population is older in Akmola and more diversified ethnically, with concentrations of
specific ethnic groups in particular settlements. Akmola has a higher ratio of teachers per students, but
less access to medical personnel. Although there is more machinery in the Taldy-Korgan farms, much is
not functioning. Overall, Akmola presents major challenges for the project, especially related to the
magnitude of farms and distances and relatively limited cropping spectrum,. On the other hand, Taldy-
Korgan presents challenges related to the diversity and intensity of agriculture, with growing pressure on
the land and badly deteriorated capital stock.
Project Implications
20.   These characterizations of the two oblasts have several implications for the project. First, farm
size in Akmola will inevitably remain large. In this context, a small family farm must consist of several
hundred hectares in order to generate enough income to support a family, and relatively large units are
required to generate the income needed to buy or rent machinery. It is too early to estimate what might
be viable minimum or maximum farm sizes in the Oblast, but it can be expected that many of the small
farm units will ultimately aggregate to form larger ones. Second, the impact of reducing farm
employment is likely to be greater in Akmola Oblast than in Almaty, as people have fewer immediate
opportunities for alternative employment and impossibly great distances to commute to cities or other
farms. Consequently, although the project will try to promote new income generating activities during its
second phase, emigration is likely to increase over time. Third, divestment of social infrastructure is
likely to be a significant part of business plans in Akmola, with potentially devastating consequences.
Schools are the most likely to suffer. Unless local administrations are prepared to act decisively and
quickly to fund rural schools, Kazakhstan faces the prospect of developing parallel and unequal
educational tracks for rural and urban children. Project monitoring will assess the social impact of
divestiture and reduced farm labor demand and develop mitigation measures that can be implemented in
the second phase. Fourth, in the context of the diversified, intensive and competitive agriculture in
Almaty Oblast, the Advisory Centers will need access to information regarding markets inside and
outside of Kazakhstan in order to develop successful business plans. Fifth, the great differences between
the two oblasts create very distinct challenges for the project in terms of communication strategies, the
complexity of restructuring, the social consequences of attaining commercial viability, the range of
options available, and the amount of capacity building required, to name a few. Success in both contexts
will offer very important lessons that can be applied when extending the project to other oblasts.



Page 65
Annex 8
KAZAKHSTAN - AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Checklist for Evaluating Compliance with Triggers for Phase Two
A.    Institutional Capacity of Rural Advisory Centers and the PIU evaluated as sufficient to expand
program. Both the advisory centers and the PIU will be rated. Except as noted the ratings will be on a
scale of 1 to 5, with 5 as fully adequate, 4 as exceeds the minimum standard, but with room for
improvement, 3 at the minimum standard, 2 as inadequate but improving, and 1 at completely inadequate.
1.    Rate the capacity of the RACs in Akmola and Almaty to handle expanded program
* Adequacy of staff and local consultants;
*   Skills and experience of staff;
*   Staff understanding of objectives of project and procedures for assisting rural enterprises;
* Adequacy equipment (computers, communications, vehicles);
* Level of functioning of network of service providers, and quality of links with other
agencies and institutions;
* Quality and timeliness of progress reports; and
* Feedback from clients and PFIs on quality of support services being provided.
2.    Rate the capacity of the Project Implementation Unit to handle expanded program.
* Adequacy of Staff and local consultants;
* Skills and experience of staff;
* Staff understanding of objectives of project and procedures for assisting rural enterprises;
* Adequacy of Equipment (computers, communications, vehicles);
* Quality of monitoring function and progress reports; and
* Ability to process sub-loan documentation, and disbursement and replenishment requests
B.    Institutional Capacity and interest of the PFIs rated as sufficient to undertake significantly
expanded program of lending in second phase of the program (Again each point is evaluated on a scale of
one to five, with five being fully sufficient).
* Number of PFI's is sufficient to handle additional credit funds based on adequacy of capital,
continued interest in rural lending and experience with phase one; and
* Training provided by EU TACIS provides cadre of well trained rural finance specialists of
PFI's.
C.    Credit line evaluated as performing satisfactorily under phase one with demonstrated capacity for
expansion under phase II.
*   Lending in phase one to a balanced portfolio of rural enterprises.
*   Quality of portfolio as measured by percentage of total outstanding loans that are considered
as non-performing (less then ten percent);



Page 66
* At least 75 percent of credit component committed; and
* Demand for credit by rural enterprises remains strong as measured by the number of loan
applications and business plans being generated by the advisory centers.
D.    Institutional Development Component has created an environment that supports greater volumes
of secured lending to rural areas and provides for enhanced creditor rights.
* Registries for claims on moveable property operating effectively;
* Project interventions successful in supporting the framework for the development of a
system of bonded warehouses and the use of warehouse receipts as security for lending; and
* Are bankruptcy proceedings against rural enterprises are being undertaken regularly and
result in a rapid and transparent means for the liquidation of assets of insolvent firms.
Triggers for Subsequent Phases
3.     Triggers for moving to subsequent phases would be elaborated on the basis of implementation
experience with the first two phases. Areas where triggers will be defined include: (i) availability and
capacity of advice, and information providers for private rural enterprises in expanded; (ii) continued
satisfactory performance snd interest in rural lending by PFI's;  (iii) continued demand by rural
enterprises for commercial financial services, and (iv) continued sound legal framework for secured
lending and protection of creditors rights.



Page 67
Annex 9
KAZAKHSTAN - AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Letter of Sector Development Program
Mr. Johannes Linn
Vice President
The World Bank, Europe and Central Asia Region
May 8, 1998
Dear Mr. Linn,
Letter of Agricultural Post Privatization Assistance Program
1.  The Government of Kazakhstan attaches high priority to the reform of agriculture. The goal of
the reform program is to develop a market-oriented, competitive and diverse agricultural sector
serviced by well-functioning input and output market. The Government has made significant progress
in its reform efforts. Most farms and agro-businesses have been privatized and a land code and real
estate registration law have been enacted. Trade, price and marketing controls have been substantially
removed, and most subsidies and directed credits have been eliminated.
2.   Despite the substantial progress with reform, key issues remain that undermine performance in
the sector. We have elaborated the Agricultural Post Privatization Assistance Program together with
the World Bank to address these issues. The main objective of the Program is to accelerate the pace of
restructuring of newly privatized farms in key agricultural areas of Kazakhstan and improve
productivity and incomes on restructured farms. The Program is to be implemented in two oblasts-
Akmola and Almaty - and we will consider expanding it to other oblasts based on our experience with
its implementation. This Program is based on the Strategic Plan for Development of the Republic of
Kazakhstan for 1998-2000 and the Program for the Activities of the Government of the Republic of
Kazakhstan for 1998-2000 which were adopted on January 28, 1998 by the Decree of the President of
the Republic of Kazakhstan #3834 "On Measures on   Implementation of the Strategy for the
Development of Kazakhstan to 2030".
Government's Strategy in Agricultural Sector
3.   Government's strategy in agricultural sector is aimed at completion of reforms in agriculture and
providing social protection for the rural population. The strategy includes the following key elements:
4.   Support for the emergence of a viable private sector (to real owners) in agriculture. As a
result of reforms in agriculture, the farming community has undergone dramatic changes since 1991
when the sector consisted of about 2500 state and collective farms. Nearly all the farms have now
been privatized with land shares and property entitlements distributed to farm members. These assets
have been used to establish a number of different types of farming structures including family farms,
joint-stock companies, production cooperatives, and various forms of partnerships. By June 1997, the



Page 68
number of farms has expanded to about 68000 private entities. At the same time, due to lack of the
system for registering the property rights for land, the entitlements distributed to farm members were
not tied to certain identified plots of land. Besides, the changes in farm structure sometimes have taken
place in the absence of information to farm members about their options and rights as shareholders.
Many of farms also are heavily indebted thereby preventing the inflow of financial resources into
agriculture. To address these issues, we are planning to: (i) improve the enforcement of bankruptcy
law in agriculture on the basis of the recently adopted the Resolution of the Government of
Kazakhstan #1816 of December 22, 1998 on bankruptcy procedures in agricultural sector; (ii) ensure
that entitlements for land and equity shares are really transferred to farm members and the land
entitlements are referred to the certain plots of land; (iii) complete the legal registration of agricultural
enterprises in accordance with the Civil Code.
5.   Development of market infrastructure for agriculture. The reform policy in agriculture is
aimed in producing farms that are commercially viable, well-managed and creditworthy. Continuing
since 1991 decline in agricultural output and lack of financing for farms have led to the deterioration
of capital stock of farms, worsening of agricultural operations and technologies and prevailing barter
trade and/or in-kind payments in transactions with agricultural products. The market, price and trade
reforms implemented to date provide a solid basis for the development of a fully functioning
agricultural marketing system. However locally imposed trade restrictions, poor price information and
the lack of competition in both output and credit markets often put farmers at a bargaining
disadvantage. We are going to address the situation through efforts to: (i) develop unencumbered
market channels, improve input and output marketing; (ii) develop consulting, leasing and marketing
services; (iii) develop commodity exchanges, standard contract formats, and trading rules to assure
transparency in the price setting process; (iv) create conditions for voluntary joining of farmers in
cooperatives or associations; (v) improve the availability of market information and (vi) enact anti-
monopoly and fair competition legislation.
6.   Development of agro-processing businesses. Special attention will be paid to the development
of agro-processing businesses to increase added value of agriculture and insure stable domestic
markets for agricultural products. We are going to support the development of agro-processing
businesses through: (i) attracting foreign financial assistance and private direct investments to finance
agro-processing businesses; (ii) stimulating domestic investments in agro-processing; (iii) aggressive
application of bankruptcy legislation to facilitate further restructuring of agro-processing; (iii)
facilitating the development of secondary markets in shares of privatized agro-processing industries
and introduction of international quality standards.
7.   Development of rural finance system. The macro-economic and financial stabilization, market
liberalization and strengthening of the financial sector of the economy provide the basis for the
development a sound rural finance system. We intend to support the establishment of a competitive
rural finance system serviced largely by commercial banks and rural credit cooperatives. Currently
farm and agro-business enterprises have difficulty in securing commercial credit lines to meet their
needs for working capital for raw materials and inputs and for medium term finance for equipment,
livestock and farm building. While an increasing number of commercial banks are now expressing an
interest in developing agricultural portfolios, actual lending to the sector is still very limited because
of high risks and costs of such lending and lack of profitable opportunities for banks in agriculture. In
general, rural clients are not able to compete at the market of credit resources with other types of
clients (traders, industrial enterprises, service providers). In anticipation of this, the Government has
secured the special credit lines channeled through the commercial banks to provide financing for



Page 69
farms and agro-businesses. In 1996 we assigned US$ 100 million out of the proceeds of the ADB loan
for on-lending to agricultural enterprises. This year we have earmarked in the republican budget 2,5
billion Tenge (about US$ 33 million) to co-finance loans of commercial banks to agriculture. While
the terms and conditions of these credit lines contain temporary provisions to limit or subsidize the
cost of resources for a final borrower, our general policy is to establish commercial practice of rural
financing. Implementation of our reform program of agriculture will allow the emergence of sound
and creditworthy agricultural clients, and there will no further need for any type of subsidies.
Proposed Agricultural Post Privatization Assistance Program
8.   The Agricultural Post Privatization Program has been developed with the World Bank in line
with Government's strategy in agricultural sector. The program envisages the measures to improve the
performance of farms including: (i) maintenance of the policy framework and strengthening the
market economy; (ii) improve of flows of information, advice and training to newly emerging farms;
(iii) support for the development of rural financial markets and improving the access of private farms
to commercial financial services; and (iv) introduction a second generation of legal and institutional
reforms to improve the rural financial system and strengthen bankruptcy procedures.
9.   The program will include approximately three phases over a period of about ten years and will
focus on a restructuring at the farm level to increase productivity and achieve and sustain commercial
viability. It may involve splitting-up existing farms, changes in ownership patterns management, and
corporate status, new investment, and changes in product mix, input usage and production practice.
The first phase will focus on the legal framework, the institutions, and the procedures to support
restructuring and stimulate the flow of commercial bank financing to farms which have restructured
and are commercially viable. The first phase will involve Almaty and Akmola oblasts. The second
phase will intensify and expand the program and will build on lessons learned in the first phase and
the third phase will expand the program nation-wide.
10.   Triggers for moving to the second phase will be based on the following criteria: (i)
successful establishment and operation of the Farm Advisory Centers; (ii) disbursement of the credit
line for a diversified portfolio of sub-projects including a balance mix of loans to private family farms
as well as to corporate entities; (iii) satisfactory performance of the sub-loan portfolio; and (iv)
successful implementation of bankruptcy procedures and the registration system for pledges on
moveable property.
11.   Triggers for moving to subsequent stages will include (i) satisfactory performance of the
PFI's under the first two phases; and, (ii) development of the advisory services network and
availability of advisory services to farmers. These triggers will be elaborated further based on the
experience with implementation of the first two stages.
Government's Commitments in Respect to the Program
12.   To provide successful implementation of the Program and to reduce the risk of program's
failure, we assure the World Bank that: (i) the existing initiatives to subsidize credits will be
completed to the end of Government's fiscal year 1998; (ii) these credits will not be rolled over at
maturity on the same terms and conditions; (iii) any Government program with subsidized interest
rates for agricultural lending for FY99 will not be implemented in Akmola and Almaty oblasts; and,
(iv) starting January 1, 2000 Government will inform the World Bank on terms and conditions of
Government programs for agricultural lending and will agree with the World Bank on such terms and
conditions. In addition, we will undertake measures to prevent local authorities from restricting trade
in agricultural markets and impeding implementation of bankruptcy procedures.



Page 70
13.  To support the Agricultural Post Privatization Assistance program laid out in this letter, the
Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan is requesting the World Bank to provide a financial
facility in an amount of US$ 85million. Within this facility, to implement the first phase of the
program, the Government of Kazakhstan is requesting a Loan in an amount of US$ 15 million.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed)
Erzhan Utembayev,
Minister - Chairman,
Agency for Strategic Planning and Reforms,
Republic of Kazakhstan
Agreed:
Sauat Mynbaev,                                 Sergey Kulagin,
Minister of Finance,                          Minister of Agriculture,
Republic of Kazakhstan                         Republic of Kazakhstan



Page 71
Annex 10
KAZAKHSTAN - AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Elibibility Criteria For Beneficiaries and Sub-Projects
Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries
The Project is intended to support a transparent process of farm restructuring where recently
privatized state and collective farms with the support of advisory services undertake fundamental changes
in the management, ownership structure, size, production mix, and technologies necessary to improve
productivity and achieve sustainable commercial viability. The farming community is currently facing
extreme financial difficulties and is in a considerable state of flux since the farms were initially
privatized and property shares and entitlements to land were distributed among workers and farm
managers.   Much of the change that has taken place since the privatization is part of the painful but
necessary adaptation that the farms must make to the new realities of the market place. But, as the social
assessment has shown, there are also instances where the changes being made at the farm level are
concentrating control, if not outright ownership of the farms into the hands of select individuals through
transfers of shares and property entitlements in an atmosphere of mis-information and outright coercion.
The project is intended to promote informed decision making on the use of property and land shares in
the restructuring process and the advisory services will focus on issues of share ownership and transfers
at the initial stages of restructuring.
To ensure that the credit component is supporting a transparent and equitable restructuring
process it is necessary to establish clear guidelines for the eligibility of potential sub-borrowers. The
PFI's will have the primary responsibility for checking for eligibility though a system of prior review will
be implemented so that loan applications from sub-borrowers with large land holdings will be reviewed
by either by the advisory centers or the Bank before being approved. To be eligible for loans under the
project, farms must:
*   be 100 percent privately owned and duly registered as a family farm or legal entity
recognized by the legal code (joint stock company, production cooperative, or a
partnership);
*   have a share holding structure that is transparent and fully documented. Where shares in a
legal entity (JSC, production cooperative, or partnership) have been transferred to the farm
managers by the farm workers or pensioners, the terms and conditions of those transfers
must be fully documented in a formal lease or sales agreement that specifies the terms and
condition of the transfer;
*   have undergone or are in the process of restructuring and can demonstrate in a business plan
their financial and commercial viability and ability to repay the loan.
The credit line would also be available to non-farm commercial activities in farming communities
affected by restructuring including agro-processors, input suppliers, commodities traders, equipment hire
companies, and farm community service providers such as retail outlets, canteens, recreation facilities or



Page 72
pharmacies, Such entities would need to be 100 percent privately owned, legally registered and have a
business plan that demonstrates their commercially viability and ability to repay the loan.
Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects
In order to achieve the Project objectives through supporting the targeted beneficiaries as outlined above,
eligible sub-projects would include:
*   Agriculture related activities, e.g. agro-processing, agro-services, etc. that are directly linked
to farms receiving a credit under the Project;
*   Sub-projects with self-contribution of at least 10 percent for rehabilitation or modernization,
or 25 percent for new expansion;
*   Sub-projects that can demonstrate a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3 over the life of
the sub-loan, calculated on the basis of the entity's total debts.
*   investment sub-projects in agro-processing, agro-service or supply enterprises that can be
completed within 18 months from the date of the signature of the sub-loan agreement.
The line of credit would not finance the purchase or lease of land, dwelling construction or
improvement, or the refimancing of existing debts.



Page 73
Annex 11
KAZAKHSTAN - AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                            Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
320'                   5002
B. Project Schedule                                   Planned                 Actual
Board 12/16/97            06/02/98
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                   07/22/96               07/22/96
Appraisal mission departure                           08/09/97               02/16/98
Negotiations                                          1 1/17/97              04/25/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                        08/31/98
Prepared by: Ministry of Agriculture
Preparation assistance: PPF (US$853,000), PHRD Trust Fund (US$274,000), British Know-
How Fund (US$196,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                         Specialty
Roy Southworth                                 Team Leader
Hoonae Kim                                     Rural Finance
Ramesh G. Deshpande                            Rural Finance
Gulnaz Abdukadir                               Economist
Lazzat Buranbayeva                             Project Officer
Stan Peabody                                   Social Assessment
Tariq Hassan                                   Lawyer
Naushad A. Khan                                Procurement
Snezana B. Mitrovic                            Procurement
Final PCD budget estimates total $200,000 but cover only through pre-appraisal, adding estimated costs from appraisal
through Board bring this to $320,000.
2 Includes expenditures incurred before the FY96 management decision to split off a land registration component and process it
separately as a pilot project. Work on the project described in this PAD began in FY97 and expenditures since then have totaled
$US370,000. The cost estimate in the PCD did not include the expenditures associated with this land registration component.



Page 74
Subash Chandra                                Disbursement
Csaba Csaki                                   Quality Assurance
Brian W. Berman                               Peer Reviewer
Tjaart W. Schillhom-Van Veen                  Peer Reviewer
Valencia M. Copeland                          Team Assistant



Page 75
Annex 12
KAZAKHSTAN - AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
B1.   Detailed Cost Tables
B2.   Economic and Financial Analysis (forthcoming)
C. Other
Cl.   Design of an information and Advisory Component, June 1997, Segal Quince
Wickstead, Limited, Bob Hodgson.
C2.   Working Paper on Agronomic Systems, June 1997, Emerging Market
Economies.
C3.   Working Paper on Credit Component, Duggleby and Associates, March 1997.
C4.   Draft Project Memorandum, Kazakhstan Agricultural Post Privatization
Assistance Project, British - Know-How Fund, January 1997.
C5.   Social Assessment: Privatization and Restructuring in Agriculture in Akmola and
Almaty Oblasts, Bilesim International 1997.
C6.   Subsidiary Loan Agreement - (forthcoming)
*Including electronic files.



Page 76
Annex 13
KAZAKHSTAN - AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Statement of Loans and Credits
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiacal                                                                                                                       disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                              IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev, d
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 3
Active Loans
XZ-PE-340i3   IBRD42170   1998   REPUBLIC OF X)ZAKSTAN               PUBLIC SEC. RES.MGT.           230.00        0.00           0.00        150.00      150.00       0.00
KZ-PE-37960   IBRD40770   1997   REP OF KAZAKSTAN                   TREASURY MODERNIZATI             15.80       0.00            0.00         13.92        6.09       0.00
KZ-PE-45303   IBRD41290   1997   GOVT. OF KAZAKSTAN                 PILOT WATER SUPPLY                7.00       0.00            0.00          6.93        2.24       0.00
KZ-PE-46044   IBRD41460  .1997   REPUBLIC OF IKZAKSTAN              REAL ESTATE REG PLT.             10.00       0.00            0.00          8.92        1.22       0.00
KZ-PE-8507    IBRD40610   1997   REPUBLIC OF KAZAXHSTAN             UZEN OIL FIELD RiSAB            109.00       0.00            0.00        107.18       13.19       0.00
XZ-PE-8510    IBRD40410   1996   REPUB. OF KAZARESTAN                IRB5G. & DRAXlIAGE              80.00        0.00           0.00         73.85        1.25       0.00
KZ-PE-8506    IBRD38960   1995   GOVT. OF XAZAXESTAN                SOCIAL PROTECTION                41.10       0.00            0.00         29.67        -.33       0.00
KZ-PE-8508    XBRO38670   1995   GOVT OF KaZAKHSTAN                 FINANCE & ENT. DIVEL             62.00       0.00            0.00         56.82       56.82       0.00
KZ-PE-8501    IBRD37440   1994   REP. OF KAZKNSTAN                  PETROLEUM TA                     15.70       0.00            0,00          5.82        5.58       0.00
KZ-PE-8504    IBRD36420   1994   REPUB.OF XAZXBSTAN                 TEChNICAL ASSISTANCE             38.00       0.00            0.00          9.22        9.21    -28.79
KZ-PE-8511    IBRD37250   1994   GOVT OF KAZAKBSTAN                 URBAN TRANSPORT                  40.00       0.00            0.00          2.09        2.11       0.00
Total                                                                                               648.60       0.00            0.00        464.42      247.38    -28.79
Active Loans        Closed Loans            Total
Total Diabursed (IBRD and IDA):                184.17             539.99              724.16
of which haa been repaid:                  0.00               0.00                0.00
Total now hold by IBRD and IDA:                648.60             539.99            1,188.59
Amount sold                     :                0.00                0.00               0.00
Of which repaid              :                0.00               0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :              464.42               0.00              464.42
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see 0D 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Sunmary (Forn 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPp), a
letter based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 77
Annex 14
KAZAKHSTAN - AGRICULTURAL POST PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Country at a Glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY andSOCIAL                                             Central  middle-
K:.m . 0.  akhs  yAsia  Incomw     Development dlamond-
Populaton mid-1906 (millons)                          16.7       479    1,125
GNP:percapitam198(USS)                                1,310     2,180    1,750                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (biRaons US$)   -21.90: i 1,043    1 967.:
Average annual growh, 1990-96 .
Population(%)                                          0.0.       0.3      1.4     GNP                              Gross
Labor force) ()                                         0.5       0.5      1.8                   /I
per                            prMary
Most recent etimate (latest yearavaflable since 1989)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (%ofpopuation)
Urban population (% of total popublatin)                60        65       56
ULeexpectancyatfbirth  earia                            69 :      68       67
Infant mortali1ty (per 1, 000 It Ve birfhs)             27        26       41               Accesstosafewater
Child malnubtflon (% of children under 5)
Accessto safe water ( ofpopulatiq )                      ..        ...     78,
Illteracy (9 of populition age 15+)I                    3Ka                                    khstan
Gross primary enroliment( of schoo-age population)   :  87        97      104,z
Male                                                   .         7       0                 Lower-middle-income group
Female                                ..       ~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~97  ~101
KEY ECONOMC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS                 .-'
1975    195        1995    19961
Economic ratos'
,GDP (bilfionis US.),.                                   .       16.6    21.0
Gross domestic InvestnentlGDP:;                                  22 .0    19.1-
LExports of goo,ds and sOMvcesIGODP;::i;  t s::                          ;g,::...............    :   299  y :: ::    ;:U :::U345Openness of economy
GrossdoestcsavingsGP            .. d    i                         4.      16.0
GrossdomrieaWn-s/GD' f-         -                                1. 1.9    16.06
Current account balance/GOP,                             .   :-31         -3.7
Interest payments/GOPD    '        '        :        :         - 0.8       0.5     Savings                      Investment
.T0tal debt/GOP                                                  IZS2.    13.3-1
Total debt servicetexports                              ..         : .2    4.8
Present value of debt/GOP                                ,.      15.
Presentvlue ofdebt/exports                              .-       59.5                           Indebtedness
1975-85 -1986-98     1995  -:1996 -1997-0
larverage annual growth)                                                               -Kazakhstan
GDP                                    ..    -.2      -8i.9       1    .1 5.1
GNN srP per capita                    ..    -8.5      -8.2   -   0.0      3.6...............  -Lower-middle-i'.ncome group    02  00 :L .er-midd owrnol mecge up
Exportsof goodsanservices              .        .      4.5        9.1     8.2.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995    1996
(% of GDP)                                                                         Growth ates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                     ..       ..      12.5    12.3      15
Industry                                       ..       ..       30.0    25.4
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..        ..       ..____0
Services                                       ..       ..       57.4    62.4    -15.
Private consumption                             ..      ..       65.1     69.3     40
General govemment consumption                  ..       ..       15.5    14.6                    GDI   - DP
Importsofgoodsandservices                      ..       ..       37.1    33.0    ,
19754S  1986-96       1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                     ..       ..    -24.4       3.9     20
Industry                                        ..      ..    -12.3    -4.6
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..         . .             10
Services                                       ..       ..        8.1      2.0
Private consumpton                              ..      ..        4.9      8.0     151    n                              95
General govemment consumption                  ..        .       -4.1    -11.9     . 0
Gross domestic investment                      ..       ..       -.2    -4.4    .20
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..       10.7    11.0                  Expofs    -*Imports
Gronss natonal product                         ..      -.3       -9.3      0.6
Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 78
Kazakhstan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995      1996
Domestic prices                                                                      Inflation (X)
(% change)                                                                          2,noo
Consumer prices                                                  121.8     38.5
Implicit GOP deflator                                            164.3     38.2     1-
Government finance
(% ofGDP)                                                                               .
Current revenue                                                   25.1     20.1              9N   92   93   94   95   90
Current budget balance                                             0.1        3               -     GDP def. --OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                           -2.5     -3.1
TRADE
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                       Exportand Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                              5,197    5,479     roro
Oil & Gas                                                        786    1,022
Metals                                                         1,069      969      S o0
Manufactures                                                                ,I
Total imports (cif)                                              5,419    6.257      4,000
FoodF
Fuel and energy                                                1,237    1,458      wo__
Capaitlgoods                                   .
Export price index (1987=100)                                                             go  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       ..         ..       ..                    Exports    a imports
Terms of trade (1987Zl00)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                                    5,732    6,278     o
Imports of goods and servicess                                   6,162    6,926         90   9    932  93   94   95 |9
Resoune bal                                                       -431     -u48
Net income                                                        -147     -247    -2 --
Net current transfers                                              59       127
Current account balance,                                                            -4
before official capital transfers                               -518     -768
Financing items (net)                            ,                662       822
Changes in net reserves                                           .144      -54    .8 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)             ..       ..    1,717    2,081
Conversion rate (IocalUSS)                                        61.0     67.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                      ComposItlon of total debt. 1996 (milL USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                             2,070    2,791
IBRD                                           ,        ,       295       490                              A
IDA                                                               a         0             F               490
Total debt service                                                 241      299            816
IBRD                                                             14        24
IDA                                                               0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                   c
Official grants                                                   0         0                                    551.6
Official creditors                                              489       387
Private creditors                                               181       237
Foreign direct investment                                       895    1,214                      E
Portfolio equity                                                  7                              8 740 ..  8
Wordd Bank program
Commitments                                                     283       385      A - IBRD                     E - Bilaterl |
Disbursements                                  ,                107       225      B -IOA    D - Other multilateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                                              0         0      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                                       107       225
Interest payments                                                 14       24
Net transfers                                                    93       201
Development Economics                                                                                                 820197
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.
Govemment finance represents general govemment accounts unti 1991.



MAP SECTION



50                                       600                                TO    70, -                                        800                                           90
KAZAKHSTAN                                                          po Krgan       ,,<               X          ~         S                     /       
AGRICULTURAL POST-PRIVATIZ,ATION1    1                                                                           TOmkQ^Cmsk  <o Om,k Novosibirsk     F E D E R A T I O N
900
ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                           S   .s++z _/'RE%                                               aTo4                             ~-~(                             0
,T,,                                    L,_VmHSrA N   LA                   s_To Barnul                                     / . ,-L
r9                   ,S'.T Samara                                Ufa                         Al
iSERBAUANA  i  \ -9t -L G  J&!;l  ._jTBh  
' U Z B E KS TA N                     X   .                                                           0     4~\   
TO  PROJECTREGIONS                        TURKMENISTAN                                                    o To4ta
-   ROADS                                                                              Dz/tiza> _07'_ _                           ,<;. 
AOA RAPITL                   R          OD the bap Den,gnr bUnit dof The0   *         _         . Dashonbe    TAJI K ISTAN    
0    REGION CAPITALS                     cabs-s, denonninations anod                                             ' 0, 
any other nfannation shown                                            /   
O    SELECTED CITIES          s~~~~~~he pars of The Waorld Bank                                     j       j,_                                                                            .
>            t - ~REGION BOUNDARIES                 rolup, any juodgaent an the             1 '                                                                               I \_  /     'j/ '       O  0  0  0 ilores
2       |-| ~-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES            ao, any endarnsnment or                                1t*                     '.     j % ,- *_               
r-                                        ~~~~~~~~~~acceptance af suck        /                                              *         t%                      I            F             
Ea                                         bou~~~~~~~hnadories.                           AFGHANISTAN   70               *                           .-     0  -         100         200 Miles 
_____________________  I                                                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PVLDA



