Report No. PIC781
Project Name                     Kazakstan-Farm Restructuring Project (@+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       KZPA8503
Borrower                         Republic of Kazakstan
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Agriculture
Ms. Amangeldy Taskuzlinov
15 Republic Square
Almaty, Kazakstan
Tel:    7-3272-63-6876
Fax:    7-3272-63-1377
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           03/28/97
Projected Appraisal Date         08/09/97
Projected Board Date             12/16/97
Country and Sector Background
Agriculture is prominent in Kazakstan's economy. It employs 25
percent of the labor force, accounts for about 15 percent of GDP
and is a major source of export revenues. The sector has abundant
resources, a well-trained work force, and considerable potential to
expand productivity and output. Despite this potential, the sector
is currently in crisis. Output and productivity have declined
precipitously since 1991. Production of grain, Kazakstan's major
crop, was only 11.6 million tons in 1996 compared to an average of
about 24 million tons prior to independence and yields per hectare
of all crops are about 60 percent of what they were at that time.
Livestock production also continue to plummet. Use of inputs has
dropped dramatically and farm equipment is not being replaced.
Several factors led to the crisis gripping agriculture. The
collapse of trade and payment mechanisms within the FSU,
particularly the disruption in market outlets and sources of supply
for farm inputs has been difficult. The elimination of directed
credits, and the disappearance of direct subsidies imposed harsh
budget constraints on farms. Much of the collapse in output is an
inevitable result of the loss of subsidies and in the long run
beneficial as resources move to more efficient uses. But, the
hardship was exacerbated by the initial slow pace of price, and
marketing reform. The tax imposed by the failure of farm prices to
move to world market levels was large and the consequences severe
in terms of decreased output and productivity, growing farm debts,
and increased rural poverty.
The Government's objectives for agriculture are to halt the slide



in productivity and output, and to restore growth in rural incomes.
To achieve these objectives, a massive structural transformation of
the sector is required to replace the aging and poorly functioning
agricultural of the Soviet era. The Government envisages an
increasingly market-oriented and diverse agriculture, consisting
both of family farms and larger commercial mechanized farms all
serviced by competitive input and output markets. In this scenario,
Government's role would be limited to creating a policy,
institutional and legal environment conducive to private
initiative. The transformation will entail considerable contraction
in farming as many of the enterprises and much of the land
previously cultivated may not be viable under market conditions.
Moreover, a considerable contraction in the farm labor is likely
and a major challenge facing Government will be to foster
alternative income earning opportunities in rural areas.
To stimulate the transformation in agriculture the Government has
launched comprehensive reforms. Ownership of farms and agro-
enterprises have been passed to private hands, price, trade, and
marketing controls have been lifted, and much of the legal
framework for a market economy has been enacted. As a result,
private agriculture has begun to emerge and market signals are
increasingly guiding resource allocation. Now attention must focus
on the difficult task of farm restructuring. By mid-1996 nearly all
state farms in Kazakstan had become private through the
distribution of property shares and land entitlements to farm
members. In most cases, shareholders selected cooperative or
corporate farm structures, often headed by former managers. Under
these circumstances privatization often has not improved farm
efficiency. Production practices, agronomic practices, and
management systems have changed little from those adopted under
state ownership, and agricultural productivity remains low. Many
farms are not profitable and most seriously indebted to creditors
including the Government, the Agricultural Support Fund (ASF),
Agroprom Bank, and fuel suppliers.
Efficiency levels in the sector will increase over time as farm
managers develop commercial skills, as new ownership structures and
management practices emerge, and as assets are redistributed away
from failed enterprises to more successful ones. However, this
restructuring is taking place very slowly, and Government is deem
to accelerate the process.
Objectives
The objective of the project is to accelerate the restructuring and
improve the efficiency of recently privatized farms. The project
will support both enterprise and creditor led restructuring
processes. Many insolvent farms are not actively pursuing
restructuring programs and will continue to operate inefficiently
as long as debt holders are unable to force restructuring. The
project will test practical mechanisms for using existing
legislation, and build capacity in creditor institutions such as
the ASF, in order to facilitate creditor led restructuring.
- 2-



Description
The project will be implemented in Taldy Kurgan and Akmola oblasts.
It will include three components to support the restructuring
process.
(1)     Advisory services component: The advisory services will
provide both technical and commercial advice to restructuring farm
enterprises. More progressive enterprises will use these services
on a demand driven basis, as demonstrated by the experience of the
TACIS project in Akmola. In other cases farms will need to be
induced to consult advisory services by banks and other creditors.
The advisory process will begin with a strategic review of the
existing enterprise to provide the owners with a broad overview of
the fundamental changes that will be necessary to establish
commercial viability. These could include changes in farm
structure, company status, management, on-farm activities and debt
rescheduling.
(2)     Financing Component: In response to needs for working capital
finance, finance for debt rescheduling and longer term investment
credit among restructured agricultural enterprises, the proposed
project will incorporate a financing component designed to extend
these types of financing to qualified farms which have met program
restructuring criteria and begun implementation of their business
plan. The component objectives are to (a) meet the financing needs
of restructured farms using a delivery strategy which will over
time introduce viable enterprises to the banks and (b) build bank
capacity to analyze, extend and recover agricultural credits.
(3)     Debt-work out and Bankruptcy component: The aim of this
component is to help banks and other creditors initiate
restructuring in problem farms which are failing to respond to the
need to establish commercial operations. There are a number of
reasons why some farms are failing to adjust to the needs of the
market: poor management; managers may be acting in their personal
interests rather than in the interests of the enterprise, and
conflict between the short term objectives of owners and the long
run viability of the farm. In these cases enterprises are unlikely
to use the advisory services on a demand driven basis.
Restructuring is more likely to come about as a result of hard
budget constraints, pressure from creditors and shareholders and
the development of an efficient market for management. The project
will help to strengthen these forces for change in problem farms
through capacity building in creditor institutions, by improving
the flow of information to shareholders and by developing practical
procedures for implementing bankruptcy and liquidation.
Financing
Preliminary estimates of total project costs are about US$50
million with a proposed Bank loan of about US$40 million. This
figure is tentative and will be firmed-up as preparation proceeds.
The Government's contribution would primarily be for salaries,
- 3 -



office accommodation, operation of the voucher scheme for use of
the advisory services, and possibly the financing of any debt work-
out schemes on the restructuring farms. The Government would also
be responsible for all taxes and duties. The Bank loan would cover
consultant services, training, and the financing of business plans
for farms emerging from the restructuring process.
Implementation
Primary responsibility for implementing the project would be given
to the Ministry of Agriculture at the national level and the
respective oblast administrations in the project oblasts. Overall
guidance and coordination could be provided by an inter-ministerial
coordinating committee, perhaps chaired by the Deputy Prime
Minister responsible for agriculture and including members from the
national bank of Kazakstan, the Ministry of Agriculture, Finance,
Justice, and Economy, and the State Land Committee. Day-to-day
project management could be handled by a small Project
Implementation Unit located in the Ministry of Agriculture.
Sustainability
Government must maintain macro-economic stabilization measures and
price, trade and market reform momentum so that the economy
continues to stabilize, private markets become more firmly
established and prices are increasingly determined in a competitive
and open trading environment. Institutional capacity must be
developed: (i) to implement the farm advisory services; (ii)
identify viable restructuring proposals, adequately assess risks,
and oversee lending activities; and (iii) maintain a local policy
environment conducive to commercial agriculture.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A Bank study on farm restructuring in reforming socialist economy
indicated the following requirements for a successful project: (i)
legislation, mechanisms, and processes for the protection of
property rights that define and protect private entitlements and
allow unrestricted entry into and exit from farming; (ii) land
registration system that provides the basis for a market where land
tittles can be traded; (iii) competitive output markets and input
supply channels that effectively replace the monopolies which serve
the collective/state farms; (iv) financial institution that meet
the needs of amonetized agricultural sector; (v) farm support
infrastructure to serve the restructured farms; and (vi) effective
process for land consolidation in cases where the initial stages of
land reform led to the creation of farms which are too small to be
economic under local conditions and the cropping pattern which
reflects the country's comparative advantage. This would prevent
the "small farmer problem" to develop, as in European Union, which
can only be solved as at a high budgetary cost or high social cost.
Bank experience indicates that success of projects involving land
reform would be contingent upon (i) simultaneous actions being
taken to develop an effective input supply system, along with farm
support infrastructure and services to meet the needs of the
- 4 -



beneficiaries of land reform; (ii) a policy environment that does
not penalize agriculture; (iii) active participation of the target
population during both the planning and implementation stages; (iv)
a simple project design with a limited number of project
components; (v) identified productivity increasing technological
packages, and (vi) a careful assessment of the demand for credit,
the profile of likely sub-borrowers; and the institutional
capability of likely financial intermediaries. These lessons are
being taken into account in designing the proposed project to the
extent applicable.
Environmental Aspects
The project is expected to have positive impact on the environment
by supporting on farm improvements. It is expected to foster more
prudent use of land. The ownership of land assets is expected to
instill a greater sense of individual and community responsibility
and measures to protect the environment.
Program Objective Categories
Contact Point:           Roy Southworth, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-9710
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1164
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 15, 1997.
- 5 -



ANNEX
ENVIRONMENTAL
The project is rated in EA Category B. Category B is selected
because of the potential indirect impacts on the
environment/natural resources of farm restructuring. However, the
project is also expected to foster more prudent use of land in
general as ownership of land is expected to instill a greater sense
of individual and community responsibility to use natural resources
sustainably. Major environmental issues could be
overgrazing/degradation of pasture and water resource management
related to restructuring in the agricultural sector. Overgrazing of
pasture could intensify with possible farm labor shedding, and
thereby potential substitution towards extensive livestock farming
by shed labor. New challenges could emerge in water resource
management with the restructuring of farms. Another Environmental
issue is Soil management and agrochemical input use by restructured
farms.
Proposed Project Actions
The advisory services component will include measures to establish
community grazing rights and advice on sustainable utilization of
pasture. Advisory services will include a technical component which
will address soil management and agrochemical use issues. The rural
finance component will include commercial bank initiatives. The
project will provide commercial banks with an environmental manual
and assistance for its application for sub-project lending. Other
Bank projects are addressing the issue of water management in the
agricultural sector.
-6-



