Page  1
CONFORMED COPY          
LOAN NUMBER 4331 KZ
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Post Privatization Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 23, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4331 KZ 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 4, 1998, from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to provide 
post-privatization support for rural enterprises (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the execution of the 
Program through a series of loans of up to $85,000,000 over a period of up to ten (10) 
years to be utilized by the Borrower for the implementation of the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; 
(D)
by agreement (the British Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the British Know-How Fund (BKHF), BKHF is expected to make a grant to the 
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount of UK Pounds Sterling 525,000 (the British 
Grant) to assist in financing a portion of Part A of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the British Grant Agreement;
Page  2
(E)
by agreement (the EU Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the European Union (EU), EU is expected to make a grant to the Borrower in an 
aggregate principal amount of ECU 1,200,000 equivalent to $1,300,000 (the EU Grant) to 
assist in financing a portion of Part B of the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the EU Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Program upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“ACs” means the Advisory Councils referred to in paragraph 6 of Part A of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
“CEL” means the Borrower’s Committee of External Loans established within 
MOF.
(c)
“Free-limit Subloan” means a Subloan, as so defined, which qualifies as a 
free-limit Subloan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of  Part D of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
“MOA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and includes any 
successor or successors thereto.
(e)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and includes any successor 
or successors thereto.
(f)
“PFIs” or “Participating Financial Institutions” means collectively the 
financial institutions selected for participation in the Project in accordance with 
paragraph 2 of Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and “PFI” or “Participating 
Financial Institution” means singularly any one of the said institutions.
(g)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within MOA to 
assist it in carrying out the Project.
(h)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 
2, 1997 and December 26, 1997 between the Borrower and the Bank.
(i)
“RACs” means the Rural Advisory Centers established pursuant to Section 
6.01(a) of this Agreement.
(j)
“Rural Enterprise” means singularly an enterprise to which a PFI proposes 
to make or has made a Subloan; and “Rural Enterprises” means collectively all said 
enterprises.
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(l)
“Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a PFI out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to a Rural Enterprise for a Subproject.
Page  3
(m)
“Subproject” means a specific development project to be carried out by a 
Rural Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan.
(n)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the PFIs pursuant to paragraph 3 of Part B of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; “Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement” means singularly any one of the said agreements; and “Subsidiary Loan” 
means a loan made or proposed to be made under the concerned Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.
(o)
“Tenge” means the lawful currency of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifteen 
million Dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made by a Rural Enterprise under a Subloan to meet the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal from 
the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall 
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable June 15 and December 
15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MOA, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and  
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Page  5
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
(b)
The British Grant or the EU Grant shall have failed to become effective 
by August 31, 1998, or such later date or dates as the Bank may agree; provided, 
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of the British Grant or EU Grant or 
Page  6
any other grant 
or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or 
in part, pursuant to the terms 
of the agreement providing therefor, or 
(B) any such loan shall have become 
due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in paragraph 
(c)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (c)(ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
The RACs have been lawfully constituted and registered in accordance with 
applicable law or regulation. 
(b)
A Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed with at least one PFI. 
(c)
A Law on Registration of Pledges on Moveable Property, satisfactory to 
the Bank, has been promulgated  by the Borrower’s Parliament. 
(d)
The Borrower has appointed an auditor, acceptable to the Bank, to 
undertake the auditing of the accounts under Article IV of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a)
That the RACs have been constituted and registered in accordance with the 
Borrower’s applicable law or regulation. 
(b)
That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, referred to in Section 6.01(b) 
hereof, has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf 
of, the Borrower and the PFI, and is legally binding upon them in accordance with its 
terms. 
Section 6.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  7
Ministry of Finance
Republic Square 60
473000, Akmola
Republic of Kazakhstan
Telex:
264126
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
By /s/ Bolat Nurgaliyev 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kiyoshi Kodera 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
    1,190,000
100%
and training
(2)
Goods (including 2
       20,000
100% of foreign
vechicles)
expenditures, 100%
Page  8
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Subloans
   12,290,000
100% for the first
twelve months; 80%
thereafter
(4)
Incremental operating
      360,000
100% up to December
costs
31, 1999; 80% up to
December 31, 2000; and
60% thereafter
(5)
Refunding of
      853,000
Amounts due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
      287,000
TOTAL
   15,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred by the CEL, PIU and RACs on account of Project implementation, management, 
monitoring and supervision costs, including office equipment and supplies, rent, 
maintenance, communication, vehicle operation, travel and transportation, audit of 
Project accounts, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower; and
(d)
the term “first twelve months” has the same meaning ascribed thereto in 
paragraph 4(b)(iii) of Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $1,500,000, may, subject to sub-paragraphs 3(b) and 3(c) hereof, be made 
in respect of Category 3 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1998;
(b)
in respect of any payments made, unless the Bank has received evidence, 
satisfactory to it, that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has 
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the PFI in respect of which the Borrower 
has requested a withdrawal; and
(c)
in respect of a Subloan unless the Subloan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts costing less 
than $300,000 equivalent each, services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms, and less than $25,000 equivalent for individual 
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
Page  9
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Program is to improve the performance of Rural Enterprises 
in Kazakhstan including: (i) maintaining the Borrower’s policy framework for 
development of private rural enterprises and strengthening the market economy; (ii) 
improving the flow of information, advice and training to newly emerging rural 
enterprises; (iii) supporting the development of rural financial markets and improving 
the access of rural enterprises to commercial financial services; and (iv) introducing 
further legal and institutional reforms to improve the rural financial system and 
strengthen bankruptcy procedures.
The objective of the Project is to: (i) facilitate commercialization of Rural 
Enterprises aimed at increasing farm productivity and higher farm incomes; (ii) assist 
Rural Enterprises to develop business plans that can be used to approach the 
commercial banks for financing; and (iii) strengthen the legal and institutional 
framework for agricultural lending and for bankruptcy of agricultural enterprises, in 
two of the Borrower’s regions, namely, Akmola and Almaty.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
PART A:
RURAL ENTERPRISE ADVISORY SERVICES
1.
Establishment of Rural Advisory Centers in Almaty and Akmola regions to: (a) 
provide direct assistance to Rural Enterprises undergoing restructuring to make the 
necessary changes in ownership structure, management, commercial and technical 
practices to improve productivity and achieve sustainability and financial viability; 
and (b) identify, train and accredit a network of local consultants to provide 
assistance in the preparation of business plans, and managerial, commercial and 
technical advice to Rural Enterprises. 
2.
(a) Improvement of access to information for shareholders of newly privatized 
Rural Enterprises; (b) building local business support infrastructure to deliver 
technical and commercial advice and training to restructuring Rural Enterprises; and 
(c) building local capacity for the provision of advice relating to the resolution of 
social issues arising from the restructuring process. 
3.
Provision and distribution of information focusing on the rights of land 
entitlement and the potential uses of property entitlements in the creation of new 
businesses or in generating income to Rural Enterprise members who are land 
entitlement holders.
4.
Provision of commercial and technical advice to Rural Enterprises for bringing 
about commercial viability, and building local business support infrastructure to 
deliver technical and commercial advice and training to restructuring Rural 
Enterprises including local capacity for the provision of advice relating to the 
resolution of social issues arising from the restructuring process.
PART B:
CREDIT FOR RESTRUCTURED RURAL ENTERPRISES 
1.
Provision of financing through selected participating financial institutions to 
Rural Enterprises that have successfully completed restructuring and have business 
plans with financing proposals that have adequate financial rates of return and 
demonstrated repayment capacity. 
2.
Provision of a line of credit to selected PFIs for the financing of eligible 
Sub-projects.
PART C:
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
1.
Development of an institutional framework to support the longer term development 
of a sustainable rural financial system capable of meeting the sector’s demand for 
credit, including: (a) institution and capacity building of PFI’s to carry out 
liquidation analysis, to initiate restructuring of debtor Rural Enterprises and 
Page  10
practical procedures for debt work out, bankruptcy and liquidation, to facilitate 
creditor led restructurings, and to strengthen creditors’ capacity to initiate 
restructuring through provision of advice and assistance to creditors in utilizing 
regulations for agricultural bankruptcy and liquidation; (b) training of judges, 
liquidators and administrators on issues unique to bankruptcy of agricultural 
enterprises; and (c) provision of advisory services to workers in Rural Enterprises 
facing bankruptcy of their rights and options related to the restructuring of Rural 
Enterprises.
2.
The development of a legal and regulatory framework for agricultural lending, 
including: (a) the development of a crop pledging system and a system of bonded 
warehouses and the use of warehouse receipts as collateral to facilitate secure 
storage and collateralization of crops; (b) provision of assistance in the development 
of legislation, regulations and implementation procedures for using agricultural 
commodities as collateral for commercial bank lending to facilitate secured lending 
such as warehouse receipts and accounts receivable; and (c) the provision of 
assistance in the implementation of legislation on bankruptcy for agricultural 
enterprises and registration of liens on moveable property.
PART D:
PROJECT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT 
Provision of technical assistance, training, equipment and incremental operating 
costs for project management and supervision, including assistance for the 
establishment and operation of a Project Implementation Unit in the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Agriculture. 
***
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
December 15, 2003
320,000 
June 15, 2004
325,000 
December 15, 2004
335,000 
June 15, 2005
345,000 
December 15, 2005
355,000 
June 15, 2006
365,000 
December 15, 2006
380,000 
June 15, 2007
390,000 
December 15, 2007
400,000 
June 15, 2008
415,000 
December 15, 2008
425,000 
June 15, 2009
440,000 
December 15, 2009
450,000 
June 15, 2010
465,000 
December 15, 2010
475,000 
June 15, 2011
490,000 
December 15, 2011
505,000 
June 15, 2012
520,000 
December 15, 2012
535,000 
June 15, 2013
550,000 
December 15, 2013
570,000 
June 15, 2014
585,000 
December 15, 2014
605,000 
June 15, 2015
620,000 
December 15, 2015
640,000 
June 15, 2016
660,000 
December 15, 2016
675,000 
June 15, 2017
695,000 
December 15, 2017
720,000 
June 15, 2018
745,000
Page  11
_________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.  
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 hereof, goods, which 
the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 hereof, goods estimated to 
cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 4 and 5 hereof, goods 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Vehicles, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Direct Contracting
Page  12
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 5 hereof, goods which are of a 
proprietary nature may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
5.
Commercial Practices
Goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $20,000 per contract, may 
be procured at competitive prices in accordance with normal commercial practices, 
acceptable to the Bank, due account being taken also of other relevant factors such as 
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability thereof and availability of 
maintenance and spare parts therefor.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract under Parts B.1, C.1 and C.4 hereof, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
(b)
With respect to the first contract under the first three Subprojects, 
regardless of the procurement method, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for advisory services to Rural Enterprises  under Part B 
of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Individual Consultants
Page  13
Services of consultants for services that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.9 of the 
Consultants Guidelines, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Part A:
General  
1.
The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, C and D of the Project through MOA with 
the assistance of the PIU. The Borrower shall maintain the PIU, comprising such staff 
in adequate numbers and with such functions, powers, funds and facilities as are 
deemed satisfactory by the Bank. 
2.
The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, cause the PIU to prepare, 
by November 30 of each year commencing in 1998, and thereafter furnish forthwith to 
the Bank for review and approval an annual work program that includes targets for 
Rural Enterprises to be restructured, technical assistance requirements, and training 
to be undertaken during the reporting period. 
3.
The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1998, provide environmental training to the 
staff of the PIU, RACs, and PFIs through its Ministry of Environment and Natural 
Page  14
Resources in accordance with a plan agreed with the Bank.
4.
The Borrower shall maintain the RACs with such staff in adequate numbers and 
with such functions, powers, funds and facilities as are deemed satisfactory by the 
Bank. 
5.
The RACs shall, inter alia, be responsible for assisting Rural Enterprises to 
undertake restructuring and ensuring that Rural Enterprises applying for credit under 
the Project meet the required eligibility criteria set forth in Part C hereof.
6.
The RACs shall: (i) by April 30, 1999, formulate a plan for the provision of 
advisory services to Rural Enterprises on the basis of cost recovery and discuss the 
same with the Bank; and (ii) thereafter forthwith implement the said plan taking into 
account the comments thereon, if any, by the Bank. 
7.
The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1998, establish, under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank, and thereafter maintain Advisory Councils, with such functions 
and powers as are deemed satisfactory by the Bank. 
8.
The Borrower shall adopt commercial credit policies and shall phase out its 
prevailing practice of providing interest rate subsidies on agricultural credit from 
budgetary resources. To this end, the Borrower shall, by January 1, 2000, terminate 
all subsidies for agriculture credit from its budgetary resources, except as otherwise 
discussed and agreed with the Bank prior thereto.
9.
The Borrower shall: maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory 
to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about February 15, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and review with the Bank, by March 15, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank 
views on the matter.
Part B:
Participating Financial Institutions 
1.
The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project through PFIs selected for 
participation in the Project pursuant to paragraph 2 hereof.
2.
The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Bank, select financial institutions 
for participation under Part B of the Project in accordance with the eligibility 
criteria, agreed with the Bank, which includes: 
(a)
a valid banking license held by the financial institution; 
(b)
a Certificate of Compliance issued by the National Bank of Kazakhstan 
that the financial institution is in compliance with all banking laws and regulations 
and fully satisfies the prudential regulations, including capital adequacy, limits of 
exposure to one borrower and to insiders, and on open foreign exchange position; 
(c)
accounts and financial statements prepared in accordance with 
International Accounting Standards (IAS); 
(d)
an acceptable audit report of the financial institution covering the most 
recent one year of operations, including a portfolio review, prepared by an 
internationally recognized audit firm in accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing (ISA); 
(e)
an adequate network of branches of the financial institution to serve 
rural clients; 
Page  15
(f)
an acceptable governing body of the financial institution which 
prescribes the overall policy and performs appropriate oversight of the financial 
institution’s operations; 
(g)
expressed interest and experience of the financial institution in lending 
to agricultural clients; 
(h)
internal administrative, operational and financial systems and procedures 
of the financial institution acceptable to the Bank; and 
(i)
expressed willingness of the financial institution to participate in a 
program of capacity building.
3.
(a)
For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall onlend the 
amount of the Loan allocated to Category (3) in the Table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement to the PFIs under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and each of the PFIs under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Bank. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such terms and 
conditions shall include the following: 
(i)
The amount of subsidiary loan to each PFI shall be made available 
in Dollars 
or Tenge; 
(ii)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by the 
concerned 
PFI in Dollars or Dollars equivalent in Tenge to the 
Borrower in equal 
semi-annual installments over fifteen (15) 
years, including a grace period of 
three (3) years; and
(iii)
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balances of the 
Subsidiary Loans 
at a rate acceptable to the Bank and to be determined 
as follows: (a) The 
interest rate for Subsidiary Loans 
denominated in Dollars shall represent the 
prevailing interest rate 
as determined in accordance with Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement 
plus a spread set by the Borrower from time to time, and agreed to 
by the Bank, to compensate the Borrower for: (1) the commitment fee payable in 
respect of the Loan; and (2) the credit risk associated with the Subsidiary 
Loan; and (b) the interest rate for Subsidiary Loans denominated in Tenge 
shall be determined by a methodology acceptable to the Bank 
on the basis of 
similar considerations as applicable for the 
Subsidiary Loans denominated in 
Dollars. 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
or any provision thereof.
4.
(a)
The maximum amount to be made available by the Borrower to the PFIs out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall, for any period of time, be limited to an amount 
corresponding to such specific percentage of the PFIs’ aggregate qualifying Subloan 
disbursements for such period, as shall have been provided for under the terms of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and in accordance with policies of the Borrower 
satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however, that in the case of any particular PFI, 
the percentage of aggregate qualifying Subloan disbursements so specified may not, in 
any event, be in excess of 100 percent for the first twelve months, and 80 percent 
thereafter.
(b)
For purposes of this paragraph: 
(i)
“qualifying Sub-loan disbursements” means amounts under a Subloan 
which have 
been disbursed by a PFI to a Beneficiary for any eligible 
expenditures on 
account of which the PFI is entitled to draw 
(or has drawn) upon the credit 
facility established pursuant to the 
concerned Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
Page  16
(ii)
“aggregate qualifying Sub-loan disbursements” with respect to any 
particular 
PFI in a given period of time, means the aggregate amounts 
of qualifying 
Sub-loan disbursements made by such PFI under 
all Sub-loans to all 
Beneficiaries in such period of 
time; and 
(iii)
“first twelve months” means, for any particular PFI, the period of 
twelve 
months following the date of its Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.
Part C:
Rural Enterprises and Subprojects
1.
The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Bank, select Rural Enterprises and 
Subprojects in accordance with eligibility criteria, agreed with the Bank, including 
the following:
Rural Enterprises. 
(a)
Rural Enterprises. To be eligible for a Subloan, Rural Enterprises shall: 
(a) be 100 percent privately owned and duly registered as a family farm or legal 
entity recognized by applicable law or regulation (joint stock company, production 
cooperative, or a partnership); (b) have a share holding structure that is transparent 
and fully documented (where shares in a legal entity (joint stock company, production 
cooperative, or partnership) have been transferred to the farm managers by the farm 
workers or pensioners, the terms and conditions of those transfers must be fully 
documented in a formal lease or sales agreement that specifies the terms and 
conditions of the transfer); and (c) have undergone or are in the process of 
restructuring and can demonstrate in a business plan their financial and commercial 
viability and ability to repay the loan Subprojects. 
(b)
Subprojects. Eligible subprojects shall include: (a) farming and other 
rural activities such as agro-processing and agro-services that are directly linked to 
Rural Enterprises receiving a Subloan under the Project; (b) contribution in cash or 
in kind towards the cost of a Subproject by a Rural Enterprise of at least 10 percent 
for rehabilitation or modernization, or 25 percent for new expansion; and (c) evidence 
of a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3 over the life of the Subloan, 
calculated on the basis of the Rural Enterprise’s total debts. 
2.
For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the PFIs to 
relend a portion of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to Rural Enterprises under 
Subloan Agreements to be entered into between the PFIs and the Rural Enterprises in 
accordance with the procedures and under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank, including those set forth or referred to in Part D hereof.
3.
The Borrower shall cause each PFI to exercise its rights in relation to each 
Subproject in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement and 
Subloan agreements; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Part D:
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Subloans
1.
Terms and conditions:
(a)
The amount of Subloan to each Rural Enterprise shall be made available in 
Dollars or Tenge.
(b)
The principal amount of the Subloan shall be repaid by the concerned 
Rural Enterprise in Dollars or Tenge to the PFI in equal semi-annual installments over 
a period not exceeding twelve (12) years, including a grace period not exceeding three 
(3) years.
(c)
Interest shall be charged on the principal amount of each Subloan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at the prevailing interest rate under the 
concerned Subsidiary Loan Agreement as determined in accordance with Paragraph 
3(a)(iii) of Part B of this Schedule plus a market-based spread determined by the PFI 
making such Subloan. Additionally, a market-based foreign exchange risk premium shall 
be charged for Subloans denominated in Tenge.
Page  17
(d)
Outstanding Subloans to any one sub-borrower shall not exceed US$500,000, 
provided, however, that under special circumstances, to be determined by the Bank on a 
case by case basis, the amount of each Subloan, up to an aggregate limit of $5,000,000 
equivalent, may be up to $750,000 equivalent.
2.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Subproject shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Subloan for such Subproject shall have been approved by the Bank and 
such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the 
date on which the Bank shall have received the application and information required 
under paragraph 3 (a) of Part B of this Schedule in respect of such Subloan; or
(b)
the Subloan for such Subproject shall have been a free-limit Subloan for 
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the 
Bank shall have received the request and information required under paragraph 3(b) of 
this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Subloan. For the purposes of this 
Agreement, a free-limit Subloan shall be a Subloan for a Subproject in an amount to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of: (i) 
$350,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any other loan, provided for in 
any outstanding loan agreement between the Bank and the Borrower entered into before 
the date of this Agreement, the proceeds of which have been or are being used for 
financing goods and services directly and materially related to such Subproject; or 
(ii) $500,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-limit Subloans financed or 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amounts being 
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
3.
(a)
When presenting a Subloan (other than a free-limit Subloan) to the Bank 
for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Rural Enterprise and 
an appraisal of the Subproject, including a description of the expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and an environmental assessment based 
on environmental guidelines acceptable to the Bank; (ii) the proposed terms and 
conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization of the Subloan; and 
(iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Subloan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Rural Enterprise and the Subproject, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the 
terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before June 30, 2001.
4.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Rural Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case 
of any Subloan the right to:
(a)
require the Rural Enterprise to carry out and operate the Subproject with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
managerial and environmental standards and practices, and to maintain adequate 
records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and consultants’ services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
Page  18
(d)
require that: (i) the Rural Enterprise shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Rural Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Rural Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Rural Enterprise to the use of the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Rural Enterprise to perform its obligations 
under its contract with the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 to 4 set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided, however, 
that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2(b) of Part D of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit 
Subloans may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized 
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, 
shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize 
such withdrawals; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $3,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
Page  19
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
Page  20
the General Conditions.
