Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY
 
October 3, 2001 
Mr. Mazhit T. Esenbayev 
Minister 
Ministry of Finance 
Astana 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
 
Re:  Loan No. 4331-KZ 
Agricultural Post Privatization Project 
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
 
Dear Mr. Esenbayev: 
 
We refer to the loan agreement (the Loan Agreement) for the above-referenced Loan 
between the Republic of Kazakhstan (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated June 23, 1998.  We also refer to Mr. Dunaev’s 
two letters dated July 30, 2001, and September 12, 2001, requesting amendments to the Loan 
Agreement in relation to:  (a) expanding of the geographical area covered by the Project’s credit 
line and rural enterprise advisory services;; (b) permitting the use of the loan proceeds to finance 
Subprojects involving the leasing of capital goods by rural enterprises; (c) increasing the 
permitted maximum lending exposure of Participating Financial Institutions to a single 
Beneficiary under the Project (leasing operations only); (d) increasing the thresholds for the 
Commercial Practices procurement method and eliminating National and International Shopping 
procedures; (e) enabling Subloans to continue to be financed 100% by World Bank loan 
proceeds; (f) reallocating the Loan funds across the disbursement categories; (g) extending the 
Loan closing date; and (h) extending the deadline for submission of Subloan applications. 
 
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to your request and the Loan 
Agreement is amended as follows: 
1. 
In Section 1.02 (l) (the definition of “Subloan”), the words “Rural Enterprise” are 
replaced with the word “Beneficiary”, and the following phrase is added at the end of this 
Section:  “provided, however, that a transaction which is a Qualifying Financing Lease (as 
hereinafter defined) may be considered a Subloan for the purposes of this Agreement.” 
2. 
In Section 1.02 (m) (definition of “Subproject”), the words “Rural Enterprise” are 
replaced with the word “Beneficiary”. 
3. 
Section 1.02 is amended by including the following additional definitions:  
“(p) 
“Beneficiary” means a Rural Enterprise as defined in Section 1.02(j) of 
this Agreement, or a Leasing Company as defined in Section 1.02(r) of this Agreement. 
 
(q) 
“Financing Lease” means any transfer of possession of goods by a 
Leasing Company (as hereinafter defined) or by any other eligible PFI under the project 
to a lessee on the basis of a lease agreement for the purpose of providing the lessee with  
temporary use of the goods for the carrying out of a specific project or investment 
otherwise qualifying under the criteria applicable to Sub-projects, where the 
Page  2
-2- 
October 3, 2001 
 
circumstances indicate (explicitly or otherwise) the intention of the parties to make use of 
the leasing arrangement as a means of extending credit to the lessee, on terms essentially 
equivalent to the terms and conditions for Sub-loans under the Project; and  
 (r) 
“Leasing Company” means a joint-stock company registered under the 
laws of the Borrower pertaining to business enterprises and engaged in the business of 
leasing of capital assets in the territory of the Borrower.” 
4. 
The words “Rural Enterprise” are replaced with the word “Beneficiary” in Section 
2.02(a)(i). 
5. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 2.03 is changed from January 31, 2002 to July 
31, 2003. 
6. 
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is modified and the proceeds of the Credit now read as set 
forth in the Annex I to this letter.  
7. 
The following phrase “, in two of the Borrower’s regions, namely, Akmola and Almaty.” 
is deleted from the end of paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 (description of the objective of the Project).   
8. 
The following phrase “Establishment of Rural Advisory Centers in Almaty and Akmola 
regions” in Paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 2 is amended to read “Provision of consulting 
services”. 
9. 
The title of Part B of the Project in Schedule 2 is amended from “CREDIT FOR 
RESTRUCTURED RURAL ENTERPRISES” to “CREDIT 
AND EQUIPMENT LEASING
 FOR 
RESTRUCTURED RURAL ENTERPRISES”. 
10. 
Paragraphs 2 and 3 of Part C of Section I of Schedule 4 are deleted, and paragraphs 4 and 
5
are re-numbered as paragraphs 2 and 3.
 
11. 
The amount in Paragraph 5 of Part C of Section I of Schedule 4 is changed from $20,000 
to 1,000,000.  
12. 
Paragraph 2 of Part B of Schedule 5 is amended to read as set forth in the Annex II to this 
Letter. 
 
13. 
The following phrase at the end of paragraph 4(a) of Part B of Schedule 5 is deleted:  
 
“provided, however, that in the case of any particular PFI the percentage of aggregate 
qualifying Subloan disbursements so specified may not, in any event, be in excess of 100 
percent for the first twelve months, and 80 percent thereafter”. 
 
14. 
A new paragraph 5 of Part B of Schedule 5 is inserted to read: 
“5. 
In the case of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with a Leasing Company which is 
acting as a PFI under the Project, the Leasing Company shall obtain an unconditional 
enforceable guarantee under the laws of the Borrower issued by a bank acceptable to the 
MOA and the Bank, in an amount adequate to cover any principal and interest due 
thereunder.” 
 
Page  3
-3- 
October 3, 2001 
 
15. 
The words “Rural Enterprises” are replaced with the word “Beneficiaries” in the title, in 
the first paragraph and in Sub-paragraph (a) of Paragraph 1, and in Paragraph 2 of Part C of 
Schedule 5.  Te words “Rural Enterprise’s” are replaced with the word “Beneficiary’s” after the 
word “the” before the word “total”, in Paraagraph 1(b) of Part C of Schedule 5. 
 
16. 
The following phrase is added after “Subloans” before “to” in Paragraph 1(d) of Part D of 
Schedule 5: 
 
“except as provided in sub-paragraph (e) of this paragraph with respect to Subloans made 
to Beneficiaries which are Leasing Companies engaged in lease transactions eligible 
under Part B of the Project.” 
 
17. 
A new Paragraph 1 (e) of Part D of Schedule 5, as follows: 
 
“(e) 
In the case of a Subloan proposed to be made by a PFI for a Subproject, where 
the Beneficiary is a Leasing Company, the maximum borrowing amount permitted to a 
single such Leasing Company shall not exceed $2,000,000 or an amount in accordance 
with the prevailing banking regulations of the Borrower pertaining to limits on single-
borrower exposure of banks, whichever is lower.” 
 
18. 
The date referred to in Paragraph 3(c) of Part D of Schedule 5 is changed from June 30, 
2001 to January 31, 2003. 
 
19. 
The words “Rural Enterprise” are replaced with the word “beneficiary” in Part D of 
Schedule 5. 
 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing, dating and 
returning to us the attached copy of this letter.  This amendment will become effective as of the 
date hereof upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Amendment Letter countersigned by you. 
 
Page  4
-4- 
October 3, 2001 
 
Due to their interest in this project, I have taken the opportunity to copy this letter to Mr. 
Akhmetzhan Essimov, Minister of Agriculture, and Mr. Philippe Peeters, World Bank Executive 
Director 
 
Sincerely, 
 
/s/ :Dennis de Tray 
Country Director 
Central Asia Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
Attachments (2) 
 
cc: 
Mr. Akhmetzhan Assimov, Minister of Agriculture 
 
Mr. Philippe Peeters, World Bank Executive Director 
 
AGREED: 
 
GOVERNMENT OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
By:  /s/  Mazhit Esenbayev 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Title:  Minister of Finance 
 
Date:  November 14, 2001 
 
Page  5
-5- 
October 3, 2001 
 
Annex I
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Consultants’ services 
 
 
    1,190,000 
 
100% 
 and 
training 
 
(2) 
Goods (including 2 
 
 
       286,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 vehicles)       expenditures, 
100% 
 
of
local expendi- 
 
tures (ex-factory 
 
cost) and 85% of 
 
local expenditures 
 
for other items 
 
procured locally 
 
(3) 
Subloans 
 
 
 
   12,290,000 
 
100%  
 
(4) 
Incremental operating 
 
 
      856,000 
 
100% up to December 
 costs 
       31, 
1999; 
80% 
up 
to 
 
December 31, 2000; 
 
and 60% thereafter 
 
(5) 
Refunding of 
 
 
 
      97,083.46 
 
Amounts due 
 Project 
Preparation 
     pursuant 
to 
Section 
 Advance       2.02 
(c) 
of 
this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Unallocated 
 
 
 
      280,916.54 
 
TOTAL     
 
 
15,000,000
Page  6
-6- 
October 3, 2001 
 
Annex II
SCHEDULE 5 
Part B
:
Participating Financial Institutions
2. 
The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Bank, select financial institutions for 
participation under Part B of the Project in accordance with the eligibility criteria, agreed with the 
Bank, including those criteria referred to in paragraph 2(a) and (b) of Part B of this Schedule. 
 
(a) 
Eligibility criteria for Participating Financial Institutions that are banks include: 
 
(i) 
a valid banking license held by the financial institution;  
 
(ii) 
a Certificate of Compliance issued by the National Bank of Kazakhstan that the 
financial institution is in compliance with all banking laws and regulations and fully satisfies the 
prudential regulations, including capital adequacy, limits of exposure to one borrower and to 
insiders, and on open foreign exchange position;  
 
(iii) 
accounts and financial statements prepared in accordance with International 
Accounting Standards (IAS);  
 
(iv) 
an acceptable audit report of the financial institution covering the most recent one 
year of operations, including a portfolio review, prepared by an internationally recognized audit 
firm in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA);  
 
(v) 
an adequate network of branches of the financial institution to serve rural clients;  
 
(vi) 
an acceptable governing body of the financial institution which prescribes the 
overall policy and performs appropriate oversight of the financial institution’s operations;  
 
(vii) 
expressed interest and experience of the financial institution in lending to 
agricultural clients;  
 
(viii) 
internal administrative, operational and financial systems and procedures of the 
financial institution acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(ix) 
expressed willingness of the financial institution to participate in a program of 
capacity building. 
(b) 
Eligibility criteria for Participating Financial Institutions that are Leasing Companies 
include: 
(i) 
to the satisfaction of the Bank: (aa) a sound organizational structure suited to 
managing a large number of relatively small-value leases in a cost-effective manner; (bb) a 
marketing apparatus geared to addressing the lease financing needs of a diverse and informal class 
of enterprises; and (cc) strategic corporate objectives and current operations which are compatible 
with the objectives of the Project; 
(ii) 
guidelines setting out their strategies, operating policies and procedures to the 
satisfaction of the Bank;  
Page  7
-7- 
October 3, 2001 
 
(iii)  
an unqualified financial statement audited by external auditors in accordance 
with internationally accepted auditing principles; 
(iv) 
compliance with all existing, and agreement to comply with all future, prudential 
regulations of the Borrower applicable to leasing companies; and 
(v) 
a debt/equity ratio and a debt service coverage-ratio within the limits of the 
guidelines adopted by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  8
-8- 
October 3, 2001 
 
M:\BACKUP\KAZAKHSTAN\AMEND\LN4331Agricultural Post Amendment
 
