Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14010-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
MAY 11, 1995
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Riel
1 US dollar = 2,613 riels
(as of February, 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          Asian Development Bank
CARERE    Cambodia Resettlement and Reintegration Operation
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GNP          Gross National Product
ICORC        International Committee on the Reconstruction of Cambodia
IDA          International Development Association
ILO          International Labor Organization
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
SFKC         The Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
TA           Technical Assistance
UN           United Nations
UNDP         United Nations Development Organization
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WHO          World Health Organization
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 3 1



i
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                             iii
L     INTRODUCTION                                                      1
II.   ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONTEXT
A.    Economic Context                                           2
B.    Social Context                                             3
C.    Institutional Setting                                      5
III. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR BANK
INVOLVEMENT
A.    Government's Development Strategy                          6
B.    Rationale for Bank Involvement                             6
C.    Lessons from Social Fund Experience                        7
IV.   THE PROJECT
A.    Origins of the Project                                     9
B.    Project Objectives                                         9
C.    SFKC Institutional Framework                               9
D.    SFKC Operational Procedures                                10
E.    Project Components                                         11
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    SFKC Organizational Structure and Functions                13
B.    Sub-Project Cycle                                          14
C.    Monitoring and Evaluation                                  18
D.    Reporting and Supervision                                  19
E.    Environmental Impact                                       20
VI.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.    Estimated Costs and Financing Plan                         21
B.    Procurement                                                23
C.    Disbursement                                               26
D.    Accounts and Auditing                                      26



VII.  BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                    28
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                 29
ANNEXES
Annex A:    SFKC Royal Decree and Statutes                                  31
Annex B:    Royal Decree appointing Board of Directors                      38
Annex C:    Eligibility Principles                                          40
Annex D:    Sub-project Menu                                                42
Annex E:     Technical Assistance                                           43
Annex F:     Functional Responsibilities of SFKC Departments                45
Annex G:    Outline of Operational Manual                                   49
Annex H:    Outline of Administrative Manual                                53
Annex I:     Project Cycle                                                  55
Annex J:     SFKC Performance Indicators                                    56
Annex K:    Detailed Project Costs                                          57
Annex L:     Procurement and Disbursement Methods                           58
Annex M:    Disbursement Profile                                            59
Annex N:    Documents contained in Project File                             60
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal mission which visited Cambodia from March 6-20,
1995 comprised of C. Chamberlin (Mission Leader, EA1HR), S. Forster (EAIHR), M. El-Erian (Country
Counsel, LEGEA), V. Wickrema (Sr. Budget and Financial Specialist, EAPCA), S. Carvalho (Economist,
ESP), R. Cisneros (Social Fund Operations Specialist, consultant), and G. Paez (Finance and
Administration Specialist, consultant). Other important contributions to project preparation were made by
C. Bun Rong (PPU General Director), M. Naur (sociologist), and S. Pendergast (PPU consultant). The
peer reviewers for the project are M. Barton-Dock (AF3AE) and J. Newrman (LA2HR). The Division
Chief is J. Shivakumar (EA1HR) and the Department Director is C. Madavo (EA1DR).



iii
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Kingdom of Cambodia
Implementing Agency:    Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia (SFKC)
Beneficiary:             Not applicable
Poverty:                 Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                  SDR 13.4 million (US$ 20 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity and 10 years of grace
Commitment Fee:          0.5% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:         Not applicable
Financing Plan:          See para. 6.4
Net Present Value:       Not applicable
Project ID Number:       KH-PA-37088



iv
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
Basic Social and Economic Indicators (1994)
GDP per capita (US$)                               200
Total area (kn2)                                 181,000
Population                                     8.64 million
Rural population (% of total)                      85%
Population in capital city (% of total)            12%
Life Expectancy (years)                            51
Infant Mortality (per 1000 live births)            116
Under 5 mortality rate                             184
Total fertility rate (births per woman)             6
Crude birth rate (per 1,000 population)           40-48
Crude death rate (per 1,000 population)           12-19
Percentage households headed by women              25
Access to health services (% of total population)  53
Population per doctor                             12,000
Population per nurse                              1,258
Population per hospital bed                        478
Ratio of amputees to total population             1/236
Adult literacy rate                                35%
Gross primary enrollment rate                     114%
Gross secondary enrollment rate                   29%
Access to safe water supply - % urban population   20
Access to safe water supply - % rural population    12
Access to sanitation - % urban population           16
Access to sanitation - % rural population           9
Sources: Social Indicators of Development, World Bank 1994; Education Sector Review, ADB, 1994; National
Health Plan, Kingdom of Cambodia, 1994; Cambodia: From Rehabilitation to Reconstruction, World Bank, 1994;
Population of Cambodia, J. Desbarats 1993. Note should be taken that most of these indicators are rough
estimates based on limited survey data and Government statistics.



CHIAPTER I
INTRODUCTION
1.1    Cambodia has recently emerged from two decades of civil conflict, social upheaval
and a command economy. Today, following a UN brokered peace agreement in 1991 and
subsequent elections in May 1993, a coalition government is in power which has embarked
on a rehabilitation and reconstruction program aimed at putting the country back on the
path of economic and social development.
1.2   The Royal Government has made it a high priority to direct donor assistance to
rural areas that have long been neglected or insecure. Much of the country's
infrastructure is in a state of disrepair or totally destroyed, with many areas lacking
adequate schools, clinics, water supply and local roads. The opportunity to address these
needs coincides, unfortunately, with a lack of experience and capacity in the central
ministries to organize and deliver such investments on a national scale. Developing such
capacity will take time, and in the meantime, under the current situation, the rural poor
must depend on their own meager resources and the limited budgets of provincial
governments to rebuild infrastructure and restore basic services.
1.3   Several features of present day Cambodia, however, encourage a more positive
outlook for investing in poor, neglected areas of the country. Circumstances have forced
communities and local governments to operate autonomously of the central government
for many years, and communities, working with small contractors, have managed to
undertake some local projects, especially if foreign financial assistance was available. The
local contracting and building industry is, therefore, represented throughout much of the
country and a relatively large number of NGOs are operating on a local level and have
developed considerable expertise in service provision and community development.
Overall, therefore, there is widespread local capacity to undertake small, relatively simple
construction projects. However, financing remains a major constraint to carrying out such
projects in any large numbers.
1.4   In response to this situation, in March 1994, the Government expressed its interest
in creating a social fund. A social fund is a demand-driven financing mechanism that aims
to target an increased level of investment to poor areas where basic infrastructure and
services are badly damaged or destroyed. Patterned after the successful experience of
social funds in Latin America and Africa, the Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia
(SFKC) would finance, on a grant basis, small-scale projects to support the rehabilitation
of social and economic infrastructure and social services. The proposed project would
support the establishment and operations of SFKC through an IDA credit of $20 million;
$16.8 million to finance seed capital for project financing, $1.7 million for budget support
for the SFKC's start-up and operations, $0.5 million for technical assistance and training
of SFKC staff in project management activities, and $1 million unallocated. Based on the
experience of other social funds, if SFKC is successful in its operations, it is expected that
the demand for its services will quickly exceed this budget, and it will be able to attract
additional financing for a program totaling at least $40 million. The institutional capacity
of SFKC will be developed under the project to manage this expansion of the operational
budget and sub-project activity.



IUIIIUUOIYVI "i - L o LLILIal guVV SilhiiiivIiL
2
CHAPTER H
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONTEXT
A.   Economic Context
2.1   In September 1993, following UN administered elections, Cambodia established itself as a
fledgling democracy under a new constitution, with the constitutional monarch as head of state.
The ultimate objective of the new Government is to rebuild the country and to realize its full
economic potential while reducing poverty, which is pervasive throughout the country. With an
estimated per capita GDP of US$200, Cambodia is one of the poorest countries in the world.
Most of the poor are concentrated in the rural areas, where over 80 percent of the population
lives, though the exact number and location of people living below the poverty line are yet to be
determined.
2.2   On the macroeconomic front, the Government's immediate task on coming to power was
to control the high rate of inflation and deteriorating fiscal situation. In late 1992, a series of
stabilization measures were taken, in consultation with the World Bank and the 1IMF, which
effectively arrested the economic decline. Inflation was brought under control, the exchange rate
stabilized and economic growth was relatively strong -- official data show real GDP growth of
4.1% in 1993 and 4.0% in 1994. However, despite this good performance, the country's
economic situation remains precarious. The Government depends heavily on donors for budget
support, as internal revenue mobilization is extremely low. Furthermore, growth has been
unevenly distributed across the economy and the country, coming largely from the urban-based
construction and service sectors, not from agriculture and the rural economy on which over 80%
of the population depend.
2.3   The Government's long term objective is to achieve sustainable and equitable growth. Its
immediate objectives under the 1995-97 macroeconomic framework agreed with the LMF and the
Bank are to reach a 7.5% GDP growth rate by 1997, to consolidate recent stablization efforts and
to reduce the rate of inflation to 10% in 1995 and 5% in 1997. Maintaining macroeconomic
stability will require continued fiscal and monetary restraint and taking tough measures to raise
government revenue. These macroeconomic policies will be accompanied by continued efforts to
put in place the building blocks for a market economy, including establishing transparent and
accountable legal and judicial systems, implementing structural reforms in the financial sector,
civil service and public enterprises, and normalizing relations with the international financial
community.



3
2
B.    Social Context
2.4    Cambodia's recent political and economic history have taken an enormous toll on both the
people and the physical infrastructure of the country. During the period 1970-79, between 1.5
and 3.5 million people lost their lives and another half a million people became refugees. Virtually
all infrastructure was destroyed, as were many of the country's institutions.
2.5   Today, despite the notable progress made since the 1980s, the consequences of this
devastation are still apparent. The country suffers from a lack of educated people, making human
resources development and capacity building top priorities. An uncommonly high proportion of
the adult population are women -- 25% of households are estimated to be headed by women, and
these households are generally among the poorest. In addition, there are a large number of
orphans and people who have been physically disabled during the war; one out of every 236
people in Cambodia is an amputee, injured by landmines, the highest national proportion of
disabled people in the world.
2.6    Added to these problems, are those common to poor countries around the world.
Available (though incomplete) data suggest that life expectancy at birth in Cambodia is only 51
years, the infant mortality rate of 116 per thousand live births is more than three times the regional
average; mean years of schooling remain low; only 53 percent of the population have access to
health services; and access to safe water is extremely low, particularly in rural areas.
2.7    Education. Cambodia is in the process of rebuilding its formal education system, which
was effectively destroyed during the 1975-79 period. Since the 1980s, impressive progress has
been made in rehabilitating school buildings and enrolling children in primary and secondary
schools. A beginning has also been made in pre-school, technical and vocational education, as
well as in adult literacy programs.
2.8    However, much remains to be done. There is still a widespread shortage of competent
and adequately qualified teachers and severe budget constraints have caused a neglect of
educational infrastructure at all levels. Many facilities destroyed during the war have yet to be
rebuilt and those that exist are often very run-down. Recent building audits show that roughly
half of the existing 27,000 classrooms are in need of repair and/or reconstruction. Communities
are bearing the brunt of the cost of infrastructure provision and maintenance, which is often
beyond their means. Inadequate administrative and managerial capacity within the Ministry of
Education remains a key constraint to the effective implementation of policies and programs in the
sector.
2.9   Recently, major efforts have been made to improve policy development and program
planning to achieve the Government's overall objective of high quality education for all. The
Government has prepared a medium-term investment plan for basic education for the period
2
Further details of the social context of this project are provided in the social assessment carried out during project
preparation. See Maja Naur, 1994 Social and Institutional Aspects of a Social Fund Project in Cambodia.



4
1995-2000, with the assistance of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and other donors. The
main policy objectives of this program are (i) improve the quality of primary and lower secondary
school education through improvements in curriculum, textbook and instructional support
materials and teacher training; (ii) assure equitable access to six years of primary schooling,
linked to gradual expansion of lower secondary schooling, through school building rehabilitation
and targeting of schooling to ensure education for girls and minorities; and (iii) strengthen
govemment's planning and management capability, at central, provincial and district levels.
2.10   Health. As in the education sector, the Government faces major challenges in the health
sector. Malaria and tuberculosis are spreading almost unchecked in rural areas; child mortality
from preventable diseases is high for a country of Cambodia's level of development; and public
health services are unavailable or ineffective over large parts of the country.
2.11   Since mid- 1992, significant progress has been made in improving the situation. The flow
of donor assistance to the sector has accelerated sharply; the availability of pharmaceuticals in
private markets and public facilities has increased throughout the country; fiscal reforms have
paved the way for the first truly national health budget in many years; and a comprehensive
planning process has identified program objectives, needs and timetables.
2.12  However, a number of constraints to the implementation of an effective public health
policy and program remain, including (i) the low allocation of budgetary resources to the health
sector; (ii) donor agencies have largely bypassed central government in favor of direct assistance
to public health facilities at the local level, resulting in a lack of coordination within the sector;
(iii) the qualifications of practicing health professionals are extremely low, largely due to the years
of conflict; (iv) the physical infrastructure of the public health system has suffered from years of
neglect; (v) the public health system has been greatly decentralized in its management and
financing, with inadequate policy guidance from the central ministry; and (vi) low salaries and
various other factors have led public health personnel to request and receive private fees from
patients within public facilities. This latter practice leads to biases against the poor and to
inefficiencies in the utilization of public health services that should be provided free of charge.
2.13   The Ministry of Health has begun rebuilding a national health system through an intensive
process of health policy development and program planning assisted by WHO, UNICEF, UNDP
and the World Bank. The policy goals articulated by the Government are first, to reestablish
functioning primary health services; second, to strengthen the national programs aimed at the
principal communicable and preventable diseases; and third, to improve the capacity of the health
system to perform basic functions and to manage resources effectively.
2.14   Rural Roads. The rehabilitation of roads in Cambodia is a prerequisite for the
reconstruction of the country as a whole. Due to the dilapidated state of many primary and
secondary roads, large parts of the country are effectively isolated. In these areas, local markets
can only be accessed at very high costs or not at all, supply routes for essential commodities are
threatened and basic social services cannot be provided. Expanding the repair and rehabilitation
of rural roads is a high Government priority, as part of the overall effort to improve rural
infrastructure and reduce poverty. Particular emphasis will need to be placed on linking rural



5
roads to the rehabilitated national roads in order to allow farmers to transport their surplus to
markets and to help integrate markets. To date, the main actors in rural road rehabilitation have
been UNDP's CARERE program and the ILO, both of which support labor-intensive road
rehabilitation programs.
2.15 Water Supply and Sanitation. Water supply services were brought to a complete stop
during the 1975-79 period. Though NGOs have been involved in the rehabilitation of water
supply and sanitation systems since the mid-I 980s, the level of services remains extremely low,
with about 20 percent of the urban population and 12 percent of the rural population having
access to a safe and reliable source of water. UNICEF has been the main agency supporting the
development of water points in rural areas and of policies for maintenance. Expansion of rural
water supply projects, which are currently constrained by financial difficulties and lack of skilled
workers, is called for with attention being paid as to how to involve local populations more
actively in construction and maintenance.
C.    Institutional Setting
2.16  Given the years of war and recent establishment of the Government, management capacity
within the government, at both central and provincial levels, is still weak. Lack of budgetary
resources compounds the problem as many key ministries lack the minimum staff and basic
equipment and supplies necessary to carry out their duties. Central ministries are responsible for
establishing overall policies and directing Government programs, but provincial administrations
have a high degree of autonomy and often act independently of central government. This lack of
communication has led to inadequate coordination between central and local levels and lack of
supervision at the local level.
2.17   Donors, UN agencies and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) have played an
important role in Cambodia since the 1980s, particularly in the health, education and rural
development sectors. In many instances, they have taken defacto responsibility for local level
service delivery and community development activities directly, with little or no coordination with
the central Government. However, as the Government has gained strength and capacity to
manage programs, communication and coordination between the Government and NGOs has
improved.
2.18  There is a substantial NGO presence in Cambodia, comprising about 90 international and
40 local NGOs. The majority rely on financing from bilateral and multilateral donors, including
USAID, the European Union and the French Government. Many of the international NGOs have
moved their activities to Cambodia in the last 2-3 years, having worked in the refugee camps
previously, whereas the majority of the local NGOs started their activities in the last two years.
Though the overall implementation capacity of NGOs varies greatly, in general, their wide-
ranging experience and expertise in community programs and service delivery and increasing
willingness to coordinate activities with the Government will make them valuable partners for
SFKC.



6
CHAPTER III
GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
A.    Government's Social Development Strategy
3.1   The overarching objective of the Royal Government is to achieve sustainable growth with
equity and social justice. As laid out in the 1994 "National Programme to Rehabilitate and
Develop Cambodia", this translates into a commitment to (a) reform the State, its institutions and
its public service so as to achieve political and socio-economic priorities; (b) rely on private
entrepreneurship and the market as engines of growth; (c) double the present level of GDP by
2004 in real terms; (d) extend health, educational and social services to the entire population; (e)
improve rural living standards by promoting rural development as a central development priority;
(f) ensure that the pattern of development is sustainable socially, politically, fiscally and
environmentally; and (g) strengthen domestic self-reliance so as to reduce dependence on external
assistance.
3.2   A central element of the Government's strategy is to provide direct support for sustained
development through public investment programs in infrastructure rehabilitation, health, education
and rural development. Rehabilitating and reconstructing physical infrastructure is seen as critical
to reducing bottlenecks to development, as is widening access to social services, especially among
women and disadvantaged groups. The Government plans to pay particular attention to
developing the country's rural areas, where the majority of the poor live, and to ensuring that the
more remote areas of the country gradually become integrated into society's mainstream.
3.3   The greatest hurdle the Government faces in achieving these objectives, aside from a lack
of financial resources, is the limited capacity of key line ministries to design and implement
appropriate programs and projects. Thus, a central element of the Government's strategy is to
strengthen the capacity of line ministries to improve service delivery and increase their absorptive
capacity. The Ministries of Education, Health and Agriculture have been targeted as priorities in
terms of capacity building. However, developing such capacity will take time. Given the urgent
need to increase public investment, the Government has proposed the establishment of a social
fund, as a mechanism to provide rapid and effective financing to small sub-projects proposed by
governmental and non-governmental entities.
B.    Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.4   For social, political and economic reasons it is imperative to increase public investment
and employment opportunities in the poor areas of Cambodia quickly. A social fund provides a
financing mechanism that is well-suited to such a task and to current conditions and capacities in
Cambodia. It is flexible, demand-driven and can respond rapidly to local needs. As such, it
would be a productive interim measure to put Government resources to work for the benefit of
the poor and enable the Government to deliver tangible project assistance to under-served rural
and urban areas at this crucial early stage of its tenure in power.



7
3.5   The project is a key element of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). In
particular, it supports one of the main objectives of the CAS which is to support critical
rehabiliation and reconstruction that will have a significant impact quickly. In line with the spirit
of the CAS, the Social Fund Project is an innovative project that takes advantage of available
opportunities and capacities to channel investment effectively to the poor. Thus, it aims to
increase household incomes while contributing to the rehabilitation of social services needed for
longer-term human resource development.
3.6   The interest and commitment of the Royal Government to the Social Fund project is high,
as clearly demonstrated by the speed with which the Government created SFKC and carried out
preparation and appraisal activities. Political support for the project is strong at all levels of
goverrunent, from the Prime Ministers, to line ministries to local government officials. Donors
and NGOs have also expressed strong support for the Social Fund Project.
3.7    Relationship with other Bank-financed Projects. The Bank is at an early stage of
involvement in Cambodia. To date, two IDA credits have been approved (the Emergency
Rehabilitation Project credit and the Technical Assistance Project credit), though further projects
are under preparation, including an Economic Recovery Credit, a power project, a health
development project and a rural development project. The relationship of the Social Fund with
other IDA-financed operations is expected to be complementary, not competitive. At the policy
level, the Social Fund's activities would be guided by the development of sector strategies
supported by other Bank-financed projects. At the operational level, SFKC projects will be
simple, low-cost investments managed and executed by local entities and contractors. As such
they will not involve the strong technical input typical of more complex and integrated Bank
projects nor will they overlap with them. Mechanisms to coordinate with the relevant line
ministries would be established, at both the central and local level, so as to ensure that SFKC-
financed projects fall within local development plans and to encourage coordination at the
operational level. If SFKC proves successful at establishing an efficient and cost-effective means
of providing small-scale public infrastructure, it could be used by other Bank-financed projects,
such as the health and agriculture projects, to carry out small-scale public works.
C.    Lessons from Social Fund Experience
3.8   The Bank has financed over 30 social fund type operations since 1987, mainly in Latin
America and Africa, accumulating considerable experience in the process. The design of the
proposed project incorporates the lessons from these operations. In particular, to ensure the
transfer of knowledge to the Cambodian Social Fund team, during project preparation the Bank
provided the Government with substantial technical assistance and advice from current and former
staff of the Bolivia and Ecuador social funds and from Bank staff involved in the design of other
social fund projects.
3.9    At a conceptual level, the most relevant lessons learned from prior experience are:
a) a social fund should be considered as only one element of a much broader poverty reduction
strategy; it should not been seen as a panacea for reducing poverty.



8
b) while the overall objective of the social fund needs to be clearly framed, experience shows that
social funds can serve a number of purposes simultaneously. These include contributing to
the decentralization of service delivery, building the capacity of grassroots organizations and
other implementing agencies and bringing NGOs into a more cooperative and coordinated
relationship with the Government. In the case of Cambodia, the social fund may help in the
democratization process, by providing local governments and communities with increased
control over local development decisions and project implementation. It will also help private
sector development by increasing the turnover and capacity of small and medium sized
enterprises, particularly those in the construction industry.
c) the lesson from experience as to whether social funds should be purely temporary, short-term
mechanisms is not yet conclusive. The Emergency Social Fund in Bolivia is the only fund
technically to close thus far, and this was succeeded by a Social Investment Fund that
effectively continued the operations of the Fund. In general, flexibility and regard for the
country context are called for in determining the fiuture direction of a social fund. The
Statutes of SFKC provide for optional renewal of the its' five year mandate by Royal Decree.
3.10. At an operational level, the main lessons which have influenced the design ofthe proposed
project are:
a) the importance of institutional auto7nomy and freedom from political interference for the
Social Fund.
b) the need for transparency and accountability. A comprehensive operational manual, effective
management information system, standardized reporting, contracting of independent
evaluations, and systematically gaining the feedback from sub-project beneficiaries are all
tools to help ensure transparency.
c) the need to attract high caliber, motivated staff by maintaining a non-bureaucratic
environment and paying competitive salaries.
d) mechanisms for sector coordination with line ministries should be flexible enough not to
compromise the independence and efficiency of the fund.
e) the need for close involvement of provincial and district governments in the project cycle to
improve overall coordination and project sustainability.
f) the importance of outreach activities, including promotional activities, facilitation and
training, to reach the poorest regions and targeted beneficiaries and to find qualified sub-
projects.  Outreach activities can also play a useful role in promoting transparency and
openness and generating public confidence in SFKC's integrity.
g) the importance of using some monitorable, albeit simple, targeting plan to reach the poor.
h) the need for community "ownership " of the sub-projects to ensure sustainability.
i) simplified procurement proceduires and rapid and timely payment of contractors are
necessary conditions for efficient and rapid sub-project implementation.
j) the need for strong supervision mechanisms at both managerial and sub-project levels.



9
CHAPTER IV
THE PROJECT
A.    Origins of the Project
4.1   The preparation of this project emerged out of discussions with the Royal Government in
March 1994 about the possibility of establishing a social fund. The Government expressed a
strong interest in the idea, regarding a social fund as a mechanism well-suited to fill the urgent
need for additional financing of infrastructure and employment generating activities in the poor
and underserved areas of the Kingdom. The Government was quick to follow-up this
commitment with action, and in July 1994 a preparation mission took place, after which the
Government established a Social Fund Project Preparation Unit (PPU) to carry out preparation
activities and appointed its Project Director. Pre-appraisal of the project was carried out in
October 1994 and by the end of December 1994, the Government had enacted Royal Decrees
creating the Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia (SFKC) as an autonomous Government
institution and appointing the Board of Directors. The project was appraised and negotiated in
March 1995.
B.    Project Objectives
4.2   The objectives of the project are to support the Government's to reduce poverty through:
(a) financing small-scale projects for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of social and economic
infrastructure, and other socially productive activities; (b) creating short-term employment
opportunities; (c) expanding community opportunities to identify local development needs and
manage small-scale development projects; and (d) increasing line ministry experience and capacity
in developing investment criteria for local infrastructure construction.
C.   Institutional Framework of SFKC
4.3   The Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia (SFKC) has been created by Royal Decree
as an autonomous public institution under the Office of the Prime Minister. Given its autonomous
status, the Royal Government agreed during negotiations that a separate Fund Agreement,
satisfactory to IDA, would be entered into between the Government and SFKC. In particular, it
was agreed that, under this the Fund Agreement, the Government will make the proceeds of the
Credit available to SFKC on a non-reimbursable grant basis. As a condition of effectiveness, the
Fund Agreement shall have been signed and entered into effect between the Government and
SFKC (para. 8.3 (a)). The organization and management of SFKC are laid out in its Statutes (see
Annex A) which were approved by the Royal Government in December 1994. According to the
statutes, the co-Prime Ministers will act as the co-Presidents of SFKC. They will be responsible
for proposing the appointment of the members of the Board of Directors, comprising
representatives from the Government, judiciary, private sector and non-governmental
organizations, and have ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the objectives of SFKC are
implemented effectively.



10
4.4   The Board of Directors is composed of eleven members including the General Director of
SFKC, whose appointments were decided by Royal Decree in December 1994 (Annex B). The
Board, which would meet every six months, is responsible for approving the policies, procedures
and budget of SFKC, approving and ratifying any agreements SFKC may enter into for financial
support from international financial organizations or bilateral donors, and for defining the scope
and content of reports to be submitted by the Executive Committee to the Board.
4.5   The Executive Committee, comprised of five members of the Board and the General
Director, shall represent the Board in carrying out the Board's policies and approving applications
for sub-project financing. It would meet at least every two weeks as the Chairman may decide.
The General Director will be responsible for managing and administering the day-to-day
operations of SFKC in accordance with its operational policies and procedures.
D.    Operational Procedures
4.6   SFKC will act as a financial intermediary. It will not be involved in project identification,
preparation and implementation of projects, but will accept and appraise applications for sub-
project financing from eligible applicants, which include community groups, local governments,
and local and international NGOs, and will supervise sub-project implementation. Applicant
eligibility is defined separately for each sub-project type depending on its nature. For example, a
local water user group would be the eligible applicant for a water supply project; for a schools
project, the school parents committee or school director could apply; and in the case of a rural
roads project, the district authority would be eligible to apply. Applicant eligibility is designed
such that those eligible are the lowest-level entity able to assume responsibility for the operation
and maintenance of the project. As such, the applicant would generally represent the intended
beneficiaries of the project. The project thereby institutes a process that would allow locally
representative entities to participate in decision-making about local investments and would
provide them with the responsibility to supervise implementation and then maintain and operate
the facilities. Individuals seeking financing for private or commnercial activities would not be
eligible to apply
4.7   Applications to SFKC may be sponsored by an entity other than the eligible applicant.
These "sponsors" would play the role of a facilitator, assisting applicants which lack the capacity
and resources to prepare or design the project, and assuming the responsibility for procuring the
works or equipment for project implementation. For example, a line ministry might sponsor an
application for a district hospital, or an NGO might sponsor an application for a communal water
project.
4.8   SFKC-financed projects would be implemented by an "implementing agency" (a
contractor in the case of civil works), which would be selected by the applicant or by the sponsor.
SFKC would be delegated the authority by the applicant or sponsor to disburse funds directly to
the "implementing agency", which would perform the works, provide the equipment or carry out
the services financed under the sub-project. In some cases, the applicant may also implement the
project, for example, in the case of an NGO applying for a training project which the NGO would
implement itself SFKC staff would appraise all sub-projects and directly supervise sub-project



I1
implementation. They would also promote, encourage and orient the demand for project
financing. Details of the project cycle are described in Chapter 5.
4.9    Line ministries would play a key role in the project. Their main function would be to
define sectoral policy guidelines and standards for infrastructure construction within which SFKC
would operate.
E.    Project Components
4.10    The project would consist of two components. Under the first component financing
would be provided for seed capital for SFKC to finance sub-projects primarily in the areas of
public infrastructure and services, as further described below. The second component would
consist of institutional support for SFKC's establishment and operations including (a) financing
of salaries, vehicles, equipment, and operating expenses; and (b) technical assistance and training
to improve SFKC's operational capacity and procedures.
4.11   First Component: Social Fund Seed Capital ($18.9 million). SFKC will provide grant
financing for small-scale projects, up to a maximum cost of $250,000 each. To be eligible for
financing, all projects would have to adhere to a set of eligibility principles. These include the
principle that all projects shall benefit the poor; projects should be labor intensive or otherwise
generate a significant social impact; SFKC will not finance recurrent costs; and all projects must be
consistent with national sectoral policies (see Annex C for complete list of eligibility principles).
4.12   If projects accord with the eligibility principles, their financing is subject to appraisal by
SFKC staff based on a set of eligibility and appraisal criteria developed for each sub-project type
and presented in the Operational Manual (see para. 5.12). The majority of sub-projects eligible
for financing are likely to fall within three main categories: social infrastructure, economic
infrastructure and social services.
4.13   Social infrast-ucture, which is defined as infrastructure related to social services, would
include the rehabilitation, construction and expansion of operating health and education facilities
(especially health clinics, primary and lower secondary schools, and training centers), social
welfare facilities (rehabilitation centers, orphanages) and communal sanitation systems.
4.14   Economic infrastructure, which would include the rehabilitation of communal water
supply systems, rural roads, and communal irrigation and drainage works.
4.15   Social services. Under this category, financing would be provided for selected fees,
equipment and materials for training programs in the areas of small enterprise development and
public health. To be eligible for SFKC financing, such programs must be directed to local
communities and run by reliable NGOs. Such sub-projects might include practical training in
small business management, agricultural skills for small farmers, information and education
training for public health and hygiene, skills training for the handicapped, orphans and widows,
and training in mine detection.



12
4.16 Equipment. For all of the above sub-projects, SFKC may finance an equipment
component through a separate contract. Equipment eligible for financing includes basic medical
equipment for health facilities, desks, chairs and blackboards for education facilities and materials
for training programs. Separate eligibility criteria for equipment are outlined in the Operational
Manual.
4.17  Under the project, financing may also be provided for NGO-managed credit schemes for
micro and small enterprise development. However, such financing will depend on further
investigations into the demand for microcredit and the institutional capacity of NGOs providing
credit.
4.18  During negotiations, agreement was reached that SFKC would only approve those sub-
projects for which there are eligibility and appraisal criteria satisfactory to IDA (para. 8.2 (b)).
Though SFKC may finance new sub-project types in response to demand, it was agreed that no
change to (i) the menu of eligible sub-project types; (ii) the eligibility criteria, and (iii) the
$250,000 maximum sub-project cost limit would be made without prior IDA approval (para. 8.2
(c)).
4.19 Second Component: Institutional Support for SFKC (US$2.3 million): This
component would include financing of:
(a) SFKC staff salaries, vehicles, office equipment and operating expenses ($1.8 million). As
stated in the Social Fund statutes (Article 16 (b)), overhead costs (administrative and operating
expenses) over the five year period shall not exceed 8 percent of the total amount of SFKC's
resources expended during the same period. This is well within the range of overhead expenses of
other social funds. To ensure institutional efficiency, overhead expenditures will be programmed
and monitored as one of SFKC's institutional performance indicators.
(b) technical assistance and training ($0.5 million). Technical assistance would be provided to
help improve SFKC's operational capacity and internal procedures, including assistance to set-up
the MIS system, improve criteria and methodologies for appraisal and supervision, carry out
physical and technical audits, and beneficiary assessments. Necessary local training would also be
financed, such as computer skills for local staff. Financing would also be provided for study trips
abroad so that SFKC senior staff could visit other social funds and learn from their
implementation experience (see Annex E for details of technical assistance).



13
CHAPTER V
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Social Fund Organizational Structure and Functions
5.1    The organizational structure of SFKC is based on the experience of other social funds and
takes into account the institutional context of Cambodia. As presented below SFKC would have
four operations departments: Finance and Administration, Promotions, Appraisal, and
Supervision. There would also be two Executive Support departments -- Operations and
Administration Advisory Unit and Internal Audit -- which would provide advice and information
to the General Director and Executive Committee. The functional responsibilities of these
departments are described in Annex F.
Figure 1: Organizational Structure of SFKC
President            Executive
Board of Directors
Executive
Committee
General Director
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .......... ... 
Executive
Operations
Advisory Unit            .              Internal Audit     Support Units
.                                             .   .. . ...   ... .   ........... ....... . ...... ...................................~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . .   .   . .   . . . . . .. .. .
Finance and .
. | Administration  |  Promotions            Appraisal           Supervision
Operations Departnents
5.2    Staffing. Given the proposed scale of operations, it is estimated that SFKC would need
about 40 staff (professional and support) at the height of its operations. In addition to its own
staff, SFKC may subcontract a number of supervision tasks and professional services. Depending
on the workload and need, small regional offices may be opened in order to decentralize and
improve the cost-effectiveness of supervision and outreach activities. During negotiations,



14
agreement was reached that SFKC's management level positions (i.e. department chief level and
above) will be staffed satisfactorily to IDA (para. 8.2 (d)).
5.3    SFKC's operating procedures, including criteria for project appraisal, contracting, and
supervision are presented in its Operational Manual (see Annex G for outline). The administrative
and financial procedures are contained in its Finance and Administrative Manual (Annex H).
During appraisal, SFKC's draft Operational and Administrative Manuals were reviewed in
substance and found satisfactory to IDA (para 8.1 (a)). Finalization of the Operational Manual,
including detailed eligibility and appraisal criteria for all sub-project types to be financed by IDA,
and the Administrative Manual, satisfactory to IDA, and their approval by SFKC's Board of
Directors is a condition of effectiveness (para. 8.3 (b)).
B.    Sub-project Cycle
Promotion, Application and Screening
5.4    The first step in the project cycle (Annex I) involves informing potential applicants and
sponsoring agencies of SFKC so as to ensure a solid pipeline of projects early on and ensure
effective coverage across regions of the country. The Promotions Department would be
responsible for this stage of the project cycle. Its promotional strategy, which will be finalized
prior to effectiveness, will include the following elements:
a) the preparation and wide dissemination of informational materials to line ministries, provincial
and district governments, communes, community groups and non-governmental organizations
and other relevant institutions about SFKC, including a brochure describing the eligibility
criteria and sub-projects menu, simple guidelines for the preparation of sub-project proposals,
and application forms tailored to each category of sub-project;
b) an initial, more targeted effort to inform key organizations with experience and capacity about
SFKC so as to stimulate high standard project applications that can be quickly financed to
stimulate a demonstration effect and build-up SFKC's credibility;
c) a series of regional workshops to further disseminate SFKC's purposes and procedures,
particularly in areas from which no or few project proposals are forthcoming. In the first year
of operation, the focus would be on facilitation -- helping communities to understand the
eligibility criteria, application procedures and to refine project proposals. In the second year,
SFKC would focus on reaching areas and groups that did not respond to the call for sub-
projects, particularly very poor regions that are underserved by public infrastructure and
services. Lack of response is most likely to be due to the security situation and/or the result
of weak capacity to prepare and implement projects. In the first instance, SFKC will have to
wait until the security situation improves to reach these areas. In the second instance, SFKC
would encourage potential sponsoring agencies to extend their activities to these areas, and
might provide assistance and training to local groups to help them prepare viable project
proposals.



15
5.5    Screening. The promotions staff would screen the sub-project applications to ensure that
they correspond with SFKC's eligibility principles and sub-project eligibility criteria, which have
been developed so as to be in line with sector policies and norms.
5.6   Lists of all eligible sub-projects would be submitted to the relevant line ministry for their
non-objection. In order to avoid bureaucratic delays, the ministries would be given five working
days to clear the projects. If no communication is received within this period, the project would
be deemed cleared for appraisal. During negotiations, agreement was reached between IDA and
the Government that no increase in this no-objection period could be made without prior IDA
approval (para. 8.2 (c)).
5.7    Demand-Management. SFKC is a demand-driven mechanism, financing projects for
which demand is forthcoming. However, the projects that are demanded may not be in accordance
with the objectives of SFKC. In order to orient demand such that it is consistent with the goals
of SFKC, the following operational instruments will be used: (a) eligibility principles; (b) project
menu; (c) eligibility criteria; (d) appraisal criteria; (e) poverty targeting; and (f) promotion and
outreach activities.
5.8    The eligibility principles (Annex C) lay out the broad policy framework governing SFKC's
activities. The menu of project types (Annex D) lists the different kinds of projects that can be
financed by SFKC. The menu of project types is supplemented by eligibility criteria that outline
the various activities that are eligible for SFKC financing under each project type. SFKC's
appraisal criteria further narrow down the activities and the form in which they will be acceptable
for SFKC financing. Only project proposals that are consistent with SFKC's eligibility principles,
project menu and eligibility criteria will be considered eligible for SFKC appraisal.
5.9   Poverty Targeting. SFKC may receive more eligible project proposals than it can
appraise or finance. In order to deal with this possibility, SFKC will use three simple poverty
targeting criteria to rank the order in which sub-projects are appraised (in addition to grouping
appraisals in the same region together for logistical efficiency):
Intended Beneficiaries: Project proposals, such as training facilities, whose intended beneficiaries
are poor and vulnerable groups such as female-headed households and the handicapped will
receive a rank of one. Ranks of two and three will be assigned to project proposals whose
intended beneficiaries are relatively less poor and vulnerable groups.
Type of Project: Project proposals with the highest social impact will receive a rank of one.
Ranks of two and three will be assigned to project proposals with a lower social impact.
Provincial Ceiling: SFKC will establish provincial limits on the portfolio share going to each
province based on the province's relative access to basic social services and its population. As
the SFKC starts disbursing, the provinces will be ranked based on the percentage of the allocated
portfolio share they have already received from SFKC; the province that has received the least
percentage of its allocation will be assigned a rank of one.



16
5.10  In ranking project proposals for appraisal, SFKC will regard the beneficiary rank as the
overriding rank. If two project proposals have the same beneficiary rank, the rank for the project
type willl determine which proposal is prioritized for appraisal. If two project proposals have the
same beneficiary rank and the same project type rank, the rank for the provincial ceiling will
determine the choice of the project proposal.
Appraisal
5.11   The appraisal division would appraise the projects in the field based on simple technical,
economic, institutional, social and environmental criteria appropfiate to each of the sub-project
categories, as specified in SFKC's Operational Manual.
a) The technical criteria for sub-project appraisal would be developed specifically for each sub-
project type based on the existing norms available from the respective line ministries to ensure
sectoral coherence and compatibility. Technical appraisal would confirm that the project
design and specifications complies with these norms. It would also ensure that infrastructure,
equipment and other inputs are consistent in scale, quality, cost and content with the proposed
activities of the sub-project and that implementation is technically feasible.
b) Economic analysis. A database of regional unit costs for project inputs would serve as the
basis for the economic analysis. SFKC would develop ranges for cost per beneficiary and cost
per unit for each sub-project type. Based on this information, indicators of cost effectiveness
would be calculated and used as appraisal criteria. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that SFKC would review and update their unit cost database at least every six months
and submit the updated information to IDA for ex-post review (para. 8.2 (e)).
c) Social analysis would be done to gather basic data on the number and breakdown of the
direct beneficiaries of the project and the demographic and social characteristics of the
catchment area. As well as providing a basis for appraisal, this would provide base data for
future studies of the social and economic impact of SFKC-financed projects. Information on
employment generation would also be collected during appraisal. Appraisers would also make
sure that the project is well-targeted based on SFKC's targeting policies.
d) Institutional analysis would be most important in social services project where the NGO
applicant is actually implementing the project. In such projects, an institutional analysis would
be carried out to appraise whether the applicant has the capacity to successfully implement the
proposed project. For all projects, the appraisal staff would also ensure that the applicant or
appropriate entity has the capacity to supervise the project and cover the operation and
maintenance costs after project completion. The appraisers would confirm the nature and
amount of the beneficiaries' counterpart contribution to the project, which must total a
minimum of 5 percent of the sub-project cost, and would gain assurances that operational and
maintenance costs of the sub-project will be covered. During appraisal, appraisal staff will
also be required to consult and coordinate with the provincial and district level governments
to ensure that there is no overlap with other planned or ongoing activities.



17
e) Environmental analysis would be undertaken on all projects according to routine
environmental appraisal criteria, although given the nature and small-size of sub-projects no
significant environmental impacts are anticipated. For any projects that are likely to have an
adverse environmental impact above a specified threshold, SFKC would ensure measures were
taken to mitigate any risks in the project design. SFKC may also reject any sub-project
applications which it considers involve excessive environmental risk. The Bank would provide
technical assistance to help SFKC develop environmental assessment (EA) guidelines and train
appraisal staff in EA procedures.
Approval Procedures and Bank Review
5.12  Once appraised, the project dossiers would be passed to the Executive Committee, which
would meet at least once every two weeks, and would have formal responsibility for approval or
rejection of sub-project proposals, or request that they be revised and resubmitted. If approved,
sub-projects proposals would be submitted for clearance by IDA. Taking into consideration the
nature, size and large number of expected sub-projects and the demands on Bank supervision, the
following procedures would apply to all sub-projects financed by IDA: for civil works contracts
over $100,000 and equipment contracts over US$50,000, approval would be required prior to
contract signing and full documentation would have to be submitted; for projects under these
limits, IDA would carry out an ex post review of a random selection of sub-projects, based on
summary project data sheets, acceptable to IDA. During negotiations, agreements to these sub-
project review arrangements were reached with the Government (para 8.2 (f))
Contracting, Implementation and Supervision
5.13  Upon approval of a sub-project, the applicant or sponsoring agency (if applicable) would
select the implementing agency in accordance with Bank procurement procedures as directed by
SFKC. The nature of the implementing agency will vary depending on the type of project. In the
case of construction projects, a local private sector contractor will normally be hired to carry out
the work. For other projects, such as support for training programs, the implementing agency
might be, for example, an NGO. During negotiations, it was agreed that a sub-project contract
(or "sub-grant agreement"), satisfactory to IDA, will be signed by SFKC, the applicant,
sponsoring agency (if applicable) and the implementing agency for each sub-project (para. 8.2
(g)). This standard sub-grant agreement will be finalized prior to credit effectiveness and included
in the Operational Manual.
5.14  Disbursements would be made to the implementing agency based on work completed and
confirmed during site supervision visits by SFKC supervision staff. The most likely disbursement
method would be through the local branch office of a commercial bank, although, final decisions
as to the exact method of payment would be made prior to effectiveness based on the trial period
implementation experience (see para. 6.5).
5.15  To increase controls on sub-project execution, contingencies would not be included in
sub-project budgets. Changes in standard sub-project costs, which are not expected to be



18
frequent given the accuracy and regular updating of the unit cost database and the short time
frame of sub-project execution, would be handled through separate requests for a budget change.
5.16  Supervision of sub-project implementation would occur at three levels. First, SFKC
would contract external on-site technical supervisors, the cost of which would be included in the
sub-project cost and is estimated not to exceed five percent. Terms of reference and standard
contracts for external supervision would be included in the Operational Manual. Second, the
applicant, as representative of the direct beneficiaries, would also supervise and monitor the
progress and quality of construction. Both the external supervisor and the applicant would verify
completion of the works before requesting disbursement. Third, SFKC staff from the Supervision
Department would monitor sub-project implementation directly. Supervision would involve
monthly visits (or sooner, on demand from the external supervisor or applicant) to sub-project
sites to validate that works are advancing and to authorize requested disbursements. In addition,
as a further level of quality control, local consultants would be contracted to carry out physical
audits on a random sample of sub-projects to evaluate their technical quality, their operational and
maintenance cost coverage, and provide feedback to SFKC on the adequacy of the appraisal and
supervision system (see para. 6.20).
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation
5.17 Management Information System. SFKC would establish a computerized management
information system (MIS) as a tool to monitor the sub-project cycle and the overall performance
of SFKC. It would also facilitate the production of reports on SFKC's performance. The MIS,
which is being developed with technical inputs and assistance from other social funds, will permit
SFKC to track its project pipeline, resource flows and their relation to its targeting policies and
criteria.
5.18  The MIS would provide a wide range of information on the operational activities of the
SFKC and would also complement the financial and accounting database system. As a condition
of effectiveness the Management Information System shall have been established by SFKC,
satisfactory to IDA, and shall be fully operational (para. 8.3 (c)).
5.19  Portfolio Performance Indicators. A major function of the MIS will be to produce
reports on indicators established to monitor the performance of SFKC in relation to its overall
objectives. Monitorable indicators of SFKC's capacity, efficiency, and attainment of policy
objectives were agreed at appraisal (Annex J). These indicators include measures of the SFKC's
overall disbursements, the amount and number of sub-projects approved, appraised and
implemented, the number of direct beneficiaries, the number of man-months of employment
created and overhead costs per total amount disbursed. Agreement between the Government and
IDA on the use of portfolio performance indicators were reached during negotiations (para. 8.2
(h)). Annual performance targets will be reviewed and revised annually as part of SFKC's annual
portfolio review exercise.
5.20  External Impact Evaluations. In order to evaluate the social and economic impact of
SFKC-financed projects, SFKC will contract local and/or international consultants to carry out



19
evaluations of sub-projects on a sample basis. A beneficiary assessment methodology will be used
to gain the feedback of SFKC's clients -- sub-project beneficiaries, applicants, sponsoring
agencies and implementing agencies -- on how SFKC is responding to their needs and to gather
data on the impact of the sub-projects. Other surveys and impact evaluations may also be carried
out on specific sub-project types. Information from these assessments will be used by SFKC
management to make adjustments to their policies and procedures so as to improve fulfillmenit of
their objectives and responsiveness to client concerns.
D.   Reporting and Supervision
5.21  The following reporting requirements would apply to the project:
(i) each month SFKC would submit to IDA standard monthly progress reports according to an
agreed upon format, and based on information from the MIS system;
(ii) an annual portfolio review exercise would be undertaken by SFKC in collaboration with
IDA. This would include an assessment of performance indicators, sub-projects by type and
location, cash-flow projections, recurrent and maintenance cost coverage, and operational
procedures, including environmental assessment procedures. After each review, an annual budget
and work program, including proposals as to how to improve procedures so as to fulfill SFKC's
targeting policies and criteria, reviewed and found satisfactory by IDA, would be prepared and
would subsequently be carried out by SFKC;
(iii) based on this review exercise, SFKC would prepare an annual report to be ratified by its
Board of Directors and submitted to IDA, no later than three months after the first year of
operations and annually therea%.-r. Annual reports would contain key performance indicators of
SFKC together with reporting on technical assistance and training efforts, and the results of any
monitoring and impact evaluation studies; and
(iv) a final report and evaluation of the outcome of the proposed project would be prepared by
SFKC no later than six months after the closing date.
5.22  Mid-term Review. The Bank and SFKC would carry out a joint mid-term review to
evaluate the performance of SFKC. This exercise would be scheduled to occur promptly after
more than 50% of the credit has been disbursed, or otherwise no later than December 31, 1997.
The mid-term review is designed to provide an opportunity to evaluate the experience of SFKC,
both at an operational level as well as in the context of the Government's overall social policy and
related programs. At the end of the review, a mid-term review report would be submitted to IDA
highlighting any major problems, issues and bottlenecks identified during the review process and
the proposals for resolving them and fulfilling the goals of the project. The Government's
agreement to these review and reporting requirements was obtained during negotiations (paras.
8.2 (i) and (i)).
5.23  Bank Supervision. Due to the demand-driven nature of SFKC, the large number of sub-
projects to be reviewed, the newness of the institution and the importance of discouraging



20
financial misallocations, intensive supervision is required by IDA. This is in keeping with the
experience of other social funds. Joint supervision missions would be carried out with any other
donor agencies. An estimated 2-3 supervision missions, totaling 20-30 staff weeks, would be
required annually. To reduce the costs of supervision, consultants would be hired to review
selected aspects of SFKC's operations and to carry out physical audits of the civil works. A
supervision plan is available in the project file.
F.    Environmental Impact
5.24  The proposed project has been assigned a "B" environmental classification. Environmental
impact assessments will be carried out as part of the appraisal process, and technical assistance
will be provided to SFKC to develop environmental assessment policies and procedures. If
adverse impacts are foreseen, necessary mitigating measures, if not already planned, would be
incorporated into the sub-project design at appraisal. SFKC may also reject sub-project proposals
on the grounds that they involve excessive environmental risk. The adequacy of SFKC's
environmental procedures would be assessed by IDA as part of the annual review.



21
CHAPTER VI
PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A.   Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
6.1   Project Costs. The total project cost, expressed in January 1995 prices, is estimated at
US$ 22.2 million, net of taxes and duties. The foreign exchange costs amount to US$6.3 million
representing approximately 28 percent of the total project cost. A summary of project costs by
component is shown in Table 6.1 with a detailed cost table provided in Annex K.
Table 6.1: Summary Cost Table
Local     Foreign    Total
Institutional Support
Salaries and Fees                                   1.11       0.00       1.11
Vehicles and Equipment                              0.02       0.22      0.24
Operating Expenses                                  0.37       0.08      0.45
Technical Assistance and Training                   0.35       0.15      0.50
Sub-total Institutional Support             1.85      0.45       2.30
SFKC Sub-projects
Social Infrastructure                               6.95       3.20      10.15
Economic Infrastructure                             2.72       1.43      4.15
Equipment                                           2.83       0.67      3.50
Social Services                                     0.88       0.22       1.10
Sub-total Sub-Projects                     13.38      5.52      18.90
Base Cost                                  15.23      5.97      21.20
Unallocated                                           0.70       0.30       1.00
Total Project Cost                         15.93      6.27      22.20
6.2   A total of US$18.9 mnillion, or 85 percent, of the total project cost is allocated to finance
sub-projects. Based on estimated demand, indicative figures are provided for the breakdown
among sub-project categories. However, given the fact that SFKC is a financial intermediary and
is demand-driven by nature, the actual breakdown will depend on demand and operational
experience.



22
6.3   No contingencies have been included for sub-projects as any increase in individual sub-
project costs would be administered through change orders (see para. 5.16) and absorbed by the
sub-project budget, resulting in an overall reduction in the number of sub-projects executed.
Institutional support to SFKC (excluding technical assistance and training) accounts for US$ 1.8
million or 8 percent of total project cost. This is in line with the requirements of SFKC's Statutes.
Costs of training and technical assistance for SFKC are estimated at $0.5 million for the project.
Annex E lists the expected technical assistance requirements during the project.
6.4   Financing Plan. The proposed credit of US$20 million would finance about 90 percent
of total project costs over the five year period. The financing plan is shown in Table 6.2. The
Government will contribute the equivalent of US$1.2 million in budgetary and in-kind support. In
addition, to enhance sub-project sustainability and local ownership, applicants and/or sponsoring
agencies will be required to contribute a minimum of 5 percent of the sub-project cost in the form
of project preparation and supervision services, materials, specialized construction equipment and
other contributions defined in the eligibility criteria according to sub-project type. These
contributions may be mobilized from the direct beneficiaries of the sub-project. However, SFKC
will not require labor contributions from beneficiaries, as one of the main objectives of the project
is to increase incomes through employment generation. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances on the provision of the specified amount of government counterpart
financing each year, and agreed that applicants/sponsors would be obligated by SFKC to
contribute a minimum of 5 percent of the sub-project cost as counterpart contribution (para. 8.2
(k)).
Table 6.2: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local        Foreign      Total
Government                                            1.20       0.00       1.20
Applicant/sponsor                                     1.00       0.00       1.00
IDA                                                  13.73       6.27      20.00
Total                                       15.93       6.27      22.20
6.5   Project preparation activities have been expedited by resources, including a PHRD grant
of $504,000, approved in December 1994. This grant money has been used to finance technical
assistance to assist the Project Preparation Unit develop SFKC operational and administrative
procedures and to finance operating expenses. Out of the proposed credit, up to a maximum of
US$1 million equivalent (or 5% of the total credit) will be available for retroactive financing to
allow SFKC to finance trial sub-projects prior to effectiveness. This trial implementation period
would allow SFKC to test and improve its operational and administrative procedures based on
practical experience and lessons learned in the process.



23
6.6   Corinancing. Consistent with the experience of other social funds, it is expected that
SFKC, if successful, will be able to attract additional financing to expand its activities during the
course of the project. Opportunities to obtain financing for the project are already being
explored; preliminary discussions have been held with USAID and the Government of Japan and
further discussions are planned.
B.    Procurement
6.7   All procurement of civil works, goods and services financed by IDA will be carried out in
accordance with Bank guidelines (see Annex L for a summary matrix of procurement and
disbursement methods).
6.8   Civil works. No international competitive bidding is expected under the proposed project
given the small size of sub-project contracts -- the maximum sub-project cost is $250,000, with
the average sub-project cost estimated to be around $25,000. Local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures, acceptable to IDA, would apply to civil works contracts valued between $100,000
and $250,000. Approximately US$4 million of civil works contracts are expected to be awarded
through LCB. Civil works contracts valued between $50,000 and $100,000 would be awarded
through local shopping procedures, with an expected aggregate amount to be financed by IDA of
US$3.015 million. A unit cost data base maintained by SFKC will be used to check the
competitiveness of quotes under local shopping procedures. For sub-projects below US$50,000 a
system of direct contracting would apply, with strict application of unit costs supplied by SFKC.
Direct contracting is justified given the preponderance of small-scale, labor-intensive works in
scattered and remote areas and would also encourage contractors to expand their operations to
these areas. Direct contracting would be allowed up to an aggregate amount to be financed by
IDA of US$5 .515 million. Packaging groups of sub-projects for procurement purposes is unlikely
to be possible except under circumstances in which a sponsoring agency has applied for a package
of investments.
6.9    Applicants or sponsoring agencies, if the latter participates in the application, would be
responsible for procurement. In the case of local competitive bidding, SFKC would provide the
applicant/sponsoring agency with a package of basic documents, including a description of the
procedures to be followed. During negotiations, agreement was reached that standard bidding
documents and LCB procurement procedures acceptable to IDA will be used for procurement
under the project (para. 8.2 (1)).



24
Table 6.3     Procurement Arrangementsl/
(US$ million)
LCB        Local      Direct    Other2/      Total
Shopping   Contracts
SFKC Institutional Support
Salaries and Fees                                                         1.11       1.11
(I. 11)    (1. 11)
Vehicles and Equipment                  0.13       0.11                              0.24
(0.13)     (0.11)                            (0.24)
Operating Costs                                                           0.45       0.45
(0.36)     (0.36)
TechnicalAssistance and Training                                          0.50       0.50
(0.50)     (0.50)
Sub-total Institutional Support         0.13       0.11                   2.06         2.3
(0.13)     (0.11)                 (1.97)     (2.21)
Sub-Projects
Infrastructure Sub-projects             4.00       3.35       6.35        0.60      14.30
(3.60)     (3.01)     (5.52)     (0.52)    (12.65)
Services Sub-projects                                                     1.10       1.10
(0.99)     (0.99)
Equipment Sub-projects                             3.50                              3.50
(3.15)                           (3.15)
Sub-total Sub-projects                  4.00       6.85        6.35       1.70       18.90
(3.60)     (6.16)     (5.52)     (1.51)    (16.79)
Unallocated                                                                           1.00
(1.00)
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      4.13       6.96       6.35        3.76      22.20
(3.73)     (6.27)     (5.52)     (3.48)    (20.00)
1/ Figures in parentheses are the estimated amounts to be financed by IDA.
2/ Under the "Other" category, SFKC Institutional Support includes consulting services procured following Bank
guidelines for the Use of Consultants, and salaries, fees and other operating costs (travel, utilities, and minor office
supplies), for which procurement procedures would not be applicable. Services sub-projects ($1.1 million) and
small NGO-run community implemented social infrastructure projects ($0.6 million), such as latrines, would not
be governed by Bank procurement guidelines. The unallocated amount ($1 million) is also included under the
"other" category until it is allocated.
6.10   The main control on direct contracting would be SFKC's strict adherence to the costs
provided in their regional cost database which will be updated regularly. All cost estimates for
sub-projects will have to fall within the cost limits determined by the data base. This has proved
an effective tool for controlling sub-project costing and procurement in other social funds. SFKC
would need to demonstrate that the costs of the sub-projects are competitive with other similar
projects, particularly those financed under World Bank-financed operations. As an additional
safeguard, SFKC would keep a data base on the number, amount and location of sub-projects
implemented by individual contractors and would limit the total value of contracts that can be
awarded through direct contracting to any one contractor to US$300,000. These direct
contracting guidelines would be agreed upon and included in the Operational Manual. During



25
negotiations agreement was reached between IDA and the Government that no change can be
made to the US$300,000 ceiling amount awarded to any one contractor through direct
contracting procedures within the life of the project without prior IDA approval (para. 8.2 (c)).
6.11  Equipment and Goods. Goods and equipment to be procured under the project's
institutional support component include vehicles, computers and office equipment. Under the
sub-project component, they include tools, furniture and basic equipment for health clinics,
schools and other facilities. Packages of goods and equipment above $100,000, where
international competitive bidding procedures would apply, are not anticipated. For goods and
equipment costing between $50,000 and $100,000, LCB procedures acceptable to IDA would
apply. An anticipated US$125,000 of equipment (including vehicles) under the institutional
support component is expected to be purchased under LCB. Procurement would be carried out
by the applicant/sponsoring agency in accordance with the guidelines provided by SFKC. For
procurement of goods and equipment below $50,000, local shopping procedures would apply,
with an aggregate amount of US$113,200 for the institutional support component and US$3.5
million for sub-projects.
6.12  Consultant Services and Training. About US$500,000 would be allocated to
consultant services and training under the project. The selection and appointment of consultants
would be done in accordance with the 1981 World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants,
including the contracting of SFKC higher level professional and technical personnel.
6.13  Categories not Applicable to Procurement Arrangements. Standard procurement
arrangements would not apply to SFKC operating expenses (salaries, utilities, travel and minor
office supplies). NGO-implemented social services projects and some small NGO-managed social
projects, such as latrine construction, implemented by local communities would also not be
governed by standard procurement procedures.
6.14  Bank Review. Bank review procedures for sub-projects are provided in para. 5.13. In
addition, to ensure compliance with agreed procurement arrangements, IDA would require prior
review of all LCB contracts. Prior Bank review would also be required for all contracts for the
employment of consultant firms above $100,000 and for the employment of individual consultants
above $50,000. For all consultant services (firms and individuals) and training contracts, IDA
would review terms of reference. For SFKC professional staff, prior review would only be
required for management positions.



26
C.    Disbursements
6.15  The proposed World Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of about four years. A
disbursement profile is presented in Annex M. This profile is based on anticipated demand and
appraised institutional capacity.
Table 6.4: Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
FY96        FY97         FY98         FY99
Annual            1.5          4.5         10.5         3.5
Cumulative          1.5          6.0        16.5           20
6.16  Disbursements would be made against the following categories of expenditures: (a) sub-
project grants: 100 percent of sub-grant amounts disbursed by SFKC as approved according to
SFKC's eligibility and appraisal criteria; (b) operating costs including (i) salaries: 100 percent of
eligible expenditures (net of taxes), and (ii) operating expenses: 80 percent of eligible
expenditures; (c) equipment (including vehicles). 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100
percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90 percent of local expenditures for other
items procured locally; and (d) technical assistance and training: 100 percent of expenditures
(net of taxes).
6.17 Documentation of Expenditure. For civil works under US$100,000, equipment under
US$50,000, special NGO-managed social services projects, Social Fund administrative
expenditures and technical assistance contracts, withdrawal applications will be supported by
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). For civil works over US$100,000 and equipment over
US$50,000, withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation. A Special
Account would be opened at the National Bank of Cambodia with an initial authorized amount of
US$1 million equivalent, which would subsequently be adjusted based on expected disbursement
flows up to the authorized allocation of US$2 million equivalent. The Government agreed to the
above disbursement arrangements during negotiations (para. 8.2 (m)). In accordance with the
provision for retroactive financing (see para. 6.5), withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$1 million equivalent, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
under the sub-grants category after March 1, 1995 and prior to credit effectiveness.
D.   Accounts and Auditing
6.18  SFKC's Finance and Administrative Department will be responsible for the overall
financial management of SFKC. It will develop and implement an adequate computer-based MIS
and accounting system that will enable SFKC to provide quick and accountable financial
information on sub-projects and administrative expenditures. SFKC will also hire an Internal
Auditor who will be responsible for conducting specific operational and administrative audits.
These audits reports will be used as management tools to identify and take corrective actions if
necessary to ensure the correct uses of funds.



27
6.19  External financial audits will be performed on an annual basis through the contracting of
an internationally recognized independent accounting firm acceptable to IDA. The external
auditing firm will be responsible for auditing all project accounts, the special account (dollars),
and all disbursement requests made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). SFKC submitted
draft terms of reference for the external audit prior to negotiations (para. 8.1 (b)). During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that audits will be conducted by an independent private
extemal auditor acceptable to IDA and will follow terms of reference in accordance with
appropriate auditing standards, as approved by IDA; and that SFKC will send a copy of the
external audit report to IDA within four months after the close of each fiscal year (para. 8.2 (n)).
The report will certify that SFKC is using SFKC's resources for the purposes for which they were
provided and that disbursements and procurement for all contracts are being carried out in
accordance with the agreed guidelines and IDA's procurement regulations.
6.20  External technical audits will also be carried out by local consultants to assess the
technical quality of SFKC-financed projects. Information from this survey will provide feedback
to SFKC, in particular the Supervision Department, on the quality of the works carried out and
recommendations as to how to improve quality. The technical evaluation will also provide an
opportunity to assess whether the operational and maintenance costs of SFKC-financed projects
are being covered. The SFKC would adjust its targeting and eligibility priorities in accordance
with the audit's findings.



28
CHAPTER VII
BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits
7.1    The major benefits of the project are (i) reconstruction and rehabilitation of public
infrastructure and services with the associated health, educational and economic benefits for the
poor; (ii) creation of short-term employment opportunities; (iii) the development of the local
construction industry; (iv) increased participation of communities in local decision-making and
management of small-scale development projects; and (v) increased line ministry experience and
capacity to develop investment criteria for local infrastructure investment. The project would also
assist donor coordination by providing a mechanism through which donors may wish to channel
their resources to quality sub-projects.
B.    Risks
7.2    The risks associated with this project are (i) political interference in the Fund's operations;
(ii) misallocation of financial resources; (iii) shortage of qualified staff; and (iv) lack of
sustainability, particularly the risk that maintenance and recurrent costs will not be covered. An
added risk in Cambodia is continued insecurity which could make travel within parts of the
country difficult.
7.3   Preparation of the project has incorporated the lessons from other social funds so as to
minimize these risks. In particular, the risks of political interference and financial misallocation
will be mitigated by incorporating procedures that ensure autonomy and transparency of the
SFKC's operations, including rigorous eligibility and appraisal criteria, provisions for prior Bank
approval, adherence to strict unit cost ceilings for sub-projects, and internal and external auditing.
7.4    Lack of qualified staff is being addressed by setting competitive salaries and advertising
positions widely. Qualified applicants have come forward, and SFKC is currently well staffed.
The problem of sustainability is being addressed by encouraging community involvement and
commitment throughout the project cycle, requiring a minimum beneficiary contribution,
obtaining written assurances of the coverage of recurrent/maintenance costs from the appropriate
entities during sub-project appraisal, and through external audit procedures. Under present
conditions, the security risk is not considered a major constraint to the implementation of the
project as large areas of the country remain secure. Given the flexibility of SFKC procedures, the
SFKC will be able to direct its operations to secure areas. It is anticipated that applications from
secure areas should provide sufficient demand to fully utilize its resources.



29
CHAPTER VIII
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1    During appraisal, SFKC submitted:
a) drafts of the Operational and Administrative Manuals (para. 5.3); and
b) draft terms of reference for external audits (para. 6.19).
8.2   During negotiations, agreement was reached between IDA and the Government that:
a) the Government will make the proceeds of the Credit available to SFKC on a non-
reimbursable basis pursuant to a Fund Agreement satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.3);
b) SFKC will approve only those sub-projects for which there are eligibility criteria in the
Operational Manual satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.18);
c) no change to (i) the menu of eligible sub-project types; (ii) the eligibility criteria; (iii)
the $250,000 maximum sub-project cost limit; (iv) the 5 working day no objection
period within which line ministries have the opportunity to clear sub-projects; and (v)
the $300,000 ceiling amount which can be awarded to any one contractor through
direct contracting during the life of the project, would be made without prior IDA
approval (paras. 4.18, 5.6, 6.10);
d) Social Fund management level positions (i.e. department chief level and above) will be
staffed satisfactorily to IDA (para 5.2);
e) SFKC will review and update the sub-project unit cost database at least every six
months and submit the updated information to IDA for ex-post review (para. 5. 11(b));
f) IDA review arrangements of sub-projects will be carried out as specified, including
submission of appropriate documentation (para. 5.12 and Annex M);
g) a sub-project contract (or "sub-grant agreement"), satisfactory to IDA, will be signed
by SFKC, the applicant, sponsoring agency (if applicable) and the implementing
agency for each sub-project (para. 5.13);
h) selected SFKC portfolio performance indicators will be used to monitor SFKC's
performance (para 5.19);
i) SFKC will fulfill the following reporting requirements: (i) submission of a monthly
progress report from the MIS system; (ii) submission of SFKC's annual report,
approved by SFKC's Board of Directors, no later than three months after the first year
of operations and annually thereafter; and (iii) submission of a final report and



30
evaluation of the outcome of the proposed project no later than six months after the
closing date (para. 5.21);
j) project implementation will include annual joint portfolio reviews and a joint mid-term
review to be conducted promptly after more than 50% of the credit has been
disbursed, or otherwise no later than December 31, 1997 (para. 5.21 and 5.22);
k) the Government will provide the specified amount of counterpart funds, and sub-
project applicants/sponsors will be obligated by SFKC to contribute the 5 percent
minimum counterpart contribution (para. 6.4);
1) standard bidding documents and LCB procurement procedures acceptable to IDA will
be used for procurement under the project (para. 6.9);
m) the Government will carry out specified disbursement arrangements, including the
establishment of a Special Account with an initial authorized amount of US$1 million
equivalent (para. 6.17); and
n) annual audits will be conducted by an independent private auditor acceptable to IDA
and will follow terms of reference in accordance with appropriate auditing principles,
as approved by IDA, and such audits will be submitted to IDA within four months of
the close of each fiscal year (para. 6.19).
8.3    During negotiations, agreement was reached that the following will be conditions of credit
effectiveness:
a) the Fund Agreement shall have been signed and entered into effect between the
Government and SFKC (para. 4.3);
b) finalization of the Operational and Administrative Manuals, satisfactory to IDA, and
their adoption by SFKC's Board of Directors (para. 5.3); and
c) the Management Information System shall have been established by SFKC,
satisfactory to IDA, and shall be fully operational (para. 5.18).
Recommendation.  Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Development Credit of SDR 13.4 million (US$20 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to the Kingdom of Cambodia.



31
ANNEX A
Page 1 of 7
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
ROYAL DECREE
Unofficial Translation
RD/1 294/20
-CONSIDERING the constitution of the Kingdom of Cambodia,
-CONSIDERING the Royal Decree of Samdech Preah Norodom Sihanouk Varman
King of the Kingdom of Cambodia, dated November 1,1993 on the appointment of
the Royal Government of Cambodia.
-CONSIDERING the Royal law, dated July 20, 1994 on the organization and
management of Cabinet of Minister.
-REFERRING to the request of the first Prime Minister and second Prime
Minister, dated December 28, 1994.
Therefore, it is Decided
Article 1: Is hereby established the Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia designated with the
acronym " S.F.K.C." in the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Article 2: The " S.F.K.C." is established as a separate autonomous public institution with independent
social legal status and possessing full juridical standing as well as administrative, managerial,
technical and financial autonomy under the laws of the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Article 3: The organization and management of the " S F K C "is defined by the Statutes set forth in the
Annex attached hereto.
Article 4: The Prime Minister shall undertake responsibility for implementing this Royal Decree.
Article 5: This Royal Decree shall become effective and in force from the day of signing hereon.
Phnom Penh, December, 29, 1994
on behalf of the King
Acting Chief of State
Signature
Signed
CHEA SIM



32
ANNEX A
Page 2 of 7
Submitted to:                 Submitted to the King for His
The First Prime Minister and   Signature.
Second Prime Minister         First Prime       Second Prime
Co-Minister of Cabinet of      Minister         Minister
Minister
Signature           Signature            Signature            Signature
Signed              Signed               Signed               Signed
SOK AN              VENG SEREYVOUTH NORODOM RANARITH   HUN SEN
No: 10
Copied for Distribution
Phnom Penh, December 29, 1994
Deputy General Secretary of the Royal Government.
Signature
Signed
SIN SEREI



33
ANNEX A
Page 3 of 7
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
STATUTES
The Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia
CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1: The Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia, designated with the acronym "S.F.K.C." is
hereby established as a separate autonomous public institution with social legal status and
possessing full juridical standing as well as administrative, managerial, technical and financial
autonomy under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister.
Article 2: The "S.F.K.C." shall be subject to the laws and regulations of the Kingdom of Cambodia and
such other provisions as shall be applicable under said laws.
CHAPTER II
OBJECTIVES
Article 3: The "S.F.K.C." shall use its obtained resources to finance on a grant basis the implementation
of projects consistent with its objective. The "S.F.K.C." is empowered to enter into agreements
with bilateral and international financial organizations, other Agencies, and entities and with the
implementing Agencies for the purposes of financing and implementing such projects. The
main objectives of the "S.F.K.C" shall be to
(a) respond to the urgent needs of the poor communities within the Kingdom and alleviate their
poverty,
(b) increase the employment opportunities for the Cambodian people, and
(c) promote social welfare through the implementation of small scale projects for the rehabilitation
of social and economic infrastructure, for supporting socially productive activities, and for
supporting micro-credit schemes managed by reliable organizations. In order to assist the
"S.F.K.C." in realizing these objectives, the "S.F.K.C." shall be governed by its own policies,
procedures and regulations for procurement, contracting, disbursement, and personnel
management. It shall engage the necessary technical assistance in respect of the agreements in
to which it enters with bilateral and international financial organizations, in accordance with
the provisions of those agreements.



34
ANNEX A
Page 4 of 7
CHAPTER III
OFFICE AND DURATION OF MANDATE
Article 4: The head office of the "S.F.K.C" is located in Phnom Penh, the capital city of the Kingdom of
Cambodia, and the "S.F.K.C" may establish its own branch offices in the cities of the Kingdom
of Cambodia.
Article 5: The mandate of the "S.F.K.C" will last for five (5) years from the date the Royal Decree
establishing the "S.F.K.C" is promulgated and is signed by the King of the Kingdom of
Cambodia. The mandate of the "S.F.K.C" may be renewed by Royal Decree.
CHAPTER IV
ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
Article 6: The structure of the "S.F.K.C" shall be organized as follows:
(a) The President of the "S.F.K.C"
(b) The Board of Directors of the "S.F.K.C"
(c) The Executive Committee of the "S.F.K.C"
(d) The General Director of the "S.F.K.C" and
(e) The Operational Units of the "S.F.K.C"
Article 7: The President of the "S.F.K.C". The Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia shall be
appointed by the Chief of State to act as President of the "S.F.K.C" with the following powers:
(a) Propose the appointment of the members of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of
the same Board, and the General Director.
(b) Approve the appointment of a duly qualified independent and intemationally
recognized firm to carry out the extemal audits of the "S.F.K.C."
(c) Ensure that the objectives of the fund are at all times implemented effectively by the
Board of Directors.
(d) Propose the scope of the annual operational reports on the operations of the "S.F.K.C"
to be submitted by the Board to the President.
Article 8:    The Board of Directors of the "S.F.K.C."
The Board of Directors of the "S.F.K.C" shall consist of eleven (11) highly recognized
personality members namely as follows:
(a) Two (2) highly recognized personalities of economy, including a representative from
the Ministry of Economy and Finance as voting members.
(b) Two (2) highly recognized personalities of law as voting members.
(c) Two (2) highly recognized personalities of social affairs as voting members.
(d) The General Director of the "S.F.K.C" as a non- voting member.
(e) Two (2) qualified representatives from non-govemmental organizations as voting
members.
(f) Two (2) qualified representatives of the private sector as voting members.



35
ANNEX A
Page 5 of 7
Article 9: The mandate of the members of the Board of Directors of the "S.F.K.C" shall last for five (5)
years.
Article 10: The members of the Board of Directors shall convene every six (6) months, or more often as
the Chairman deems appropriate. A quorum shall be defined as at least six (6)of the total
Board members present. In the case of equality of vote, the vote of the Chairman of the Board
shall act as the deciding vote. The Board shall have the following powers:
(a) Establish and approve the "S.F.K.C" operating policies and procedures.
(b) Approve the annual budget of the S.F.K.C. and its financial regulations.
(c) Approve and ratify the agreements entered into between the "S.F.K.C" and bilateral and
international financial Organizations and other Agencies and Entities for the provision of
financial resources to the "S.F.K.C" as shall be in conformity with the laws and regulations of
the Kingdom of Cambodia and such other provisions as shall be applicable under said laws.
(d) Approve the administrative (by-law) and the finance/administration and operational manuals
of the "S.F.K.C".
(e) Propose the scope and content of reports to be submitted by the Executive Committee.
Article 11:    The Executive Committee of the "S.F.K.C."
The Executive Committee shall represent the Board of Directors in carrying out the Board's policies and for
project financing subject to the finance/administration and operational manuals of the "S.F.K.C". The
Chairman of the Board of Directors shall appoint to the Executive Committee six (6) members from the
Board.
(a) The General Director as the Chairman of the Executive Committee.
(b) The representative of the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
(c) One of the Board members representing law.
(d) One of the Board members representing social affairs.
(e) One of the Board members representing non-governmental Organizations.
(f) One of the Board members representing the private sector.
Article 12: The Executive Committee shall meet every two (2) weeks or more frequently as the Chairman
of the Executive Committee may determine. A quorum shall consist of three (3) members,
including the General Director.



36
ANNEX A
Page 6 of 7
rticle 13: The General Director of the "S.F.K.C"
lhe General Director of the "S.F.K.C" shall be a highly recognized personality. The General Director shall
have the following powers.
(a) Direct and administer the day-to-day operations of the "S.F.K.C" at all times in accordance
with the policies, directives and the finance/administration and operational manuals approved
by the Board of Directors.
(b) Represent the "S.F.K.C" in the negotiations of agreements and contracts with international and
bilateral financial organizations and such other Agencies and Entities, all in accordance with
the policies and procedures of the "S.F.K.C" as approved by the Board of Directors.
(c) Appoint the staff ofthe operational Units through a competitive and transparent selection
process in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors.
(d) Manage the operational Units and its staff in their duties for carrying out the operations of the
"S.F.K.C"
(e) Submit to the Executive Committee proposed projects for its consideration and approval.
(f) Assume any other responsibility that the Board may fornally delegate to him from time to
time.
(g) Should the General Director expect to be absent from a meeting of the Executive Committee,
the General Director shall designate an acting Chairman from among the members of the
Executive Committee.
MAicle 1     The operational Units of the "S.F.K.C"
The "S.F.K.C" shall conduct its relations with its employees on the basis of the personnel and salary
administration regime to be issued by its Board of Directors. The personnel of the "S.F.K.C" shall not be
govemed by the State Regulations for Civil Service salaries and terms of employment.
CHAPTER V
FINANCE, BUDGET AND BANKING PROCEDURES
Arficle   The "S.F.K.C" is authorized to receive financial support including credits, grants, budgetary
allocations or any other type of financial assistance from international or bilateral
organizations, National Institutions, and such other domestic and foreign entities as may be
permitted by the laws and regulations of the kingdom of Cambodia in order to fulfill its
objectives.



37
ANNEX A
Page 7 of 7
Article 16: All financial support to the "S.F.K.C" shall be subject to the following requirements:
The Royal Government will ensure the prompt availability of adequate start-up funds for the "S.F.K.C".
(a) The total administrative budget of the "S.F.K.C" over its five years life shall not exceed eight
percent (8%) of the total arnount of its resources expended during that same period.
(b) Individual projects financed by the "S.F.K.C" shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars (USS250 000) each.
(c) The "S.F.K.C" shall submit to the Royal Government its annual request for budgetary
allocation under the Government's national budget in accordance with the provisions of the
organic Budget Law of 28 December, 1993.
Article 17: The "S.F.K.C" shall at all times maintain a special deposit account in the National Bank of
Cambodia into which all of its financial resources will be deposited promptly. The account and
all related financial transactions shall be subject to the provision of the organic Budget Law of
28 December, 1993.
CHAPTER VI
AMENDMENTS
Article 18: These Statutes may not be amended, altered or modified except by Royal Decree. In the evnt
of an inconsistency between an express provision of these Statutes and any law of the Kingdom
of Cambodia, the provisions of these Statutes shall prevail.
CHAPTER VII
CLOSING
Article 19: The Board of Directors shall determine the closing equity of the "S.F.K.C" and the end of its
mandate. It shall disburse all commitments to the relevant projects for expenditures incurred,
and shall thereafter transfer to the national budget the "S.F.K.C"'s capital in accordance with
the laws and regulations of the Kingdom of Cambodia and such other Provisions as shall be
applicable under said laws.



38
ANNEX B
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
ROYAL DECREE
Unofficial Translation
RD/1294/19
-Considering the constitution of the Kingdom of Cambodia.
-Considering the Royal Decree of Samdech Preah Norodom Sihanouk Varnan King of the
Kingdom of Cambodia, dated November 1,1993 on the appointment of the Royal Government
of Cambodia.
-Considering the Royal Law, dated July 20,1994 on the organization and management of
Cabinet of Ministers.
-Referring to the request of the first Prime Minister and second Prime Minister, dated
December 28,1994.
Therefore, it is Decided
Article 1:    -Appoint Samdech Krom Preah NORODOM RANARITH as the Co-
President of the Social Fund.
-Appoint Samdech HUN SEN as the Co-President of the Social Fund.
Article 2:    -Appoint H.E SOK AN as the Co-Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
Social Fund.
-Appoint H.E VENG SEREYVOUTH as the Co-Chairman of the Board of
Directors of the Social Fund.
Article 3:    -Appoint H.E HONG SUNHUOT as a member of the Board of Directors
of the Social Fund.
-Appoint H.E HENG VONGBUNCHHART as a member of the Board of
Directors of the Social Fund.
-Appoint H.E SUY SEM as a member of the Board of Directors of the Social
Fund.
-Appoint H.E SUN CHANTHOL as a member of the Board of Directors of
the Social Fund.
-Appoint H.E CHUM BUN RONG as a member of the Board of Directors and
as General Director of the Social Fund.
-Appoint H.E CHHAN SAPHAN as a member of the Board of Directors of
the Social Fund.
-Appoint Mr SENG RON as a member of the Board of Director of the Social
Fund.
-Appoint Mr. EAR LIMSOUR as member of the Board of Directors of the
Social Fund.
-Appoint Mr. UNG CHHEUT as a member of the Board of Directors of the
Social Fund.



39
ANNEX B
Page 2 of 2
Article 4:   -The First Prime Minister and the Second Prime Minister shall undertake
responsibility for implementing this Royal Decree.
Article 5:   -This Royal Decree shall become effective and in force from the day of signing
hereon.
Phnom Penh, December, 29, 1994
on behalf of the King
Acting Chief of State
Signature
Signed
CHEA SIM
Submitted to:                     Submitted to the King for His
The First and Second Prime Minister   Signature.
Co-Minister of Cabinet of         First Prime          Second Prime
Minister            Minister
Signature           Signature            Signature            Signature
Signed              Signed               Signed               Signed
SOK AN              VENG SEREYVOUTH NORODOM RANARITH   HUN SEN
No.: 11
Copied for Distribution
Phnom Penh, December 29, 1994
Deputy General Secretary of the Royal Government.
Signature
Signed
SIN SEREI



40
ANNEX C
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY PRINCIPLES
1. Poverty Targeting: Projects shall benefit the poor. The choice of the type of project can
ensure high coverage of poor people (" self-targeting"). Infiastructure improvement of primary
schools rather than of universities, for example, and of health clinics rather than of tertiary
hospitals would by their nature benefit the poor. Projects will also be targeted towards the
poorest regions according to a regional poverty index, based on relative regional access to social
services.
2. Eligible Applicants: The Social Fund will consider funding requests from public and private
entities representing communities and government. The Social Fund will not provide resources
directly to individuals to finance commercial undertakings or improve private property.
3. Government Programs and Expenditures: The Social Fund shall not supplement recurrent
budget expenditures of Government, nor shall it serve to replace normal sectoral activities and
responsibilities of the Government.
4. Sustainability: The Social Fund shall not finance vehicles, generators, and other equipment that
require continuous recurrent costs to operate.
5. Project Implementation: The Social Fund will not implement projects itself, but will rely on the
local capacity of both the sponsoring group and the implementing agency who will be
responsible for project implementation. Great importance is given, therefore, to appraising the
capacity of the implementing agencies to ensure the successful completion of the projects.
6. Project Identification and Sponsorship: The Social Fund shall not identify, initiate or sponsor
projects directly. Instead, it will respond to the demand for projects as proposed by community
groups and local governments or their sponsoring agencies. The Social Fund, government
agencies and other groups will promote, encourage and orient the demand for project financing.
7. Productive Investments: Projects shall be investments in social and economic productivity.
Projects that do not directly increase the productivity of the poor, such as construction of sport
fields and public administration buildings, shall not be eligible. Financing of recurrent costs will
not be eligible. Projects financing relief activities shall not be eligible.



41
ANNEX C
Page 2 of 2
8. Labor vs. Capital Intensive:  The Social Fund's objective of providing enployment
opportunities for the poor means that projects should be labor intensive or otherwise generate a
significant social impact (education and health infrastructure projects are not as labor intensive
as other types of infiastructure, but their social impact might be significant). Large scale
projects such as paved roads, high tech bridges and dams that require the use of heavy
equipment are not labor intensive and therefore are not eligible. Equipment purchases may have
a social impact (primary health equipment, school desks) and are justified, but applications
requesting high cost equipment that would make a project capital intensive (generators, dental
equipment, hospital diagnostic equipment) would not be accepted.
9. Project Costs and Benefits: Projects shall employ least cost designs and deliver the maximum
benefits for a given cost. Projects shall be appraised according to standard methods of
measuring costs and benefits.
10. Sectoral Policies: All Social Fund projects shall be consistent with national sectoral policies.
For example, all health and education infrastructure must comply with sectoral policies and
regulations.



42
ANNEX D
SFKC SUB-PROJECT MENU
IINFRASTRUCrURE                          DESCRIPTION                     RANKING
Prirary schools            Rehabilitation, expansion and  construction  of    I
operating government primary school facilities.
Lower secondary schools    Rehabilitation, expansion and construction of      2
operating governnent secondary school facilities
Vocational training centers    Rehabilitation, expansion and  construction  of  3
operating vocational training centers.
Commune clinics            Rehabilitation  and  expansion  of  operating      2
government commune clinic facilities.
District Hospitals         Rehabilitation  and  expansion  of  operating      2
government district hospital facilities.
Social Welfare Facilities  Rehabilitation and expansion of operating social   3
welfare facilities.
Water Supply               Rehabilitation, expansion  and  construction of    1
communal water supply facilities.       __
Piped Water                Repair, expansion and construction of public piped  3
water works.
Sewerage                   Repair, expansion and construction of sewerage     2
works.
Latrines                   Construction of latrines within NGO community      2
sanitation programns.
Drainage                   Repair, expansion and construction of drainage     3
works.
Rural Roads                Rehabilitation and construction of culverts and    2
bridges, as well as mninor road repairs, for
secondary and tertiary roads.
Irrigation                 Rehabilitation and construction of locks, gates and  2
sluice dams for operating communal irrigation
schemes that have an existing irrigation users
committee.
EQUIPMENT         :_:___:_                   __:_:_:___i:
Primary school equipment   Supply of classroom  equipment for operating       1
government primary schools.
Secondary school equipment   Supply of classroom  equipment for operating     2
government lower secondary schools.
Training center equipment  Supply of equipment for training centers.          3
Commnune clinic equipment    Supply of basic medical equipment for governnent  2
commnune clincs.
District hospital equipment    Supply of basic medical equipment for government  2
.district hospitals.
Social welfare equipment   Supply of basic equipment for social welfare       3
facilities.
1:SOCLAtLSERVICES
Small Business Training    Short term  skills training for small enterprise   2
development managed by reliable NGOs.
Public Health Training     Short term  public health and hygiene training     2
projects directed towards communities and run by
reliable NGOs.



43
ANNEX E
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
Objective
The technical assistance and training component of the Social Fund Project is designed to strengthen
the operational capacity of SFKC, by improving its overall eligibility and appraisal criteria and
procedures, and thus improve the quality of its sub-projects while improving their social impact.
Technical Assistance
External Audits: SFKC will hire an internationally recognized local firm to produce the annual
audits, as required by IDA. In addition local expertise will be hired to carry out a physical audit of
a sample of projects to assess their technical quality. Information from this technical study will
provide feedback to SFKC the overall cost of the project and accountability of funds used, as well
as on the quality of the works carried out. Based on this, recommendations would be made as to
how to improve criteria, procedures, and thus the quality of projects. In addition, the technical audit
will provide an opportunity to assess whether the operational and maintenance costs of SFKC-
financed projects are being covered.
MIS Advisor: Within the first year of operations, SFKC will hire a local expert to advise on the
equipment to be purchased by the SFKC, to design the network to be installed, and to create a
database system that enables the management of the overall project cycle, as well as all financing
operations.
Financial Management TA: In order to assist the SFKC in developing and improving its financial
programming and accounting procedures, local expertise may be hired.
Operational and Management Advisor: During the initial stage of SFKC operations, while the
operational and financial manuals are being fine-tuned based on actual operational experience,
international TA will be hired to advise and assist the General Director on the overall improvement
of procedures and criteria.
New Sub-projects: For any type of sub-project not yet identified in the sub-projects menu but of
interest to SFKC, local or international expertise will be hired to provide assistance in the design of
eligibility, appraisal, and supervision criteria for each new type of sub-project.
Promotion: In accordance with the need to improve and increase SFKC's outreach, local technical
assistance will be hired to assist the Promotions Department in organizing workshops with potential
applicants, as well as in designing regional or national information campaigns.



44
ANNEX E
Page 2 of 2
Legal Services: Part time legal services will be hired locally by SFKC to provide advice on legal
issues as and when they arise. The legal expert will verify that all policies, procedures and
regulations approved by the SFKC comply with national laws. In addition the legal expert will
oversee the compliance of all contracts and agreements that SFKC might have with third parties.
Computer and MIS Training: To improve the overall management of SFKC, the necessary local
expertise will be hired in order to train all professional and support staff of SFKC in the use of
computers and the MIS system.
Visits to Funds Abroad: Once SFKC has started operations, Department Directors will travel
abroad to visit other operating Social Funds so as to learn from their operational experience.
Impact Evaluations: In order to evaluate the social and economic impact of SFKC-financed
projects, SFKC will contract local and/or international consultants to carry out evaluations of sub-
projects on a sample basis. A beneficiary assessment methodology will be used to gain the feedback
of SFKC's clients -- sub-project beneficiaries, applicants, sponsoring agencies and implementing
agencies -- on how SFKC is responding to their needs and to gather data on the impact of the sub-
projects. Other surveys and impact evaluations may also be carried out on specific sub-project
types in order to evaluate whether operational procedures are in line with the eligibility criteria and
to evaluate the social and economic impact of specific sub-project types. Information from these
assessments will be used by SFKC management to make adjustments to their procedures so as to
improve fulfillment of their objectives and responsiveness to client concerns.



45
ANNEX F
Page 1 of 4
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
FUNCTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF SFKC
Board of Directors
* Establish and approve the operating policies and procedures
*   Approve the annual budget and financial regulations
*   Approve and ratify agreements entered into by the SFKC with donors
* Approve the Administration and Finance and Operational manuals
*   Propose the scope and content of reports to be submitted to the Executive Committee
Executive Committee
*   Approve applications for project financing
General Director
*   Direct and administer the day-to-day operations of the SFKC
*   Represent the SFKC in negotiations of agreements with donors
*   Appoint the staff of the SFKC
* Submit to the Executive Committee proposed projects for approval
Internal Audit Unit
*   Audit of finances
*   Audit of banking procedures
*   Audit of procurement procedures
*   Physical audit of projects
*   Audit of project costing MIS



46
ANNEX F
Page 2 of 4
Operations and Administration Advisory Unit
MIS Advisor
*   Computer specifications and installation
*   Network administration
*   Design and implementation of project MIS
*   Design and implementation of financial MIS
*   Design and implementation of project costing MIS
*   Management and maintenance MIS's
*   MIS training
Legal Advisor
*   Review procurement procedures
*   Project contracting
*   Warranties and guarantees
*   External supervisor contracting
*   Personnel contracting
*   Dispute resolution
*   Legal compliance of SFKC
*   Agreement negotiation
Administration and Finance Department
*   Personnel
*   Equipment and vehicles
*   Office supplies
*   Communications
*   Travel
*   Project portfolios and filing systems
*   Buildings and maintenance
*   Translation
*   Banking
*   Procurement of office equipment and supplies
   Project payments



47
ANNEX F
Page 3 of 4
*   Payroll
*   Operational expenses
*   Accounting statements and reports
*   Request of funds and statements of expenditure
Promotions Department
*   Develop and update targeting strategy
*   Design and coordinate workshops and meetings
*   Develop and implement promotion strategy
*   Develop and update application forms
*   Project registration
i   Liase with applicants
e   Screen applications
i   Ranking and prioritizing projects
i   Sectoral coordination at ministry level
e   Submit projects to appraisal unit
e   Update eligibility criteria and special conditions
Appraisal Department
-   Site appraisal visit
-   Sector co-ordination at local level
*   Identify possible local supervisors
*   Assist development and update project costing MIS
*   Develop standard designs and specifications
*   Cost projects
*   Prepare appraisal reports
*   Co-ordinate donor approval for projects as required
*   Submit appraisal report to Executive Committee
*   Inform applicant of Executive Committee doeskin
*   Prepare and submit detailed works package to Legal



48
ANNEX F
Page 4 of 4
Supervidon Department
*   Appoint external supervisor
*   Prepare detailed works package
*   Develop supervision schedule
* Initiate work at site
* Oversee technical quality of works
* Ensure compliance to contract
*   Supervise extemal supervisor
*   Calculate and authorize monthly progress payments
* Prepare and submit variations to Executive Committee
* Prepare and authorize practical completion certificate



49
ANNEX G
Page I of 4
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
OPERATIONAL MANUAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. OVERVIEW
1. OBJECTIVES OF THE SFKC
2. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
3. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
4. FUNCTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
5. OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK
6. PROJECT ELIGIBILITY PRINCIPLES
7. PROJECT MENU
8. DEMAND MANAGEMENT AND POVERTY TARGETING
B. PROMOTIONS
1. OVERVIEW
2. OUTREACH TOOLS
3. OUTREACH STRATEGY
4. APPLICATION
5. SCREENING AND REGISTRATION
6. SECTORAL COORDINATION
7. RANKING



50
ANNEX G
Page 2 of 4
C. APPRAISAL
1. OVERVIEW
2. SrrE VISITS
3. APPRAISAL CRITERIA
4. UNIT COST DATA BASE
5. APPRAISAL REPORT
6. WORKS PACKAGE
D. CONTRACTING AND PROCUREMENT
1. OVERVIEW
2. PROCUREMENT OF CIVL WORKS
3. PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND EQUIPMENT
4. PROJECT CONTRACTS
5. DISPUTE RESOLUTION
E. SUPERVISION
1. OVERVIEW
2.. INTERNAL SUPERVISOR
3. EXTERNAL SUPERVISOR
4. DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
5. VARIATIONS
6. PENALTIES



51
ANNEX G
Page 3 of 4
F. INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
1. PRIMARY SCHOOLS
2. LOWER SECONDARY SCHOOLS
3. VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTERS
4. ELIGIBLE APPLICANTS
5. COMMUNE CLINICS
6. DISTRICT HOSPITALS
7. WATER SUPPLY
8. RURAL ROADS
9. SOCIAL WELFARE FACILITIES
10. LATRINES
11. IRRIGATION
12. SEWERAGE SYSTEM
13. PIPED WATER SYSTEM
14. DRAINAGE
G. SERVICE PROJECTS
1. SMALL BUSINESS TRAINING
2. PUBLIC HEALTH TRAINING



52
ANNEX G
Page 4 of 4
H. EQUIPMENT PROJECTS
1. PRIMARY SCHOOL EQUIPMENT
2. LOWER SECONDARY SCHOOL EQUIPMENT
3. VOCATIONAL CENTER EQUIPMENT
4. CLINIC EQUIPMENT
S. DISTRICT HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT
6. SOCIAL WELFARE EQUIPMENT



53
ANNEX H
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
FINANCE AND ADMbIISTRATION MANUAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.   OVERVIEW
2.  RULES AND REGULATIONS
3.  STRUCTURES AND FUNCTIONS
ADMINISTRATION MANUAL
1.  CONTROL OVER THE ACQUISITION AND UTILIZATION OF VEHICLES
2.  CONTROL OVER THE ACQUISMON, UTILIZATION OF OFFICE EQUIPMENT
3.  OFFICE FURNITE
4.  OFFICE SUPPLIES
5.  BUILDINGS MAINTENANCE
6.  GENERAL OFFICE UPKEEP
7.  FACSIMILE TRANSMISSIONS
8.  RECEPTION/TELEPHONE
9.  INTRA-DEPARTMENTAL MAIL SERVICES
10. MAIL SERVICE
11. TRAVEL
12. MEETINGS



54
ANNEX H
Page 2 of 2
PERSONNEL MANUAL
1.  JOB DESCRIPTIONS
2.  PAYROLL
3.  APPOINTMENT
4.  STAFF EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS
5.  STAFF TRAINING AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT
6.  PERSONAL RECORD OF STAFF
7.  STAFF WELFARE
8.  LEAVE ENTITLEMENT AND HOLIDAYS
9.  RESIGNATION
10.  CODE OF CONDUCT
1I.  ATTENDANCE AND HOURS OF WORK
FINANCE MANUAL
1.  INTRODUCTION
2.  FAU PERSONNEL FUNCTIONS
3.  ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL PROCEDURES
4.  ADMINISTRATION UNIT
5.  ACCOUNTING UNIT
6.  OPERATIONS FLOW



55
ANNEX I
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
PROPJECT CYCLE
Targeting Strategy
Premnotiu. _ epartment.|                                                 tOutreach                 W j   Prepare Project                                                      AppHcant
prasa Department                                              St                                                       AppAication                                                 on
Screer                                            Submit Project
Eligibility                                     Ap liato
i                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~                  ~            ~         ~~~Regis rton  Rejection/
of Appricatlon                                     Reformulation
Sectoral                    - reject
LWne Minestry
Co-ordination
:  ...  ...................... .......... ..... .... ......... ...                    ... ..... .. . . .... . .... .... ............. .... .... ..... ............. .... .... ..... .... ................. ..... .... ......... .... ........
CnRanking of
Applications             oje                                                 Beel|r,Apcn
Apprdel Department                                           DSite Appraisal Visio   reJect                                                                            C ont
i   >                                                                  *~~~~~~~~~~~nd Local Goverrnment
Project Costing
|Submit Project |
Appraisal Report |
~~~~~~~~~~~~..=....  ..-.........  .....      . .                            .....  .. .  ....
Executive Cemmittee                                        |Project Approval|
..  . .....................................................  ..............................  ...---.................... ................. .............  ...................   ........................   . ....... ................. ..............  ............
Lepl ~        ~           ~         ~          Qalt ofstmn  ReiworsI                     L         ~          sjLclSprio
A rese Prgrs                                                                                        ApProcurementplcand
Monitoraing of
Works Pcaeo   ok                                                                                                pno
.                                                                        .   .  .   .  .  . ...   . .. .... . ....... .. ,. , = . - . .-. . .-. - ................ ... ..... ..... ... ... ..... ..... ........ .. ..... ...... ..     .. ..... .. ... ..... ..... .. . ... ...     .   ....   ..     . .. . . . .....   ....
ProcursementofI                             t         Irpent 
F1mnee Depsrtment + Funds ~~~~~Contracting ;
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ... .    . ....                                                  ... .. .... ...     .-           .. . .... . ... .   . .   ................. .   ... .. . .... .... ..     .-. .. ... .... ... ... .
Finanerve Department                                         OvesenTehncac_tnoit
i                         _2 Authorise Progress |                                                                                        Appilernt *rojec
..........................................    ..............................................   ............_ .   ..     .. ............. .   ..............   .     .....   ..........     ............   ...   ..    .. .....   .....   ...    ........   ......   .......   ...............
SupervknDepartmen                              Overseetechnicand                                           OnSt
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oa Superviingr



56                                             ANNEX J
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
r                                                        This    Year   Annual   % YTD
Indicators                       Month    to        Plan    to Plan
Date
1 Amount of sub-projects approved ($1
2 No. of sub-projects approved
3 Total disbursements M$)
IDA
Government of Cambodia
4 Applicant/Sponsor Contribution (0)
5 Sub-projects cancelled/suspended
Number of sub-projects
Disbursed amount (M)
..,..x*x.r:d:. ,2'~4t                            SS4~ S. 0    ..g ;.
Approval Process
6 No. of sub-project applications received
Detail by Applicant Type
7 No. of sub-projects appraised
8 No. of sub-projects contracted
9 Average Processing Time (Weeks)                                    _
Appraisal to Approval
Approval to Contract
Implementation
10 No. of sub-projects in execution
11 No. of sub-projects completed
12 Average Elapsed Time
First Disbursement to Completion
13 Percentage of approved amount (0) by sector
Education
Health
Social welfare
Water & Sanitation
Rural Roads
Irrigation
Services
14 Percentage of approved amount ($) by Province
Analysis by Province by Urban/rural
1 5 Number of direct beneficiaries (completed projects)
1 6 Number of person months employment generated
Approved Projects
Disbursing Projects
Completed projects
17 Value of Contracts NCB
18 Value of Local Shopping
19 Value of Direct Contracts
20 Number of Direct Contractors
21 Number of External Supervisors
W         wa"'01                I  MI;sNes                                                   w.3-:s,s
22 Salaries and Fees                                                         _
23 Operating Costs



SOCIAL FUND OF THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA                                                                                     ANNEX K
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
DOk     P     Cost
US.
C_pzwy                        YEAR:1 Jan4Cec  19i5                  YEAR 2 Jan4Cac I  im                 YEAR 3 Jan4-.c 1 97        j       YEAR 4 Jan4Oec  1I95                 TOTAL
_________-___LOCAL      FOREIGN       TOTAL        LOCAL      FOREIGN      TOTAL   |  LOCAL       FOREIGN       TOTAL  j  LOCAL        FOREIGN      TOTAL       LOCAL      FOREIGN      TOTAL
SfKC nlennSupi   - _
F.s aW  Sa*.ks                         114,927          .        114,927     344,781          .       344,781     344.781                 344.781     30Z811          .       302,811    1,107,300         .     1,107,300
VYSim InW EqL*~                         19,800      176,733      196,533         .         41,667      41,667         .           .           -           .           .           -         19,600     216,400     236.200
Opesug E      _g-                       4s,035        7,915       53.950      114,305      23,745     138,050     11 2,65      23,745     13e,350     102,405      23,745      126,150     375,350      79,150     454,500
Tchn*SAsstrjcin                        44,800       11 ,200      56,o00     112,000       28,000     140,000     118.400      29,600     148,000      44,800      11,200      58,000     320,0OW      80,000      400.000
TrahS                                    7,500       17,500       25,000      22,500      52,s50       75,00          -           .           .           .                       .        30,000       70,000     100,000
Sub-ni lnsbtionl Suppwot               233,082      213,348      446,410     503,586      145,912     739,498     575.786      53,345     829,131     450,016      34,945     464.961    1,852,450     447,550    2,300.000
Sub-pnolects Finncing
ln*uucsrs                              290,175      138,825      429,000   1l644,325      786,675    2,431,ODD   3,675,550    1.758,450   5,434,000    4.082,450    1.943,550   6,006,0O0    9,672,500    4,627,500   14,300,00O
Equpe                                   92,788       25,350      118,147     407,565      124,876      22,441    1,072,965    252,976    1,325,941    1.166,682   268,788    1,433,471    2,830,000    670,000    3,500,000
sate                                    26,400        6,600       33,000     149,600       37,400     187,000     334.400      83,800     418,000     369,eco      92,400     462,000      880,000     220,000    1,100,000
Sub-ni Sub-pcts                        409,363      170,784      580,147    2,291,490     948,951    3,240,441    5,082,915    2,065,026    7.177,941    5,508,732    2,302,738    7,901,471   13.382,500    5,517,500   18,900,000
Unaiiucatd                                                                                                                                                                                            1,000,0C0
Tag Project Cost               42,425      384,132     1,026,587    2.85e,076    1,094,863    3,979,939    5,858,701    2,148,371    7,807,072    6,048,748   2,337,663    8,386.431   15,234,980    5,965,050   22,200,000
rn
rn



58
ANNEX L
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT METHODS
Categories of        Social Fund   Social Fund        World Bank      World Bank
Expenditure          Procurement  Disbursement        Approval        Disbursement
Method       Method              Requirement    Documentation
Civil Works          Direct       Tranches based on   ex-post review    SOEs
< $50,000            contracting   physical progress    of sub-project
summaries
Civil Works          Local        Tranches based on   ex-post review    SOEs
>$50,000<$100,000   Shopping      physical progress    on sample basis
Civil Works          Local        Advance plus        prior review    full documentation
>$100,000<$250,000  competitive   reimbursement of
bidding      expenditures
Equipment            Local        reimbursement of    ex-post review    SOEs
<$50,000             shopping     expenditures        of SOEs
Equipment            Local        reimbursement of    prior review    full documentation
>$50,000< $100,000   Competitive  expenditures
bidding
Special NGO          Direct       advance plus        prior review of   SOEs
managed sub-         contracting   reimbursement of    sub-project
projects: recurrent               expenditures        grant and ex-
costs                                                 post review of
SOEs
Social Fund Admin.   Guidelines   reimbursement of    audit           SOEs
Expenditures         not          expenditures
applicable
Technical Assistance   WB         tranches            WB guidelines   SOEs or full
and Consultant       guidelines                       on consultants   documentation, as
Contracts            on                                               appropriate
consultants



59
ANNEX M
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                     Disbursements                       Disbursement
and Semester                                                           Profile a/ (%)
Semester        Cumulative       Cumulative as
% of total
FY96
Jul - Dec, 95           0.5               0.5               2.5
Jan- Jun, 96            1.0               1.5               7.5               15
FY97
Jul - Dec 96            1.5               3.0               15
Jan - Jun 97            3.0               6.0               30                39
FY98
Jul - Dec 97            4.5              10.5              52.5
Jan - Jun 98            6.0              16.5              82.5               63
FY99
Jul - Dec 98            3.5              20.0              100
Jan - Jun 99                                                                  87
FY2000
Jul - Dec, 99                                                                100
a/ Disbursement profile for Guatamala Social Fund project used as a model, as no standard disbursement
profiles are available for Cambodia or for Social Fund projects.



60
ANNEX N
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Baer, G. 1995. Health Sector Analysis and Programme Criteria Guidelines for SFKC,
consultants report prepared for the World Bank and SFKC.
Bentall, P. 1995. Consultants Report on the Rural Roads Component of the Social Fund Project.
Carvalho, S. 1994. Social Funds: Guidelines for Design and Implementation, Human Resources
Development and Operations Policy Working Paper 34.
Carvalho, S. 1994. Cambodia Social Fund: Reaching the Poor, background paper on targeting
prepared for the Social Fund Project.
Cummins and Sinyangwe, 1994. Regional Officers Manual for the Microprojects Unit in The
Zambia.
Cummins and Sinyangwe, 1994. Administration Manual for the Microprojects Unit in The
Zambia.
Glaessner, P. 1994. Poverty Alleviation and Social Investment Funds: The Latin American
Experience, prepared by LA2HR, World Bank.
McCarthy S., 1995. Consultants Report on the Educational Infrastructure Component of the
Social Fund.
Naur M., 1994. Social and Institutional Aspects of a Social Fund Project in Cambodia,
consultants report prepared for the World Bank.
Rihouey J., 1995. Water and Sanitation: Technical Options for Rural and Poor Urban Areas in
Cambodia, consultants report prepared for the World Bank and SFKC.
SFKC, 1995. SFKC Operations Manual (draft), March 1995.
SFKC, 1995. SFKC Finance and Administration Manual (draft), March 1995.
SIMAP, 1992. Operations Manual for the Guyana Social Fund.
World Bank, 1995. Social Fund Project Supervision Plan, prepared by EA1HR.






I.
I
I
P
~~~~~~~HAGTNG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Report   No:  14010  KH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Type:   SAP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



