Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21849
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27390; TF-29233)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
FOR THE SOCIAL FUND I PROJECT
February 28, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1995)
Currency Unit = Riel
Riels 2,613 = US$ I
US$ I = Riels 2,613
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARERE                       Cambodia Areas Regeneration and Rehabilitation
CAS                          Country Assistance Strategy
FRR                          Financial Rate of Retum
ICR                          Implementation Completion Report
IDA                          Intemational Developmnent Association
IP                           Indigeneous Peoples
NGO                          Non Governmental Organization
NPA                          Norwegian People's Aid
NP                           Net Present
NPV                          Net Present Value
OPEC                         Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PADEK                        Partner for Development in Kampuchea
PHRD                         Policy and Human Resources Development
QAG                          Quality Assurance Group
RGC                          Royal Govemment of Cambodia
SAR                          Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                          Special Drawing Rights
SF                           Social Fund
SFKC                         Social Fund Kingdom of Cambodia
TA                           Technical Assistance
UNDP                         United Nations Development Program
WFP                          World Food Program
Vice President:    Jemal ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager/Director:    Maureen Law
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Christopher Chamberlin



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
SOCIAL FUND I PROJECT
(CR NO. 2739-KH)
Preface
This is the Implemation Completion Report (ICR) for the Social Fund (SF) I Project to the
Kingdom of Cambodia. This Credit (No. 2739-KH) in the amount of US$ 20 million equivalent, was
approved by the Board on June 8, 1995 and made effective on December 12, 1995. SDR 13.3 million were
disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on November 12, 1999. A balance of SDR .0979 million
was cancelled. The credit was closed on June 30, 2000.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Teck Ghee Lim, Sr. Social Sector Specialist, (EASES) under the
overall direction of Maureen Law, Acting Sector Director (EASHD), and reviewed by Mr. Christopher
Chamberlin, Principal Operations Officer, (EACTF), Ms. Maryam Salim, Operations Officer, (EACTF)
and Mr. Zafar Ahmed, Country Program Officer, (EACSM) .
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission in January - February
2000. The ICR is based on the Credit Agreement, annual reviews, supervision reports, and other material
in the project file, in addition to discussions with the borrower.  The borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by compiling statistical data, preparing an evaluation of the project's
implementation, and commenting on the draft ICR.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               6
6. Sustainability                                                                   8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 12
9. Partner Comments                                                                14
10. Additional Information                                                         15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              27






Project ID: P037088                                      Project Name: KH-SOCIAL FUND (Project closed)
Team Leader: Christopher Chamberlin                     | TL Unit: EACTF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: February 22, 2001
1. Project Data
Name. KH-SOCIAL FUND (Project closed)               L/C/TFNumber. IDA-27390; TF-29233
CountryIDepartment: CAMBODIA                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: SA - Social Assistance
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/28/94                               Effective: 06/08/95           12/21/95
Appraisal:  02/22/95                                 MTR: 12/31/97             09/21/97
Approval: 06/08/95                                Closing: 12/31/99            06/30/2000
Borrower/lfmplementing Agency: KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA/DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Russell Cheetham
Country Manager:    Ian C. Porter                             Callisto Madavo
Sector Manager:      Maureen Law                              Jayasankar Shivakurnar
Team Leader at ICR:   Christopher Chamberlin                  Christopher Chamberlin
ICR Primary Author:   Teck Ghee Lim
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: HS                    HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project are to support the Government's efforts to reduce poverty through (a)
financing small-scale projects for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of social and economic
infrastructure; (b) creating short-term employment opportunities; (c) expanding community opportunities to
identify local development needs and manage small-scale development projects; and (d) increasing line



ministry experience and capacity in developing investment criteria for local infrastructure construction.
Objectives were assessed to be clear and realistic. Although in line with borrower circumstances
and development priorities, the project, owing to its complexity and the nature of work requiring
processing, screening, financing and supervising a large number of sub-projects from all over the country,
carried a moderate level of risk. This risk was compounded by the weak management capacity existing
within the country and the lack of coordination between central and provincial levels of government.
All foreseeable risks were anticipated by strong project preparation, rigorous procedures to ensure
project integrity, and supportive measures aimed at ensuring strong staffing capacity.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable. There were no changes in the original objectives set out in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR).
3.3 Original Components:
The project would consist of two components. Under the first component financing would be
provided for seed capital for Social Fund Kingdom of Cambodia (SFKC) to finance sub-projects primarily
in the areas of public infrastructure and services, as further described in the Project cost table below. The
second component would consist of institutional support for SFKC's establishment and operations
including (a) financing of salaries, vehicles, equipment, and operating expenses; and (b) technical
assistance and training to improve SFKC's operational capacity and procedures.
Local           Foreign           Total
SFKC Sub-projects
Social Infrastructure                       6.95              3.20            10.15
Economic hifrastructure                     2.72              1.43            4.15
Equipment                                   2.83              0.67            3.50
Social Services                             0.88              0.22             1.10
Sub-total Sub-Projects                          13.38             5.52            18.90
Institutional Support
Salaries and Fees                              1.11             0.00             1.11
Vehicles and Equipment                         0.02              0.22            0.24
Operating Expenses                             0.37              0.08            0.45
Technical'Assistance and Training              0.35              0.15            0.50
Sub-total Institutional Support                 1.85              0.45            2.30
- 2 -



Base Cost                                         15.23             5.97             21.20
Unallocated                                       0.70              0.30              1.00
Total Project Cost                                15.93             6.27             22.20
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no revision in the component costing from the original components above.
3.5 Quality at Entry.
See other additional information in Section 10.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project was successful in meeting its objective of financing small-scale projects for the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of social and economic infrastructure. These outputs were achieved
speedily, with cost efficiency, and widely across the country during a tumultuous and difficult period in the
nation's recent history. By end December 1999, the project had provided 1,436 sub-grants to small scale
irrigation, bridges and culverts, sewerage and drainage, water supply, education and health facilities and
other investments.
The project was also successful in its objective of creating short term employment opportunities
and facilitating the return to a peace time economy. At the time of the project, the ongoing conflict with
the Khmer Rouge forces coupled with a wave of refugees returning to their homes, had exacerbated the
poverty situation and under-employment in the country. This called for employment generation as an
important objective for SF I. The objective was built into project design through sub-project eligibility
rules limiting SF I to the financing of sub-projects with a high labor content. It is estimated that more than
39,900 person/months of employment was created for skilled and unskilled workers and local technicians.
Direct local benefits in the form of local sales of materials were also generated.
The third objective of the project was to expand community opportunities to identify local
development needs and manage small scale projects. At the end of the project, nearly 90 percent of the
project applications were received from the communities themselves. For more complex projects, some
local conimunities have sought assistance from locally-based intemational organizations and Non
Government Organizations (NGOs) in preparatory work and maintenance of the facilities. While the
project has had impact nation-wide, it has also been able to benefit the least-served areas of the country.
Three poverty-related criteria were used to screen sub-project proposals: the poverty or vulnerability status
of applicants, the likely social impact of projects, and provincial shares based on the province's access to
basic social services and its population. In the initial period of the project. the methodology resulted in the
more remote and politically turbulent areas receiving smaller allocations due to security and transport
problems, and a lesser capacity to prepare the necessary documentation for complex and costly projects.
However, this bias was corrected and a mid term mission found that "the equitable distribution of SFKC
projects by province makes it difficult to substantiate claims of partisan or regional bias". The observation
was also made that "in provinces known to be supportive of the recently ousted national leaders, the team
-3-



saw that a sample of the many projects ... are physically there and of above average quality." By the
project end, sub-projects had been implemented in all provinces. Though provincial allocations could not
take into account intra-provincial disparities due to the paucity of data, under-served areas such as
Kampong Cham and Prey Veng received higher than average allocations and almost all districts of the
country benefited from sub-projects (86% of all districts).
One key indicator of the success of the project in assisting communities with development
infrastructure was the large number of eligible applications whose financing was not possible within the
size of the first credit. Estimated at over 5,000 in January 2000 and with a value of over US$64 million,
these applications and other unmet needs of the rural population in social and economic infrastructure led
the Government to request for a second Social Fund project even before the end of the first Fund.
Finally the project had limited success in increasing line ministry experience and capacity in
developing investment criteria for local infrastructure. Although basic designs for SF I sub-projects
(schools, health centers, culverts, bridges, etc.,) were approved by ministries, follow-up interaction and
knowledge transfer has been less than expected. One of the problems identified by project assessments was
the limited dissemination and use of SFKC prepared information by the partner agencies. The operational
manual, for exarnple, was intended to increase knowledge of approaches and methodologies used by the
SFKC for the various infrastructure projects. However, there was evidence of limited use of these materials
by line ministry staff as shown by the lack of familiarity with the project cycle and procedures. Lack of
success with increasing line ministry knowledge also appears, in part, to be due to the limitations of line
ministries' technical staff who were constrained by the structure of their institutional responsibilities, the
lack of institutional support from their organizations, and the previous training. The line ministries' staff
were usually responsible for giving technical support, not just to SFKC projects, but also to other projects.
This work overload, ane a general lack of resources, low salaries and few incentives to perform well,
contributed to discouraging field staff from putting much energy or effort into the learning and
implementation of SFKC projects, and inhibited the exchange process.
In summary, it can be said that, despite the complexity of the project and the moderately level of
risk it entailed, the outcome was responsive to borrower circumstances and development priorities.
4.2 Outputs by components:
According to the project appraisal, total project costs was to total $22.2 million with the proposed
credit of $20 million fmancing about 90% of total costs and the Government contributing $1.2 million
in budgetary and in kind support with the remainder contributed by the applicants. It was also estimated
that up to a maximum of $1 million equivalent would be available for retroactive financing.
At the beginning of the project, the potential SF I investments were classified into three broad
categories: social infrastructure, economic infrastructure, social services. Initial estimates indicated that
$18.9 million of the total project cost of $22.20 million would be spent on these components with $10.15
million to be spent on social infrastructure, $4.15 million on economic infrastructure and $1.10 on social
services and with the balance of $3.5 million to be spent on a common equipment sub-component. Initial
costs data also estimated that $2.3 million of the total project was to be spent on Institutional Support
made up of salaries and fees ($1.11 million); vehicles and equipment ($0.24 million); operating expenses
($0.45 million); and technical assistance and training ($0.50 million).
At project end, the estimated expenditure against planned estimates are as given in Annex 2.
- 4 -



The SAR of May 11, 1995 had noted that "given the fact that SFKC is a financial intennediary
and is demand-driven by nature, the actual breakdown will depend on demand and operational experience."
Final project costs were well in line with original projections.
In terms of output, at the project end, 70.7% of allocations had gone to educational facilities,
followed by water supply facilities (10.7%), rural roads and transport (8.5%) health (6.9%) and agriculture
(3.1%). These sectors represented areas of national priority and the sub-projects contributed to meeting
the substantial backlog of basic infrastructure needs in the country. At the time of the project, building
audits had showed that roughly half of the 27,000 classrooms were in need of repair and/or reconstruction,
with many communities unable to bear the cost of infrastructure provision and maintenance and the line
agency unable to manage due to inadequate administrative, managerial and financial capacity. The
significant expenditure on education-related sub-projects by SF I helped meet a major need in the
educational sector in the country.
Besides improving access to education (building or rehabilitating over 500 schools and
constructing 4,411 new classrooms) the project made an important contribution to the health sector
through the construction of 2,767 water wells, 1,535 latrines, 78 health clinics, and one referral hospital.
Achievement in provision of economic infrastructure was also considerable through the
rehabilitation of some 17,000 square meters of bridges/culverts and repair of 25,000 cu. meters of dikes.
An estimated 3,800 hectares of agricultural land was estimated to have been provided with irrigation
through the project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No Net Present Value (NPV) was calculated for the project at appraisal because of the wide menu
and small size of sub-projects planned for support. Hence, no Net Present (NP) was necessary for the ICR.
In place of the NPV, the project developed a database of unit costs that was regularly updated on the basis
of market surveys to establish the local cost of materials. This procedure, borrowed from the experience of
other social funds, has proven to be generally effective in ensuring that the construction costs of
sub-projects have been contained within the range of similar projects, including other projects financed by
the Bank.
On the benefit side, the project utilizes counts of "potential" beneficiaries to assess the potential
"return" of sub-projects. According to SFKC, an estimated 3.3 million beneficiaries have benefited from
the sub-projects. This number included I million beneficiaries in the various health related sub-projects;
0.37 million in education sub-projects; 1.2 million in transport-related sub-projects; and 0.47 million in
water and sanitation-related sub-projects.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No Financial Rate of Retum (FRR) was calculated for the project at appraisal and the ICR did not
compute the FRR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The extent to which the project enhanced the country's ability to make effective use of its human
and financial resources was considerable. Firstly, the project resulted in the rapid and successful
establishment of a demand-driven government institution, the SFKC, which was able to undertake rapid
- 5-



and effective financing of infrastructure projects and other employment generating activities. Despite
capacity constraints in parts of the country which affected performance in some areas, the break-in period
for the new institution was relatively short and staff were able to sustain a high level of operational output
in the project. Apart from its own staff, the project contracted nearly 100 external supervisors at local
level for technical supervision and to ensure quality. This helped to increase the pool and skills of
technically qualified personnel in the country.
Secondly, the project generated partnership and synergies between the SFKC and other line
agencies on the one hand, and SFKC and civil society on the other. Coordination and cooperation were
strongest with the Ministry of Education and Ministry of Health and less so with the Ministry of Water
Resources and local authorities. Participation by NGOs included lending their expertise and experience in
community programs and service as well as through their direct involvement in applying for subproject
financing and assisting community driven applications by sponsoring them.
A third group that benefited was the private sector of small and medium scale contractors engaged
in sub-project work. This group had its turnover and capacity increased by the substantial infusion of
project activity. Local contractors, however, failed to benefit as much as initially expected with a survey of
120 sub-projects in 1998 finding that two thirds of the contractors were based outside the comrnmunity, and
not local contractors (Sawa Cambodia 1998, p.16). An estimated 230 contractors and over one thousand
technicians were estimated to have benefited directly from project-related work and exposure to the project'
s good practices and technical standards.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
Following the first year of project operations and the receipt of an overwhelming number of
applications, concern was expressed by the Bank supervisory team of the lack of donor co-fmancing for
sub-projects. Emphasis was laid on the need to attract donor financial support to enable the SFKC to fully
meet the demand for its services. This problem gradually eased as the reputation of the SFKC improved.
By September 1997, the project was able to report of a substantial increase in co-financing from NGOs and
donors at the sub-project level. However, the SFKC had not been able to mobilize additional capital
resources as overall project cofinancing. This would not materialize until SF II with American Assistance
for Cambodia and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) Fund.
In the initial phase of the project, SFKC also experienced some difficulties in working in remote
provinces which limited sub-project activities in them.  The location of SFKC in Phnom Penh and
considerable time needed to develop the outreach program of the project also made it more difficult for
project information to reach communities in outlying areas. Over time, however, the promotional work of
the project and increased awareness of it have resulted in more widespread knowledge of the project. It
has also generated problems of a different kind related to over-expectations of the scope and ability of the
project to respond to community needs in social and economic infrastructure. By the end of 1997, the
project had received more than 5,000 project proposals valued at US$68.7 million which far exceeded its
original planned scope.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The continuation of a national development strategy focused on rural development and poverty
reduction provided the positive context for project operations. Evidence of this could be seen in a number
- 6 -



of ways, including in the provision of bridge financing from the government, the support of the Ministry of
Finance in delegating all financial management responsibilities over International Development Association
(IDA) and counterpart funds to SFKC, and the government's agreement not to exercise its prior review
procedure for SFKC procurements. Support also came from the agreement reached between SFKC and the
Ministry of Health for SFKC to undertake procurement and construction management of over $9 million of
health facility civil works under another Bank project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency was generally responsive to changing sector needs, being able to move
relatively quickly from an initial prioritization of the education sector to a stronger focus on economic
infrastructure, including irrigation, flood control works, transport improvements, water supply and
sanitation. In the latter stages of the project, despite nearly attaining full disbursement of resources, SFKC
was able to sustain operational activities by obtaining a substantial contract for implementation of civil
works under the Disease Control and Health Development project of the Ministry of Health.
While the overall performance of staff during SF I was highly satisfactory, technical standard
problems in a minority of sub-projects indicated the need to improve appraisal and supervision techniques
in some sectors and to upgrade standards so as to ensure cost effectiveness and increase rates of return.
A major issue was in the area of govemance. The challenge of preventing corruption in SFKC
operations was apparent to the Bank appraisal and supervision teams, given Cambodia's reputation for
misusing public resources. The project design aimed to control unit costs and apply pressure from high
technical quality so as to persuade contractors and staff to refrain from rent seeking. This was combined
with a rigorous financial auditing framework. After some initial problems with appraisal and notification
procedures, unit costs and some indirect evidence of SFKC tampering with applicants' right to procure, the
supervision team imposed a substantial technical and procurement audit and revised cost appraisal
procedures, which had the apparent effect of discouraging such abuses. However, the use of the direct
contracting procurement method, while justified on efficiency grounds in a reconstruction situation, was
also a persistent risk in that it encouraged procurement which was less transparent. This problem would
recur in SF II.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Financing for SF I has come from the IDA credit (no. 2739 KH) of Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
equivalent 13.4 million. A Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant of $504,000 (no:
29233-KH) was also used to finance Technical Assistance (TA) for the Project Preparation Unit to develop
SFKC operational and administrative procedures and to finance operating expenses.
As of 31 March 2000, SFKC had disbursed SDR 13.39 million or 99.9 per cent of the original
credit value. The original credit amount had been estimated at US$20 million but this was subsequently
revised to US$18.4 million. SFKC also received an additional US$9 million to implement the civil works
component of the Disease Control and Health Development project implemented by the Ministry of Health.
Together with the original credit, the financing plan of SF I had envisaged that Royal Government
of Cambodia (RGC) would provide counterpart funds of 5 % of the loan amount in budgetary and in-kind
support, while applicants/sponsors of sub-projects would provide an estimated 5% as counterpart
contribution. These amounts were delivered, and in addition, donors and NGOs cofinanced sub projects at
- 7 -



a level of $1 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of sub-projects is rated likely. The great majority of educational, health, irrigation,
road rehabilitation and water work facilities were observed to be well functioning by regular missions.
Although responsibility for operation and maintenance ostensibly lie with the respective line agencies and
local authorities, the SFKC also has a role in ensuring sustainable use and maintenance of the assets
created. At the time of project appraisal, the project report indicated that the need for community
"ownership" to ensure sustainability had been one of the main lessons drawn from other social fund
projects. However, sustainability was not set up as one of the main objectives because of the project's
primary concern with the rapid and cost effective delivery of sub-projects.   Another reason why
sustainability concerns were not more integrated into project operational activities was the assumption that
a demand driven identification process would ensure community ownership and that line agencies would
take over operations and maintenance of sub-projects.
Following completion of sub-projects and emergence of some sustainability problems, especially
in the water sector, capacity-building of communities has became a greater source of concern as SF I
neared its completion. Buttressed by the findings and recommendations of a beneficiary assessment which
drew attention to sustainability challenges, and a fourth technical assessment which focused on technical
quality of investments, the project implemented a number of actions to strengthen beneficiary participation
and community ownership of sub-projects. These actions included:
i) the modification of applicant eligibility requirements to focus on applications from groups and
to de-emphasize those from individuals, with priority given to community-based applicants such as
village development committees, community production groups, irrigation user groups and water
user groups;
ii) improvement of the sub-project operational cycle to increase the role and responsibility of
communities in defining sub-project choices; make greater provisions for counterpart contribution;
and to ensure that communities are committed to long term maintenance;
iii) increasing applicant contribution requirements from 5 to 10 per cent.
Other community building activities have included broader consultation with line ministries and
provincial authorities about planned sub-projects, stakeholder participation in ground-breaking and
hand-over ceremonies, joint supervision and monitoring site visits, the inclusion of NGO and govemment
members in local development/project maintenance committees, and the co-ordination of development
strategies with other partners to help enhance sustainability.
Sustainability challenges that lie ahead can be grouped in several broad areas:
i) the need to increase community participation and local ownership of sub-projects;
ii) the need to improve the post hand over performance of various sub-projects requiring greater
attention to maintenance and utilization standards, e.g. in the water sector;
- 8 -



iii) the need to ensure the durability of assets in poorer parts of the country where limited resources
are available for maintenance, and where communities are less aware of the importance of
maintenance and organized to carry it out; and
iv) the need for new technical skills and higher levels of coordination in more complex and larger
scale projects.
Overall, for the project as a whole, these challenges point to the need for a shift of emphasis in
operational policies towards   promoting more sustainability, local ownership and community
empowerment, as well as for attainment of higher technical standards and greater coordination with line
agencies and other partner and support organizations without losing the goals of broad coverage and
efficiency.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As of December 31, 1998 SF I had approved 1,431 sub-projects representing US$17.05 million or
92.6% of the US$28.4 million IDA credit amount. As applications for eligible projects totaling over
US$50 million had accumulated, and with the entire credit expected to be fully disbursed by May 31, 1999,
a Social Fund II project was appraised in March 1999.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA's performance in preparation of the project from the identification stage to preparation and
appraisal was highly satisfactory. The project was a key element of the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) through its support of critical rehabilitation and reconstruction. It was also clearly in line
with the govemment's development priorities. Bank's assistance in preparation enabled the borrower
through its Project Preparation Unit to take into account the major design issues and enabled coverage of
key aspects, including technical, socio-economic and institutional. It also helped to ensure consistency
with the Bank's policies. A social assessment conducted during project preparation helped in providing a
better understanding of the social and institutional context.
Bank appraisal confirmed the urgent need of the project, the interest and commitment of the
Government, and strong support from Government, donors and NGOs. Project design issues and
complexity were well covered by principles and procedures aimed at ensuring autonomy and transparency
of operations, including establishment of rigorous eligibility and appraisal criteria, procurement standards,
provisions for prior Bank approval, adherence to strict unit cost ceilings for sub-projects, and financial
management through internal and external auditing (for a list of these principles and procedures, see
Annexes C - M in SAR).
Bank staff and consultants had a good mix of specialized skills and operational expertise. Besides
including staff from key sectors such as economic, legal and financial, the Bank's team included members
with experience in Social Fund operations in other parts of the world, thus enabling the project to
incorporate lessons in design right from the beginning.
7.2 Supervision:
IDA supervision was evaluated by Quality Assurance Group (QAG) as excellent and is rated here
-9-



as highly satisfactory. The appraisal report, drawing on the experience of other social funds had anticipated
the need for intensive supervision due to its demand driven nature, the large number of sub-projects to be
reviewed, and the importance of discouraging financial mis-allocations.  Thus, it had planned for an
estimated 2-3 supervision missions totaling 20-30 staff weeks annually. At the end of the project, a total of
8 supervision missions had been conducted totaling 62.7 staff weeks.
Bank missions enabled project implementation to be effectively monitored. Prior warning of
implementation problems had been earlier identified through trial sub-projects. This resulted in the
establishment of better operating systems, procedures and policies prior to effectiveness. Operational and
administrative manuals which were developed and finalized as part of credit effectiveness were also
constantly reviewed and revised. Regular supervisory missions provided guidance on a range of issues
covering the sub-project cycle to procurement, accounts, and audits, and other operational and
policy-related matters.  The missions also provided TA to the Project Preparation Unit to pinpoint
problems in costing and the ranking system for sub-project applications ranking. Of special note were
recommendations aimed at improving financial controls so as to avoid any suggestion of favoritism and to
ensure transparency.
Recommendations arising from missions were incorporated into a time-bound action plan providing
for corrective action to be taken by SFKC. The work of supervisory missions was supplemented by the
findings of four technical assessments on sub-project quality, adherence to procurement rules, and
supervision quality, and a beneficiary assessment to assess project impact and beneficiary satisfaction.
Bank's preparatory and supervisory activities enabled the SFKC, despite initial constraints and limited
technical capacity, to reach and sustain a high level of operational efficiency.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was highly satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower's performance was satisfactory, especially considering the difficult conditions in the
country which was recovering from two decades of war and near isolation from the international
community. A Project Preparation Unit was set up in July 1994 with a skeletal staff and borrowed
quarters. By the time of the first annual report in January 1996, the SFKC had 42 staff members, was
operating out of its own building and had firmly established itself institutionally to meet the requirements
for effectiveness and rapid operations.
Strong govemment support at the highest level was evidenced by the speed with which the
Government created SFKC and carried out preparation and appraisal activities. The Fund was established
by Royal Decree in December 1994 as a autonomous institution under the office of the co-Prime Ministers,
and with a Board of Directors drawn from the Government, private sector and non-govemmental
organizations.. The guarantee by the government of the institutional autonomy of the Fund and its freedom
from political interference was a key element in borrower's performance.
The project benefited from project preparation during which operational and administrative
procedures were developed. A trial implementation period allowed SFKC to test and improve these
procedures based on practical experience and lessons learned. In retrospect, the development of a clear and
transparent set of operational policies, procedures and work systems and instruments, and the strong
- 10 -



emphasis on ensuring technical quality was important in helping the institution to meet the pressure from
the government, and community at large, to deliver quick, equitable and efficient results.
While the Bank's TA played an important role in contributing to the transfer of technical and
management skills, it should not detract from the fact that SFKC was entirely a national-run operation.
Managed with only occasional expatriate TA, the project demonstrated that Cambodians are capable of
proficient project management and technical excellence.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performnance was satisfactory. At the policy making and executive
level, the Board of Directors which meets every six months has functioned effectively in approving policies,
procedures and the budget of SFKC. The Board, however, did not go beyond these functions and attempt
to improve SFKC policies or procedures, nor did they intervene to either politicize or undermine
management. While the Board played a role in approving and ratifying co-financed sub-projects entered
into with bilateral donors and other partners, a more active role has been delegated to the Executive
Commnittee, comprised of five members of the Board and the General Director, who meet at least every two
weeks to represent the Board in carrying out policies and approving applications for sub-project financing.
Where performance has been lacking has been the inability of the Board to foster substantive
interaction between SFKC with line ministries and local governments. Guidance and monitoring by the
Board of mechanisms and processes to coordinate with line ministries and local governments and to ensure
that sub-projects fell within local and sector development plans and, on completion, were included in the
line ministry's maintenance operations, would have increased efficiency and sustainability of sub-projects,
and reduced the burden placed on the SFKC.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency's performance was satisfactory. Made up of seven departments -
Finance and Administration, Promotions, Appraisal, Supervision, Legal (responsible for reviewing
procurement and contracting), the Management Information System and Executive Support Unit - a
restriction that was codified in the Royal Charter of SFKC - the organizational framework is designed to
provide administrative and operational autonomy for the SFKC to work outside the normal bureaucratic
structures and to quickly respond to the demands of communities. This organizational structure has
worked well above the national public sector norns. The SAR had estimated that SFKC would need about
40 professional and support staff at the height of its operations and also proposed holding administrative
costs to 8 % of total project costs. By and large, staff number has remained stable, with little turnover,
because of the Fund's ability to pay competitive salaries, well above the national norms. Administrative
costs have also been maintained throughout the project at the set limits.
Financial management standards of the SFKC have been confrmed by the assessment and
unqualified findings of annual audits conducted by the External Auditors, as well as by the audits of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, and those arising from Bank supervision missions. Challenges faced by
SFKC in its financial management have included new co-financing strategies, budget management options
and exchange rate issues.  In the first case, the development of satisfactory financial procedures
undoubtedly played a role in enabling the SFKC to successfully secure and manage substantial
co-financing from donors. Sharp exchange rate fluctuations during the mid-term review mission of the
Bank in September 1997 ( there was a devaluation of the riel to the dollar of nearly 40%) prompted the
- 11 -



SFKC to carry out an updated survey of unit prices. Since SFKC paid contractors in dollars and most
construction materials were and are today priced in dollars in local markets, there was little impact of the
devaluation on contractor profits. The SFKC was also able to successfully manage its budget through the
later stages of the project when the juxtaposition of the exhaustion of the credit resources, coupled with the
uncertainty of the timing of new financing required proactive strategies to ensure the continuation of
operations and support for staffing.
Other departments of the SFKC have also performed well. A computerized Management
Information System has enabled the various departments to track project costs and performance and
provided information to management, the Government and the Bank for monitoring and decision making.
TA and training was employed by SFKC in a number of areas to improve capacity. These have
included accounting and administration, sub-project supervision, appraisal criteria, unit cost data base, the
Management Information System and public information. The ability of the SFKC to self manage
increasingly complex operations is a good indication of the effectiveness of the TA selected and utilized.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Key lessons learnt were:
a) sustained efforts to ensure authentic community driven demand
One of the key challenges for the project has been to ensure that demand for sub-projects are
community rather than individual-driven or are motivated by outside parties with their own interests.
This has required promotional activities and an information system that can reach to beneficiaries at
the village level; it has also required activities aimed at ensuring that the demand is authentic and
reflects community needs and aspirations. Besides the SFKC's own screening procedures, partnerships
with community organizations and NGOs and a greater emphasis on strengthening the participatory
process are important to offset the dominance of power groups in decision making.
b) careful selection of scale and complexity of projects
Another set of challenges stemmed from the development of new sub-projects that are different
from the typically small projects financed by SFKC resources. Although a small minority, these larger
and technically complex projects in urban water supply, irrigation, health and sewerage that were
necessitated by the need to mobilize co-financing, required expertise in many new areas that have tested
the limits of the SFKC's capabilities. The problems with the Kratie and Kampong Chanang water
utility projects supported by SFKC resources indicate that it would have been advisable for the
organization to develop a higher level of technical and managerial skills, particularly in regard to
appraising applicant commitment to provide timely counterpart resources and maintenance costs, and
to be more selective in its choice of large projects. Special attention too should have been paid to cost
benefit analysis and poverty alleviation impacts before engaging in complex and costly ventures.
- 12 -



c) ensuring technical quality, timeliness and cost efficiency
Given the large number and wide dispersal of sub-projects in its portfolio, the project has had to
deal with problems of delay in project completion, and quality of completed work. Although field
checks of supervisory missions have found that most assets are of good quality and are being put to
good use, a small proportion of sub-projects were found to be affected by problems such as defects in
technical quality, shortcomings in design and delays in completion and hand-over.
To overcome these problems, SFKC has developed systems of preventive action aimed at ensuring
quality, timeliness and applicant satisfaction. Among these systems, that of site checks and close
monitoring of the quality of work of internal and external appraisal and supervisory staff has been
critical. Training and orientation programs for staff and contractors, revisions in the project operational
procedures, and the establishment of a black list to weed out bad contractors have also been found
necessary.
Notwithstanding the improvement of procedures and refinements to existing systems, close
supervision and monitoring by a motivated and committed staff are necessary to ensure adherence to
standards. In this regard, it would be useful for SFKC to implement a system of incentives and
disincentives tied to staff performance which would reward good and penalize sub-standard work done.
d) ensuring sustainability
In terms of lessons learnt, one of the most important has been the need to mobilize communities
effectively during the initiation and implementation of sub-project construction through to the
post-construction period to ensure sustainability. Although robust technical quality plays an important
role in the sustainability of assets created, the issue of adequate follow-up attention to maintenance of
assets is also critical. This issue was not an initial priority for SFKC because of the initial focus on
physical output and fast construction. Following the mid-term review, the project incorporated
sustainability concerns more strongly into its work.
Given the poverty status of most communities (SFKC-introduced criterion requiring a local
committee to be identified for the maintenance of the proposed infrastructure does not appear to have
been effective in many instances) and staffing constraints and limited resources, the role of local and
provincial authorities in supporting sub-projects needs to be substantially expanded if the sustainability
program is to have any possibility of success. A full review of this issue at appropriate high levels and
agreement on a realistic program defining responsibilities of the different parties involved (local
authorities, provincial authorities, local communities, NGOs and other donor groups, line agencies and
the SFKC itself) and their role in maintenance work, would comprise an essential first step in
protecting the assets created by SF I and SF II. Since adequate resources are critical to maintenance,
the topic of resource allocation should also be addressed in the review.
e) monitoring of SF I assets
A system of rapid evaluation of completed projects would assist in monitoring key issues of
technical quality, implementation efficiency, maintenance performance and utilization in the field. A
recent evaluation of a small sample of completed SF I sub projects by SFKC has provided useful
information on issues of quality, durability and use of assets of sub-projects from the viewpoint of
beneficiary communities, NGOs, line agencies and other stakeholders. It has also highlighted the
- 13-



importance of establishing a more comprehensive monitoring system to assess project impact,
especially for economic assets such as bridges, culverts and irrigation works. The monitoring system
would also provide feedback that can enable rapid follow up action to address emerging problems in
specific projects.
f) procurement and transparency
Although procurement abuses appear to have been controlled and largely prevented during SF I,
the continuation of direct contracting, as warned in the beneficiary assessment, was putting too much
power in the hands of contractors and opening opportunities for manipulation of the applicants. The
approach in SF I was to inform the applicants of their rights, and undertake regular technical
assessments to monitor procurement practices and to utilize contractor capacities to help develop well
prepared applications during a difficult period of national reconstruction. In hindsight, a more
demanding and competitive procurement procedure might have been workable in place of direct
contracting, and in fact, SF II has abandoned direct contracting altogether to enhance transparency.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
During the implementation of Phase-I of SFKC, a number of missions were deputed by the World
Bank to assist in fine-tuning the operations of the project by regularly monitoring ground realities in the
Kingdom and the progress being made. These missions provided valuable support to streamline the work
of each department and coordination between them and other agencies.
Throughout the implementation of Phase-I, independent researchers conducted four technical
assessments and one beneficiary assessment to monitor the progress being made and to provide guidance
for the better targeting of SFKC resources. These studies established that the SFKC was technically
competent in its operations, that projects targeted the poor and contributed to raising living standards, that
they by and large met the short to medium term requirements of communities, and were implemented
parallel to other development programmes in the area.
These assessments also established that SFKC during its Phase-I work met its objectives in
providing non-agriculture, pubic works to create wage labor for short-term support and developed the
capacity of local, small contractors. This approach has been seen to contribute to a sense of stability
within communities and therefore is instrumental in supporting the culture of peace in the country.
The number of projects successfully implemented by the SFKC since its inception in 1995 are
testimony to the competent management and clear objectives of the SFKC, guided by the past experiences
of the World Bank. The quality of life for numerous people, some of whom are the most vulnerable
sections of Cambodian society, has been greatly enhanced by the provision of schools for the education of
children, the rehabilitation of roads which provide access to markets and social services, the provision of
safe drinking water facilities which has such a bearing on the health of communities, the rehabilitation of
dykes and irrigation schemes and the provision of health centers, all serve to meet the immediate needs of
families and communities who are struggling to create a better life for themselves. In addition to the
provision of physical assets, the SFKC also functions as an informal social safety net, providing much
needed wage, employment where ordinarily there is none, while developing marketable skills within
communities which will generate income in the future. Less quantifiable but no less important is the
contribution that SFKC has made to the empowerment of civil society and the promotion of reconciliation
- 14 -



and a culture of peace in Cambodia.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not available.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not available.
10. Additional Information
Other Social Objectives:
Indigenous Peoples
The Bank's policy on Indigenous Peoples (IP) seeks to ensure that indigenous people benefit from
development projects. It also seeks to avoid or mitigate potentially adverse effects arising from project
activities. IPs comprise about 4% ( 444,699 in 1995) of the total population of the country with over 21
different groups. In view of the national scale of the project and because of the small population of IPs,
the project did not consider it necessary to put in place any special program for IPs; neither did the project
monitor investment allocations by ethno-linguistic group. The project also did not track the number of IP
communities that have submitted sub-project proposals because of the policy of strict impartiality in
resource allocation. According to the project data, the provinces of Ratanakiri, Mondolkiri, Stung Treng
and Kratie where many IP live together received 4.0% of total allocation.
Since the SF project design and objectives do not make any special provision for IPs, these
communities have not been beneficiaries of the project to a greater extent than other communities. Revision
of the targeting system to provide greater weight to poorer and less accessible areas could bring about more
benefits to communities of IP, generally considered to be among the poorest in the country.
Gender Concerns
The project has no special focus on women groups or sub-projects targeted at women. While SF I
has not sought to enhance or promote women's equitable participation in development, gender concems are
included in appraisal and priority criteria, and many sub-projects have targeted the concems of women.
Women have benefited directly from sub-projects as members of target communities or as recipients of
training, credit or services. The beneficiary assessment (1998) noted that benefits obtained by women
include increased access to markets, improved agricultural productivity, and increased access to
educational opportunities. SF I provided support to 13 sub-projects that directly benefited at least 460
women every year while 60 other sub-projects were estimated to provide a significant share of direct
support to women. Over 40 sub-projects provided direct benefits to female-headed families. In terms of
sectors, women have benefited most from water and education sub-projects. In most primary school
projects, a special emphasis was placed on higher enrollment of girl children. Beneficiary assessments and
stake-holder discussions confirm that water supply projects were enthusiastically supported by women.
Non-Governmental Organizations/Organizations of Civil Society
The active participation of NGOs in the project was envisaged during project inception with the
Staff Appraisal Report indicating specifically in the section on project components that financing for social
- 15-



services would be provided in subprojects directed to local communities and run by reliable NGOs (p. 1 1).
This was successfully accomplished. A total of 120 subprojects costing US$4.1 million was estimated to
have been sponsored by 27 international and national NGOs working with SFKC. Generally, SFKC
collaboration with civil society has enabled it to better target sub-projects in areas and sectors that would
have been difficult for the SFKC to access on its own. This partnership has also helped to increase the
sustainability of the assets created through greater community participation.
Successful International Organization (IO)/NGO partnership projects include the Kon Trei Rural
Roads Project in Banteay Meanchey province where SFKC worked in collaboration with World Food
Program (WFP), Norwegian People's Aid (NPA) and United Nations Development Program
(UNDP)/Cambodia Areas Regeneration and Rehabilitation (CARERE) to rehabilitate a formerly heavily
mined road. This sub-project was a useful model of inter-agency collaboration with the WFP providing
support through food for work, NPA and UNDP/CARERE providing financial support for civil works and
the SFKC contribution in the form of bridges and culverts. The rural road opened up former Khmer Rouge
controlled areas by linking them to the rest of the country and to markets/social services. A similar effort
with Partner for Development in Kampuchea (PADEK), a local NGO, in Svay Rieng province, resulted in
the rehabilitation of a 5 km road (through a food for work program implemented by the NGO) with the
project's contribution in the construction of bridges and culverts.  It is estimated that 1,200 families
benefited from the improved irrigation facilities and accessibility from the all- weather road.
On the negative side, the project's experience with NGOs mirrored that of Social Funds in other
parts of the world. Collaboration with NGOs often slowed down the implementation process as there were
differences in approaches to working at the community-level. Initially too, poor informnation flows between
SFKC and NGOs added to initial mistrust and resulted in a lack of interest in collaboration. Collaboration
was especially difficult in areas where NGOs had worked for a long period, had well-established
organizational structures at the local level, and perceived the entry of the SFKC as more a challenge than
an opportunity. Although field visits and regular dialogue helped to minimize rnistrust and uncertainties,
the presence of community organizations and structures in the villages (e.g., Village Development
Committees) has also helped in creating a favorable environment for institutional collaboration and
concrete partnerships.
On its part, SFKC could have made better use of the knowledge of NGOs to enhance sub-project
quality, impact and sustainability. A beneficiary assessment found that NGOs could have played a
potentially useful role in outreach activities, better targeting of especially needy districts, sub-project
identification, and in mobilizing community contributions.
Environment and Other Bank Safeguard Policies
No significant environmental risks were anticipated and the project was given an environmental
rating of category "B". SFKC's sub-project appraisal criteria include an environmental assessment and
provisions for halting work and studying impacts if the assessment revealed substantial environmental
impacts. Although this was not an issue as most SF I operations were small infrastructure-oriented,
potential problems such as the laboratory sink drain system of health clinics, and erosion damage arising
from dike rehabilitation and culvert and bridge construction, were identified in a technical assessment
conducted in 1997. With regard to the former, the system was subsequently redesigned to ensure proper
functioning and prevent health hazards arising from the discharge of chemicals and contaminated water,
while appraisal criteria and supervision standards were tightened to deal with the latter problem.
While the improvement of appraisal procedures for environmental assessment and early detection
- 16-



of environmental problem areas was undertaken, the nature of the vast majority of SFKC projects
contained inherently low risks of substantial environmental damage. In the four technical assessments and
beneficiary assessment, environmental issues did not emerge, with the exception of a poorly placed sink
drain for health centers, and in another case, a latrine placed too close to a health center. This relatively
benign performance on environmental issues thus did not warrant the appointment of a full time
environmental specialist at SFKC, nor a substantial tightening of environmental appraisal and supervision
procedures.  Technical design issues, however, on the few drainage and sewerage project that SFKC
undertook did merit closer attention, to avoid an early end to the usefulness of the assets (sustainability)
due to clogging and filling of drainage boxes and pipes. Erosion around sluice gates and spillways are a
normal feature of irrigation projects requiring regular maintenance.
Involuntary resettlement and other Bank safeguard issues were not relevant for the project.
- 17-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
*0In.di;.t,,atrlX                   Pr4j,d in listt PS                     A a/  ea k   st mt
APPROVALS AND DISBURSEMENTS
Amount of sub-projects approved ($)   17.05M
No. of sub-projects approved          1431
Total disbursements ($)               23.94M
IDA                                                                         18,426,257.52
Government of Cambodia               Not available                              90,239.39
Applicant/Sponsor Contribution ($)    Not available                          Not available
Sub-projects canceled or suspended    Not available                          322
APPROVALS AND DISBURSEMENTS            Not available                          Not available
Sub-project certification ($)
disbursed amount($)
IOPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY/Approval
process
Number of sub-project applications    Not available                          Not available
received (detail by applicant type)
Number of sub-projects appraised      Not available                          1,490
Number of sub-projects contracted     1000                                   1,439
average processing time (weeks)       Not available                          Not available
OPERATIONAL
EFFICIENCY/Implementation
Number of sub-projects in execution   160                                    1888
Number of sub-projects completed      Not available                          Not available
Average elapsed time (first disbursement to Not available                    Not available
completion)
IMPACT
Percentage of approved amount($) by   Not available                          Education 11,866,709.72
|sector                                                                        Health 1,165,354.67
Social Affairs Facilities 42,366.23
Water and Sanitation 1,817,123.63
Rural Road 1,491,319.62
Irrigation 333,155.25
Percentage of approved amount($) by   Not available
Province (analysis by province by urban
rural)
Number of direct beneficiaries(completed   Not available                     3,148,954
projects)
Number of person month employment     Not available                          1,049,185
generation (approved projects)
CONTRACTING
Values of contracts NCB               1 .50M                                 Not available
Value of local shopping               5.14M                                  Not available
Value of direct contracts             10.36M                                 Not available
Number of direct contractors          Not available                          Not available
Number of external supervisors        Not available                          Not available
Output Indicators: Not available.
- 18-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$)
Project Cost by Component       Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest   Percentage of Appraisal
Estimate
SKF Institutional Support
Fees and Salaries                       1107300.00             1001617.39           90.45
Vehicles and Equipment                   238200.00              201773.33            84.7
Operating Expenses                       454500.00              383625.88            84.4
Technical Assistance and Training        500000.00              216965.50            43.39
Sub-Project Financing                  18900000.00            16716029.12            88.44
Unallocated                             1000000.00
Total Project Costs                    22200000.00            18520011.22
Total Financing Required               22200000.00            18520011.22
Project Costs by Procurement Arran ements (A  praisal Es timate) (US$ million equivalent)
LCB    Local       Direct    Other                Total
Shopping  Contracts
SKF Institutional Support
Salaries and Fees                                         1.11               1.11
(1.11)             (1.11)
Vehicles and Equipment      0.13      0.11                                   0.24
(0.13)    (0.11)                                 (0.24)
Operating Costs                                          0.45                0.45
(0.36)             (0.36)
Technical Assistance and                                 0.50                0.50
Training                                                (0.50)               (0.50)
Sub-total Institutional     0.13     0.11                2.06                 2.3
Support                    (0.13)    (0.11)              (1.97)             (2.21)
Infrastructure Sub-projects  4.00     3.35      6.35     0.60                14.30
(3.60)    (3.01)    (5.52)    (0.52)            (12.65)
Services Sub-projects                                     1.10
(0.99)
Equipment Sub-projects                3.50                                   3.50
(3.15)                                 (3.15)
Sub-total Sub-projects      4.00      6.85      6.35     1.70                18.90
(3.60)    (6.16)    (5.52)    (1.51)            (16.79)
Unallocated                                                                  1.00
(1.00)
TOTAL PROJECT COST          4.13      6.96      6.35     3.76                22.20
.   (3.73)    (6.27)    (5.52)  3.48            (20.00)
19-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (USS)
LCB        Local Shopping   Direct Contracting                Total
Civil Works    261,188.00      7,490,961.00       11,015,024.00              18,767,173.00
Equipment                            371.00                                         371.00
[Total          261,188.00     7,491,332.00           11,015,024.00           18,767,544.00
No.        Item                                  Appmaisal                                Actual Costs
Project                                   (US$)
Costs
(US$)
Local        Foreign     Total         Local Cost      Foreign      Total
Cost         Cost                                      Cost
1.    Sub-Project
A.    Education          6,762,500    2,137,500   8,900,000    11,866,709.72                11,866,709.72
B.    Health             2,210,000    1,290,000   3,500,000     1,165,354.67                 1,165,354.67
C.  0 Social Affairs      415,000      235,000    650,000.00      42,366.23                    42,366.23
Facilities
D.    Water and          1,895,000    1,055,000   2,950,000     1,817,123.63                 1,817,123.63
Sanitation
E.    Rural Road          700,000     300,000     1,000,000     1,491,319.62                 1,491,319.62
F.    Irrgation           520,000     280,000       800,000      333,155.25                   333,155.25
G.    Service             880,000     220,000     1,100,000
Subtotal:        13,382,500    5,517,500    18,900,000   16,716,029.12               16,716,029.12
II.    SFKC
Administration
Component
A.    Operating Cost      375,350      79,150       454,500       383,625.88                  383,625.88
B.    Equipment            19,800     218,400       238,200       70,444.78    131,328.55     201,773.33
- 20 -



C.    Technical           350,000      150,000      500,000      208,270.50      8,695.00     216,965.50
assistance &
Training to
SFKC
D.    Salary             1,107,300                1,107,300     1,001,617.39                 1,001,617.39
Subtotal:         1,852,450     447,550     2,300,000    1,663,958.55    140,023.55   1,803,982.10
MII.    Strengthening
of Sponsoring
& Executing
Agencies
Total Project    15,234,950    5,965,050    1,200,000   18,379,987.67    140,023.55    18,520,011.22
Cost
-21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Available
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
7/1994                        4    1 Sr. Economist; I Operations
Officer; and 2 Consultants
(Environment and Engineer)
10/1994                       5    1 Sr. Economist; I Operations
Officer; I Financial
Management Specialist; 2
Consultants (Financial
Management/Accounting and
Engineer)
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/1995                        7   3 Economists; I Budget               HS                HS
Officer Disb.; I Legal
Counsel; and 2 Consultants
05/1995                       2    1 Sr. Economist; and I Senior       HS                HS
Prog. Officer
Supervision
11/1995                       3   1 Operations Officer; I Sr.          HS                HS
Economist; I YP Operations
Officer
02/1996                        3  1 Sr. Economist; I Operations        S                  S
Officer; and I Finance and
Admin.
07/1996                        3  1 Sr. Eonomist; I Sr. Prog. &         S                 S
Budget Officer; and I Consultan
02/1997                        2  1 Sr. Pro. & Budget Officer; and      S                 S
I Sr. Economist
09/1997                        1  1 Sr. Economist                      HS                HS
04/1998                        4   1 Sr. Economist; I Legal            HS                HS
Counsel; I Sociologist; and I
Consultant
02/1999                        7  1 Principal Operations Officer; I    HS                HS
Procurement Specialist; I Social
Fund Specialist; 1 Financial
Management Specialist; I
Sociologist; I Engineer; and I
Operations Officer
12/1999                       3  1 Principal Operations Officer; I     HS                HS
Engineer; I Sustainability
Specialist
ICR
02/2000                       2    1 Sr. Social Sector
Specialist; I YP
.  _________ -  (Sustainability)
- 23 -



(b) Staff
i    Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               30.7                       156.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                    37.0                       125.0
Supervision                              62.7                       294.2
ICR                                      N/A                         N/A
Total                                   130.4                       575.2
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H-=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
N Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
N Physical                                 *H   OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Institutional Development                0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
N Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                 O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
N Gender                            O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)            OH  OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
N Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OOther (Please specify)                    O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
NGO partnerships
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
O Lending                                             OHS OS  OfU  OHU
O Supervision                                         * HS OS   OU  OHU
O Overall                                             O HS OS O U O HU
62 Borrowerperformance                                Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  U  O HU
O  Government implementation performance              O HS O S   0  U  0 HU.
O Implementation agency performance                   O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Project Implementation Review Mission Report, March 1996.
2. Project Supervision Mission Reports.
3. Project Mid-term Review Mission Report, September 1997.
4. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report, April 2000.
5.  Sawa Cambodia, "Technical Assessment of 120 Projects of SFKC" July 1997.
6.  Social Fund Kingdom of Cambodia Annual Reports, various years.
7. Swift, Peter, "Beneficiary Assessment of the Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia", July 1998.
- 27 -



