Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2739 KH
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Fund Project)
between
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 10, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2739 KH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 10,1995, between KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA (the "Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS: (B) The Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms, wherever used in this Agreement, have the following 
meanings:
Page  2
(a)
"Administrative Manual" means the manual to be adopted by the SFKC 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, setting out the 
financial and administrative procedures for the day-to-day operation and 
administration of the SFKC;
(b)
"Applicant" means any local community group or local public or private 
entity who shall have applied to the SFKC for the financing and carrying out of a 
Sub-project, within any
province of the Borrower, and who shall have entered into a Sub-grant Agreement, and 
the term "Applicants" means, collectively, more than one Applicant;
(c)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower's or the SFKC's fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and 
ends on December
31 in each calendar year;
(d)
"Fund Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the SFKC, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
"NBC" means the National Bank of Cambodia, the Borrower's central bank;
 
(f)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization, and the term "NGOs" means, 
collectively, more than one NGO;
(g)
"Operational Manual" means the manual to be adopted by the SFKC pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, setting out the operational 
and administrative
procedures of the SFKC in respect of the preparation, appraisal, processing, approval, 
financing, implementation and supervision of Sub-projects;
(h)
"Riel" means the unit of currency of the Borrower; 
 
(i)
"Royal Decree" means the Borrower's Royal Decree No. RD/1294/20, dated 
December 29, 1994, establishing the SFKC, and the term Royal Decree includes the 
statutes of the SFKC in the form and substance attached thereto;
(j)
"SFKC" means the Social Fund for the Kingdom of Cambodia, established by 
the Royal Decree as a separate autonomous public institution with independent social 
legal status, and possessing full juridical personality as well as administrative, 
managerial, technical and financial autonomy under the Borrower's laws and 
regulations;
(k)
"Sponsor" means any legal entity or group of entities (such as public 
ministries, local governments, community groups or NGOs) eligible to sponsor an 
Applicant before the SFKC for
a Sub-project, under the Borrower's laws and regulations and pursuant to the 
provisions of this Agreement, and the term "Sponsors" means, collectively, more than 
one Sponsor;
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
"Sub-grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made out of the proceeds 
of the Credit by the SFKC under a Sub-grant Agreement, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 3.03 of this
Agreement, to finance the carrying out of the corresponding Sub-project, and the term 
"Sub-grants" means, collectively, more than one Sub-grant;
(n)
"Sub-grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
SFKC, Applicant, Sponsor and Sub-project Implementing Agency, as the case may be, in 
respect of a Sub-project to be financed by a Sub-grant;
(o)
"Sub-project" means any sub-project eligible for financing by the 
proceeds of the Credit through the SFKC, in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement; and
(p)
"Sub-project Implementing Agency" means a duly qualified legal entity 
responsible for implementing a Sub-Project, and the term "Sub-project Implementing 
Agencies" means, collectively, more than one Sub-project Implementing Agency.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
13,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the NBC on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to Paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:
 
(i)
at such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
 
(ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and
(iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each Fiscal Year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to Paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1
commencing on December 1, 2005, and ending June 1, 2035. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on June 1, 2015, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:
 
(i)
the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as determined by 
the Association, shall have exceeded seven hundred ninety dollars 
($790) in constant 1985 dollars for five (5) consecutive years; 
and
Page  4
(ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under Paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice 
the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so 
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such 
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in 
the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided 
that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to Paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in Paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
the SFKC to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, economic, financial, managerial and environmental 
practices, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds (including foreign exchange), facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable the SFKC to carry out the Project, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the 
carrying out
of the Project by the SFKC.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make the entire proceeds of the Credit 
available, on a non-reimbursable grant basis, to the SFKC pursuant to a Fund Agreement 
to be entered into between the Borrower and the SFKC, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Association and which shall include, inter alia, the 
terms and conditions set forth in Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Fund Agreement in such a 
manner so as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and the objectives of the SFKC, and, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive the Fund Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) In respect of each Sub-project, the Borrower shall cause the 
SFKC to enter into a Sub-grant Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association, including those set forth in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
providing for the transfer, on a grant
basis, of part of the proceeds of Credit allocated to the corresponding Sub-project, 
and the obligation of the parties thereto to carry out their respective obligations 
and exercise their respective rights for implementing the corresponding Sub-project 
and achieving its objectives.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the SFKC to exercise its rights under each 
Sub-grant Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the 
SFKC and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and the 
objectives of the Project, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall cause the SFKC not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-grant 
Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the SFKC to:
(a)
Carry out and otherwise coordinate and supervise the overall 
Page  5
implementation of the Project; 
(b)
Submit to both the Borrower and the Association a monthly progress report 
on the implementation of the Project, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request;
(c)
Organize and carry out joint annual review meetings with the Borrower and 
the Association, and prepare an annual progress report on the implementation of the 
Project, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, to be reviewed 
at these meetings. As part of each said review, the SFKC shall prepare a program of 
action, satisfactory to the Association, to remedy any deficiencies in Project 
implementation identified during such  review; and
(d)
Promptly after each such review, take all necessary action required for 
the implementation of the program of action referred to in Paragraph (c) of this 
Section.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the SFKC to: 
(a)
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it and the Borrower 
to monitor and evaluate, on an on-going basis in accordance with performance 
indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than September 30, 1997, a mid-term Project 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to Paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report, and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the  Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
Review with the Borrower and the Association, not later than December 31, 
1997, or such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
Paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the Association's 
views on the matter.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
Prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
Afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
Thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project, and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices: (i) the operations, resources and expenditures of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project, or any part 
thereof; and (ii) the operations and financial condition of the SFKC.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in Paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four (4) months after the end of each such Fiscal 
Year: (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such 
year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof as 
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
the SFKC to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with Paragraph(a) of this Section, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in Paragraph (b) of this Section, and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The Borrower or the SFKC shall have failed to perform any of their 
respective obligations under the Fund Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Borrower or the
SFKC will be able to perform any of their respective obligations under either this 
Agreement or the Fund Agreement.
(c)
Any of the following shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower or the SFKC to implement the Project in accordance with this Agreement: (i) 
the Royal Decree; (ii) the Fund Agreement; (iii) the Operational Manual; and (iv) the 
Administrative Manual.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the SFKC, or for the suspension 
of any of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Any event specified in Paragraphs(a), (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Page  7
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
The event specified in Paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
The Fund Agreement shall have been signed between the Borrower and the 
SFKC and shall have entered into effect, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement.
(b)
The Operational Manual and the Administrative Manual shall have been duly 
adopted by the SFKC and shall have entered into effect, pursuant to the provisions of 
Paragraph A (3) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The management information system referred to in Paragraph A (5) (b) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement shall have been established by the SFKC, satisfactory to 
the Association, and shall have become fully operational.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association; namely, that the Fund Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the SFKC, and is otherwise 
legally binding on the Borrower and the SFKC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III, IV and V of 
this Agreement shall cease on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate, or on 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is hereby 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
92nd. Street, Sangkat Wat Phnom
Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT).
Page  8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Phnom Penh,
Kingdom of Cambodia, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Keat Chhon
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christopher Chamberlain
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated        % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
1. Sub-grants                   11,249,000      100% of amounts
                                                disbursed by the
                                                SFKC
2. Consultants' services           335,000      100%
   (local and international)
   and training under Part
   B of the Project
3. Goods (including                160,000      100% of foreign
   vehicles) under Part                         expenditures
   B (1) of the Project                         100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 90% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
4. SFKC operational costs
   (a) Operation and               244,000      80%
       maintenance
   (b) Salaries                    742,000      100%
5. Unallocated                     670,000
    TOTAL                       13,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
Page  9
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
The term "SFKC operational costs" means payments made for expenditures on 
account of SFKC staff salaries and official travel, as well as on account of the 
operation and maintenance of SFKC utilities, vehicles, buildings and office equipment 
under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 1 hereinabove, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 700,000), may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures under Category (1) in respect of Part A 
of the Project, before that date but after March 1, 1995.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) civil 
works not exceeding the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000); (b) 
goods not exceeding the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000); (c) consulting 
firms not exceeding the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000); (d) 
individual consultants not exceeding the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars 
($50,000); and (e) all training and incremental operational costs; all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
1.
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in its efforts to 
alleviate poverty within its territory by inter alia: (a) financing small-scale social 
and economic infrastructure activities, and other socially productive endeavors; (b) 
creating short term employment opportunities; (c) expanding opportunities for local 
communities to identify local development needs; and (d) developing appropriate 
infrastructural design costing and investment criteria.
2.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Sub-projects
 
Financing of Sub-projects for purposes of carrying out small-scale projects for 
rehabilitating social and economic infrastructure, and for other socially productive 
activities
within the territory of the Borrower.
Part B:
Institutional Support to SFKC and NGOs
 
(1)
Supporting the SFKC to strengthen its overall administrative, managerial and 
operational capacities, as well as its ability to coordinate and monitor the overall 
implementation of the Project.
(2)
Strengthening the capacity of the SFKC to, inter alia: (i) process, appraise, 
finance and supervise the implementation of Sub-projects; and (ii) carry out 
Beneficiary, Sponsor and Sub-project Implementing Agencies assessments, financial 
planning and management, procurement, disbursements and promotional activities through 
the provision of consultants' services.
(3)
Strengthening the capacity of the SFKC to assess and evaluate the feasibility of 
future potential revolving fund micro-enterprise programs of selected NGOs through the 
provision of consultants' services.
*  *  *  *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  10
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the  "Guidelines"), and in accordance with the following 
additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
Paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.  The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension.  
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.  With respect to each contract made subject to the Association's prior 
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1(a) of this Section, the 
Association's prior approval
will be required for:
(i)
a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of 
extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and
(ii)
any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
 
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A. hereof, goods manufactured within the territory of the Borrower may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of Paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and Paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local Competitive Bidding:
 
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars 
($250,000) but more than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per 
contract, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) but more than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Local Shopping:
 
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) per contract but more than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars 
($50,000), up to and aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of three million 
fifteen thousand dollars ($3,015,000), and goods estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) per contract, up to and aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of three million one hundred fifty thousand 
dollars ($3,150,000), may be procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three (3) suppliers or contractors eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Direct Contracting:
 
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than fifty thousand dollars 
($50,000) per Sub-project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
five million five hundred fifteen thousand dollars ($5,515,000), may be awarded after 
Page  11
direct negotiations with contractors, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), and each contract for goods 
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), the 
procedures set forth in Paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two (2) conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding Paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in Paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said Paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding Sub-paragraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for purposes of 
Paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower and the SFKC in carrying out the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, 
the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of 
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the 
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand 
dollars ($100,000) per contract, or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) per 
contract. However, this exception to prior Association review shall not apply to: (i)
the terms of reference for such contracts; (ii) single-source selection of consulting 
firms; (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Association; (iv) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) or above; or (v) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract value to the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000) or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  12
(b)
The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to two 
million dollars ($2,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in 
the Special Account pursuant to Paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, 
that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000) until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of two 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to Paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
If, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
Page  13
(d)
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible  Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to Paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association:
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. 
Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as 
the case may be.
 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the 
Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to Paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of the Fund and Sub-grant Agreements
A.
Terms and Conditions of the Fund Agreement
 
The Fund Agreement shall be valid for a period of at least five (5) years, and 
shall include, inter alia, the following terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association:
1.
The obligation of the Borrower to transfer the proceeds of the Credit, required 
for the implementation of the Project, to the SFKC on a non-reimbursable grant basis, 
and to otherwise take all action necessary to permit the SFKC to carry out the Project 
and ensure the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
The obligation of the Borrower to ensure that its ministries and departments 
responsible for reviewing and approving the Sub-projects shall provide their 
no-objection or explanation for objection, as the case may be, in respect of said 
Sub-projects within five (5) working days of receipt of the necessary documentation 
from the SFKC.
3.
The obligation of the SFKC to at all times carry out its operations in 
accordance with the following manuals, which manuals at all times shall be in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association, namely: (a) an Operational Manual which (i) 
sets out the operational procedures of the SFKC, including Sub-project eligibility, 
Page  14
financing and appraisal criteria, as well as performance indicators, procurement, 
disbursement and supervision procedures, (ii) ensures that no single Sub-grant shall 
exceed the amount of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars equivalent ($250,000), and 
(iii) requires that all Sub-projects estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred 
thousand dollars ($100,000), or more, shall be subject to the prior written approval 
of the Association; and (b) an Administrative Manual which sets out the financial and 
administrative procedures of the SFKC, including its accounting, financial and 
auditing procedures.
4.
The obligation of the SFKC to carry out the Project in accordance with this 
Agreement, the Fund Agreement, the Operational Manual and the Administrative Manual, 
and to at all times ensure that only Sub-projects that comply with the Fund Agreement 
and said manuals will be financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
5.
The obligation of the SFKC to:
 
(a)
Comply with the record keeping, accounting, auditing and reporting 
requirements set forth in Article IV of this Agreement; and
(b)
Establish and maintain, for the duration of the Project, a management 
information system capable of generating detailed reports regarding, inter alia, 
Sub-project implementation and impact data, including a unit cost data base for 
Sub-project appraisal and financing.
6.
The obligation of the SFKC to comply with the provisions for the procurement of 
goods, works and consultants' services referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
7.
The obligation of the SFKC to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, economic, engineering, financial, managerial and 
environmental practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced managerial 
personnel assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and the SFKC's undertaking 
that all staff appointments and replacements, at the department head level or above, 
shall be subject to the prior written approval of the Association.
8.
The obligation of the SFKC to promptly inform the Borrower and the Association 
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the implementation of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
9.
The obligation of the SFKC to, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, and the SFKC's performance of its obligations under the Fund 
Agreement.
10.
The obligation of the SFKC to:
 
(a)
Prepare and submit work programs, budgets and reports and fully cooperate 
and participate in the Project annual reviews and mid-term review, in accordance with 
the provisions
of Sections 3.04 (c) and 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
Provide all relevant information required for the proper monitoring and  
evaluation of the Project; and
(c)
Promptly implement the work program referred to in said Section 3.04 (c).
 
11.
The obligation of the SFKC to ensure that each Sub-project is carried out in its 
entirety on public land, and that at all times the ownership of the goods, works and 
services under each Sub-project shall remain in the public domain or otherwise revert 
to the Borrower.
12.
The obligation of the SFKC to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate business practices.
13.
The mutual obligation of the Borrower and the SFKC to: (a) ensure that each 
Sub-project appraised includes a detailed analysis of any potential adverse 
environmental effects and/or resettlement of persons arising from the implementation 
of said Sub-project; (b) that in the event of the existence of any such effects and/or 
resettlement, such Sub-project shall include an environmental action plan and/or a 
resettlement action plan therefor, as the case may be, which shall be carried out in a 
manner acceptable to the Association and monitored on a regular basis by both the 
Borrower and the SFKC; (c) take all measures necessary to ensure that all persons 
Page  15
whose livelihood is affected as a result any such effects and/or resettlement shall be 
rehabilitated and compensated in a manner acceptable to the Association and designed 
to further improve the living standards of those persons; and (d) at all times 
maintain operational procedures fully adequate to enable both the Borrower and the 
SFKC to monitor and evaluate, on a regular basis and based on indicators acceptable to 
the Association, the prompt carrying out of each of the foregoing.
14.
The obligation of the SFKC to promptly refund to the Borrower any proceeds from 
the Credit not used for purposes of carrying out the Project or for achieving the 
objectives thereof, or otherwise utilized in a manner which does not comply with the 
provisions of this Agreement.
15.
A provision stipulating that:
 
(a)
The prior written approval of the Association shall be required for any 
revisions to the Fund Agreement, the Operational Manual, or the Administrative Manual 
that relates to any change in: (i) Sub-project types or eligibility criteria; (ii) 
Sub-project cost limits; (iii) maximum contract amounts that can be awarded to any 
single Sub-project Implementing Agency through direct contracting procedures; (iv) the 
deadlines set for the submission of the Borrower's comments
on any proposed Sub-project; or (v) the threshold for prior review of Sub-projects by 
the Association; and
(b)
In case of conflict between any of the provisions contained in the Fund 
Agreement, the Operational Manual or the Administrative Manual and those set forth in 
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall at all times prevail.
B.
Terms and Conditions of the Sub-grant Agreement
 
Each Sub-grant Agreement shall include, inter alia, the following terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association:
1.
Each Applicant, Sponsor and Sub-project Implementing Agency shall be required to 
carry out and operate their corresponding Sub-project(s) with due diligence and 
efficiency, and in accordance with sound administrative, economic, engineering, 
financial, managerial and environmental standards
and practices.
2.
Each Applicant, Sponsor and Sub-project Implementing Agency shall have the 
obligation to ensure at all times that: (a) the goods, works and consultants' services 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (b) such goods, works and 
consultants' services shall be used exclusively for implementing Sub-projects and 
achieving the objectives of the Project.
3.
The corresponding Sub-project shall be carried out entirely on public land, and 
at all times the ownership of the goods, works and services thereunder shall remain in 
the Borrower's public domain or otherwise revert to the Borrower.
4.
The SFKC shall have the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with 
representatives of the Association and/or the Borrower, if the Association shall so 
request, the goods, works and services included in the Sub-project, the operation 
thereof and any relevant records and documents and obtain any report in connection 
therewith, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request.
5.
Each Applicant, Sponsor and Sub-project Implementing Agency shall take out and 
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other satisfactory provision for, 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate business practices.
6.
The SFKC shall have the right to obtain all such information as the Association 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing, and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of each Applicant, Sponsor and Sub-project 
Implementing Agency, and to the benefits
derived from the Sub-projects.
7.
The right of any Applicant, Sponsor and Sub-project Implementing Agency to the 
use of the proceeds of the Credit, or any part thereof, shall be promptly suspended 
upon failure by such Applicant, Sponsor or Sub-project Implementing Agency to perform 
any of its respective obligations under the Sub-grant Agreement.
Page  16
*  *  *  *  *  *
