Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqpot No. 8992
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1306-LBR)
SEPTEMBER 7, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a rercted distbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNIT
Currency Unit = Liberian dollar
US$1.00 = 1.00 Liberian dollar
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       =    African Development Bank
AITB           Agricultural and Industrial Training Bureau
CBDTC     =    Commercial, Business and Domestic Training Centre
DEF       =    Division of Educational Facilities
GOL       =    Government of Liberia
IEL       =    Improved Efficiency in Learning (project financed by USAID)
IDA       =    International Development Association
ISDS           Information Systems and Data Services
KRTTI          Kakata Rural Teacher Training Institute
MOE       =    Ministry of Education
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
MVTC      =    Monrovia Vocational Training Centre
MYS       =    Ministry of Youth and Sport
NCVTET    =    National Council for Vocational and Technical Education and
Training
PCR       =    Project Completion Report
PIC       =    Project Implementation Council
PIU       =    Project Implementation Unit
REC       =    Regional Education Centre
SAR       =    Staff Appraisal Report
TBU       =    Textbook Unit
UOL       =    University of Liberia
WAEC      =    West African Examinations Council
ZRTTI     =    Zorzor Rural Teacher Training Institute
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



THE WORLD SANK                 FOR OFCIAL US ONLY
Washington. DC 20433
U.S A
Offoce of Diem t(.Cener
opwatumn IVAtuano
September 7, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Republic of Liberia
Fourth Education Proiect (Credit 1306-LBR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Republic of Liberia: Fourth Education Project
(Credit 1306-LBX)", prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of
this project hm_ _      ade by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a restncted distnbution and may be used by rcipients only in the perfonuance
of their official dutieL Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wthout Wodd Dbak authoioQn.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1306-_BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pase No.
Preface ....                   . o ........*..................            i
Evaluation Sumxary ......                                               iii
PART I.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .............           1
I.  Project Identity  .................................           I
II.  Background .......... O.. * .*.... .      .. .. .....         1
Principal Issues in Education .......1
General Strategies for the Sector                            2
III.  Project Objectives and Description          ...               2
IV.  Project Design and Preparation ...............               5
V.  Project Implementation ............................           6
VI.  Project Documentation and Data             ........           9
VII.  Project Results  .......... .... ... ...                      9
Institutional Strengthening .......................         10
Upgrading the Quality of Primary Education ........         11
VIII.  Technical Assistance                     ......              12
:X.  Project Sustainability                                       13
X.  IDA Performance and Lessons of Experience .........          13
XI.  Borrower's Performance and Lessons Learned ........          14
PART II.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........          17
PART III.   BASIC DATA (Annexes 1-15)                                    19
1.  Liberia-IDA Assisted Education Projects ......21
2.  Organizational Structure for Project Implementation         22
3. Level of Staff Continuity in PIU                             23
4.  Project Sites and School Building by County........         24
5.  Textbook Procurement and Distribution...***..*.*            25
6.  Schedule of Disbursements.....o...                          26
7.  Status of Covenants.......s                                 27
8.  Implementation Schedule ............................        28
9.  Agreed and Actual Project Outcomes**..*.*.**.*...**         29
10. Project Costs and Financing                                  30
11.  Division of Information Systems & Data Services....         32
12.  Enrollment in Project   oo .        .      .l.              34
13. Technical Assistance                                         35
14.  Project Timetable..................................         37
15.  Supervision Missions .........  .. .9..*...         9       38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1306-LBR)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews implementation
of the Fourth Education Project in the Republic of Liberia for which
Credit 1306-LBR in the amount of US$13.5 million was approved on
December 7, 1982. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1988, six months
behind schedule. The Credit amount disbursed was US$10.3 million, and
US$3.2 million was cancelled. The last disbursement was on September
22, 1988.
Parts I and III of this PCR were jointly prepared by UNESCO
and the Population and Human Resources Operations Division of the
Africa Region (AF4PH).   It is based on a review of documents,
correspondence, internal memoranda, and interviews with relevant
persons in Liberia and the Bank.
The Borrower was requested in September 1989 to provide a
Review from the Borrower's Perspective (Part II), but none was
received.   This PCR has been read by the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED).



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1306-LBR)
EVALUATION SUMHARY
Obiectives
The project objective was to assist in strengthening the
administration of education, improving the quality and efficiency of primary
education, expanding access to primary education and making key parts of the
publicly supported skill training network fully operational. To achieve this
objective the project included: an institutional development program for the
MOE and the West African Examinations Council; the procurement and sale of
about 1.9 million low-cost textbooks to primary school students; the upgrading
of about 2,250 primary school teachers and strengthening of the university
department of education; the strengthening of the educational inspectorate and
the construction of three regional education centers; the establishment of
6,624 primary school places; the furnishing and equipping of 180 existing
primary school classrooms; the strengthening of the AITB and VTC; and the
consolidation of three existing training centers into a new 215 place
commercial training center (paras. 8 - 9).
Implementation Experience
The credit was approved on December 7, 1982, signed on December 10,
1982, and declared effective on March 3, 1983; the closing date originally
scheduled for December 31, 1988, was postponed to June 30, 1989 because of
delays in implementation. Among the factors that seriously hampered the
project implementation schedule were: (i) uncertainty and confusion between
the PIU and high level officials at MOE; (ii) staff changes within PIU; (iii)
minimum PIU control of funds and resources distributed to various departments;
and (iv) separation of DEF from PIU during the project implementation. The
Bank decided to close the loan and cancelled the undisbursed balance of US$3.2
million, after an assessment found no potential for successful execution and
worsening country economic condition and GOL inability to meet debt payments
(para 25).
To expedite project implementation a provision of US$0.5 million
was facilitated by IDA to GOL to undertake pre-project activities (consulting
services, procurement of equipment and vehicles, architectural design,
preparation of bid documents, etc.). An amendment to the Credit Agreement was
made in 1986 at the request of GOL. The CBDTC component was deleted, thus
releasing US$2.5 million of the Credit proceeds to: (i) increase IDA
financing of fellowships from 90 percent of expenditures to 100 percent; (ii)
increase the number of teachers to be trained under the project from 35
percent to 50 percent of the untrained teachers in primary schools; and
(iii) meet the shortfall of Credit proceeds due to the declining value of the



- iv -
SDR against the dollar (at Credit signature SDR 12.6 million was equivalent to
US$13.5 million; in 1985 it was equivalent to US$12.2 million. para 25).
IDA project disbursements were suspended in 1985 due to the
inability of GOL to meet its financing obligations. Project implementation
activities ceased 30 months before the scheduled completion date (December
1988). The program for upgrading teachers was stopped. The fellowship
program was excluded from the freeze, however, and it was scheduled for
funding through to June 1989. Among the changes made after the freeze of
disbursements were: (i) 50 percent reduction on the price of textbooks; (ii)
integrating USAID funded IEL primary education program with MOE textbook and
in-service teacher training program; and (iii) distributing the teachers'
guide free of cost to teachers (para 26).
Results
Despite the premature termination, many project objectives were
achieved due to the extensive project preparation and the effort of PIU staff.
Although it is too early to assess the full impact of the project with respect
to its quality and efficiency of primary education, there are some promising
positive indicators. The project was successful in providing: (i) textbook
re-use market that was developed in Monrovia and benefited urban children; MOE
delivered 50,400 copies of books free of cost to be kept and utilized in
schools; (ii) upgrading of 1,200 untrained teachers from the in-service
teacher upgrading program; (iii) establishment of regional offices as part of
MOE's effort to decentralize its educational management and supervision; (iv)
9,600 primary school places, 3,600 more than was envisaged at appraisal; (v)
better utilization of building for primary and secondary education (paras. 35
- 38).
The project also was crncial in the inistitutional strengthening of
the MOE by establishing an Information Service and D)ata System Unit (ISDS).
This unit has helped in the establishment of educational data and assisted the
Ministry of Finance in determining data to be computerized and the textbook
unit to establish a computerized inventory system. Through the project the
Liberian branch of WAEC has been strengthened by training of its staff and
acquisition of new printing equipment (paras. 32 - 34).
The technical assistance component was satisfactorily implemented.
The experts at AITB were helpful in developing the administrative framework
for coordinating skills and establishing a job analysis system appropriate for
Liberia. To ensure that the public and private sectors benefited from the
training programs, participants for the workshops were drawn from government
offices and private sector companies. The poor impact of the services
provided by the experts in regard to education planning and administration in
MOE was attributed to undefined terms of reference, frequent transfer of
Liberian staff and non-appointment of counterpart staff. The fellowship
program provided training for 69 fellows and 61 returned to jobs in their
specialization (paras. 39 - 40).



-v -
Sustainabilitv
The key to the sustainability of this project rests with the
Government'o ability and commitment to provide adequate recurrent financial
resources in the future and to reach clear policy decilsions to sustain
training programs and textbook provision. At this stage the project is not
fully sustainable. The institutional capacity built up as a result of the
project is sufficient to sustain some of the project benefits, but there
remains a need to strengthen planning and management at MOE.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
'he Bank Group's performance was fairly good during the early
stages of tie project cycle including appraisal. Project supervision by IDA
was good up to the suspension of disbursements. Supervision teams were able
to agree with GOL on chan&es required to facilitate the smooth implementation
of the project (para 43). Some of the major lessons that can be learned from
this project are:
(i)     Arrangements for textbook distribution and cost recovery
need to be based on realistic assessments of the capacity
of pupils to pay for books (para 44).
(ii)     The overall economiclfinancial conditions and prospects
in the country require more rigorous and thorough
analysis as a basis for determining whether the project
is financially feasible (para 44).
(iii)     Effective decentralization of education depends, among
other things, on the extent to which regional centers are
given a clear mandate, adequate staff and operating
budget for traasport (para 44).
*iv)     Need for a close monitoring of the use of the special
project account, especially in cases of extraordinary
shortage of funds available for non-project purposes
(para 46).
(v)     Sustained changes in educational management and
administration require: constant reviews to identify
areas of weakness, recommendations for improvement,
planned sequence of necessary changes and arrangements
that encourage job retention among local staff (para 46).
(vi)     This project joins the long list of projects that
encountered delays in their implementation schedule due
to lack of adequate counterpart funding. Since it is so
difficult to anticipate periods in the life of the
project when financial constraints might become so severe
as to paralyze it, there is wisdom in the Bank's policy
of using the given region's profile for determining the
implementation schedule (paras. 43 - 44).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1306-LER)
PART I - Proiect Review from Bank's Perspective
I.   Project Identity
Project Name   -    Fourth Education Project
Credit Number  -    1306 LBR
Country        -    Liberia
Sector         -    Education
II. Background
1.        In 1982 when the project was appraised. the government
objectives for the education sector were tos (a) improve the quality of
education at primary and secondary levels, (b) upgrade and expand
vocational and technical education to meet the demand for skilled manpower,
(c) strengthen educational planning and administration, and (d) increase
access to primary education.
2.        Principal Issues in Education.  There was remarlkable improvement
in the education system between 1968 and 1980: (a) enrollment in pre-
primary and primary schools increased from 120,000 to 228,000 and in lower
and upper secondary schools from 13,000 to 52, 000, (b) the annual primary
trained teacher output was tripled, and (c) training programs were
established for lower and middle level personnel in agriculture and other
technical and vocational areas. Despite these achievements Liberia was a
long way from meeting the needs for literate and skilled manpower.
3.        The areas uf concern identified in the Education and Training
Review Memorandum (1979), prepared by Bank staff, and the subsequent Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) included the high rate (70 percent) of illiteracy
and the poor quality of education which kept productivity and rural incomes
low. Occupations requiring comuercial and business skills and industrial
crafts such as carpentry, masonry and plumbing were seriously affected.
The output of the education system was insufficient to meet the need for
trained persons in a range of professional fields.
4.        The main problem facing the Government of Liberia (GOL),
therefore, was to expand access to education and simultaneously improve
quality in the face of contracting financial resources. Because of three
previous Bank Group assisted projects, GOL had been able to establish and
strengthen the planning units in the Ministry of Education (MOE), the
University and the Manpower section of the Ministry of Finance and Planning
(Annex 1). In order to ensure adequate coordination of skills training
programs, GOL, with the assistance of IDA, established in 1982 an
Agricultural and Industrial Training Bureau (AITB) with responsibility for
setting trade standards, developing training programs and certification.
Further improvements were needed in many areas. According to the SAR,



_ 2 -
there was no systematic way of collecting and analyzing education data and
therefore educational planners were generally uninformed of the
requirements of the system. There were also weaknesses in the general
administration, accounting and personnel administration which frustrated
the achievement of educational goals.
5.        At primary level. the average gross enrollment ratio was about
52 percent and ranged from 30 percent in some rural areas to 60 percent in
some urban areas. Although the education system was open to boys and girls
alike, the enrollment of girls had been disproportionately low -- less than
40 percent of total enrollment at the primary level and about 30 percent at
the secondary level. High dropout rates, the inadequate supply of
textbooks and other teachingllearning materials and equipment such as chalk
and chalkboards. characterized both primary and secondary levels.  Remedial
programs were inadequate and most children left school without acquiring
basic literacy.
6.        The insufficiency of trained teachers waS a major contributor to
the unsatisfactory quality of education. Of the 30 percent of all primary
school teachers who had received pedagogical training, about one-half was
teaching in onmrovia. the capital city. Education supervision was
inadequate and was further impeded by the lack of vehicles for field visits
and of adequate office space for education officers in the various regions.
7.        General Strategies for the Sector.  In the National Education
Plan (1978-1990) the Government proposed to improve the quality of
education and training programs by upgrading teachers. improving the supply
of educational materials and strengthening the management of education
programs. In response to the demand for middle level manpower. GOL
expected to: (a) expand enrollment in certain key areas such as science
and technology, (b) facilitate full operation of newly established
institutions for industrial training, and (c) consolidate publicly
supported training. Access to primary education was expected to be
increased through a government school construction program. Private groups
were also encouraged to construct school buildings. The objective was to
maintain an annual primary school enrollment growth rate of about five
percent and slow down the growth rate of secondary school enrollment. In
addition. GOL expected to strengthen the inspectorate and the school
examinations system. Bank staff conducted extensive sector work and
dialogue with the Government on a possible Fourth Education Project. This
project was identified in 1979, prepared with the help of Bsank staff and
consultants in 1980 and appraised in 1982. The Credit Agreemnat was signed
on 10 December, 1982.
III. Project Obiectives and Description
8.        The general objective of the project was to consolidate the
outcomes of the three previous Bank Group assisted education projects to:
(a) strengthen the administration of education. (b) improve the quality and
efficiency of primary education. (c) expand access to primary education.
and (d) make the skills training program fully operational.



- 3 -
9.        Specifically, the project comprised the objectives and content
indicated in the following tables
Table 1
Project Objectives and Components
Objectives                                    Components
To strengthen education planning          Provision of (a) office equipment,
and administration and preparation        vehicles, (b) 10.5 staffyears of
of future projects.                       expert assistance, and (c) 24
staffyears of fellowships.
To strengthen the Liberian branch         Provision of (a) 2.5 staffyears of
of the Vest African Examination           expert assistance, (b) eight
Council (WAEC).                           staffyears of fellowships and (c)
vehicles and equipment.
To improve primary education.             Establishment of a national text
book program for primary grades by
(a) procuring pupils' books and
teachers' guides and transporting
them to sales agents and (b) by
providing: (i) office equipment,
furniture and materials, (ii)
three staffyears of expert
assistance and (iii) six
staffyears of fellowships.
To upgrade untrained primary              In-service training of about 2,250
school teachers.                          primary school teachers.
Strengthening of the Department of
Education, University of Liberia,
by ppoviding one staffyear of
expert assistance and 26
staffyears of fellowships.
To strengthen the inspectorate and        Construction of, furnishing and
improve school supervision.               equipping three regional
educational centers.
Provision of (a) one staffyear of
expert assistance, (b) 16 staff-
years of fellowships and (c)
equipment.
To provide access to primary              Construction, furnishing and
education.                                equipping of 24 rural primary
schools.



Furnishing and equipping of 30
existing schools.
To allow for full operation of            Provision for (a) minor civil
skills training facilities which         works, (b) 3.5 staffyears of
were provided under the Third             expert assistance, 'c) two staff-
Education ProJect.                        years of fellowships, and (d)
consumables, for the Monrovia
Vocational Training College
(MVTC).
Providing for AITB: (a) three
staffyears of expert assistance,
(b) office equipment and
materials, and tc) technical
books.
To upgrade clerical business and          Constructing, furnishing and
domestic training.                        equipping a 215-place Clerical
Business and Domestic Training
Center in Monrovia. Providing (a)
5.5 staffyears of expert service
and (b) five staffyears of
fellowships.
10.       The Project was intended to provide low-cost textbooks
appropriate to the curriculum. Suitable textbooks were to be selected by a
textbook committee set up by MOE. Books for particular subjects were to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding and all books
were to be sold, at a price set by MOE, through commercial agents in all
counties in Liberia. It was expected that the program would be self
financing ultimately, and that the textbook supply would be replenished
annually from the income from sales.
11.       In-service teacher upgrading was to be conducted under a
contractual arrangement between HOE on the one hand and the University of
Liberia and the Cuttington University College on the other hand. The
teacher training courses were to be offered for two months each year during
the school vacation. Board and lodging were to be provided free of cost to
all participants and each of them was expected to receive a stipend of
seven dollars weekly in addition to an allowance to cover the cost of
travelling to and from their teaching posts. These allowances were
considered incentives to encourage untrained teachers to participate in the
program.



IV. Protect Desisn and Preparation
12.       There was a conceptual framework for the Project.  The broad
issues identified in the Education and Training Memorandum (1979) were
addressed in the project design and outlined in the SAR. Detailed
arrangements wete made for textbook procurement and distribution and for
the teacher upgrading component - the two largest and most complex
components. More work was needed to identify the precise needs of
educational administration and management. In order to ensure: (a) that
the project design was understood by all relevant parties and (b)
sufficient collaboration among the various organizations, the establishment
of an advisory body to the PIU, with representatives from the participating
agencies (inter alia MOE, MVTC, AITB) was included. Completion Mission
review of the economic issues identified in the SAR in addition to
discussions held with senior officers in the Ministry of Planning suggested
that the economic situation would have continued to deteriorate in the
early eighties. Thus the Project was designed and subsequently launched in
an economic and financial situation that deteriorated to the point where it
eventually thwarted project completion.
13.       Although the problem of poor attendance of girls was recognized
(para. 2.26 of SAR), it was given little attention, whether in terms of
policy or operation or both. GOL needed to relax the regulation requiring
school uniforms which has deterred many poor rural parents from sending the
children to school, particularly the girls - already a disadvantaged group.
14.       The textbook component was designed to be self-financing.  The
supply of books would be replenished from a revolving fund, established
using the proceeds from book sales. In order to facilitate monitoring of
the program, bi-annual audits and annual evaluations were to be undertaken.
In spite of these efforts, the design of this component was deficient in
some respects. Rural children were at a disadvantage because of their poor
economic circumstances and the distance of the bookshops in town centers
far from the rural communities (up to 60 kilometers), although these
bookshops were closer to schools than in previous years. The local book
development program conceived during project preparation was appropriate.
At appraisal, however, this proposed component was replaced with a
different book procurement and distribution program because of the
immediate need for textbooks which were less expensive than those being
utilized at the time. If this component had been considered in terms of
the global issue of providing learning materials in the schools, it could
have been more cost-effective and beneficial to a larger number of
children. For instance, this component could have provided a simplified
book presentation in terms of color and size. For Grade 1, reading cards
and discussion charts would have been effective learning materials and less
costly than the provision of a set of five textbooks per pupil. Sets of
books provided for each rural school would have ensured that all pupils had
access to textbooks regardless of their financial means. If, however, it
was considered essential to sell the books, a prior market survey was
needed in order to determine the best approach to the sale of primary
school textbooks.



15.       Support for programs initiated under previous Bank Group
assisted projects to ensure that they were fully operational was an
indication of continuity in the approach to project design. The National
Council for Vocational and Technical Education and Training (NCVTET) was
established in 1976 as a policy making body for technical education and
vocational training. Under the Third Education Project, AITB was conceived
as the operational arm of the NCVTET in the area of agriculture and
industrial training. Over time, this distinction in their respective roles
has become blurred. There is need, therefore, for a clear understanding to
be worked out on the part of both organizations as to their roles and
responsibilities.
16.       Insufficient attention was given to the variations in the size
of the catchment areas when the standardized school building design was
being prepared. The use of a uniform school capacity as the basic unit
instead of a classroom module did not encourage flexibility in determining
the size of the project school. Consequently, some project schools were
too large for the catcbment areas. In addition, the number of fellowships
(persons to be trained) was not given - only staff years were given. This
deficiency has affected the evaluation exercise.
V.   Project Implementation
17.       An advisory body, the Project Implementation Council (PIC),
comprising representatives from the various ministries and departments
involved in the Project, assisted in coordinating project implementation.
Each organization involved in the Project understood its primary
responsibility for implementing its own components. At the same time, the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in MOE undertook the day-to-day co-
ordination with responsibility for specific aspects of the Project -
procurement, school construction undertaken through the Division of
Education Facilities (DEF), and accounting. The rate of project
implementation was facilitated by a provision of about US$500,000 by IDA
for GOL to undertake pre-project activities which included: (a) consulting
and professional services, (b) procurement of equipment and vehicles,
(c) architectural designs, (d) preparation of bid documents, and (e) a
pilot study for the textbook program. The organizational structure for
project implementation is sunmmarized in Annex 2.
18.       Although the organization for project implementation was
considered by the Completion mission to be satisfactory, progress in
implementation was affected by several factors. Uncertainty and confusion
between the PIU and high level officials at MOE resulted from changes of
minister, deputy minister and senior staff of the PIU.  Within the PIU
there were also considerable staff changes (detailed in Annex 3). The PIU
was not empowered to follow up the utilizatidn of the project funds and
equipment following handover of these resources to the various departments.
Thus the PIU did not take responsibility for the irregularities in
expenditures and the misuse of project veh'cles and equipment which
occurred during project implementation. This was identified during project
implementation by IDA supervision missions and confirmed by the Completion
mission. Nevertheless, the PIU made every effort to: (a) document
expenditures from the Special Account, (b) secure up-to-date project



-7-
audits, (c) identify fellows who defaulted on their fellowship obligations.
and (d) collect the funds owing the Government from book-sellers. The
separation of DEF from PIU in this project did not prevent a close working
relationship between the two units while the former was able to undertake
other MOE projects.
19.       Despite shortcomings, the implementation of the civil works
component undertaken by DEF was satisfactory. The schools, as built,
needed little maintenance and allowance was made for future expansion. In
most of the 10 schools visited by the Completion mission, drainage was
inadequate, resulting in problems during the rainy season. There were also
instances where wood-fire cooking areas provided within the building unit
were not utilized because the wind carried the smoke to nearby classrooms.
Such problems could have been avoided by better site planning. The
statutory requirement for a 10-hectare (25 acre) site for primary schools
resulted in schools being established where such tracts of land were
available, often at considerable distance from water and electrical
supplies. About a third less land would have been adequate and more
accessible. Furthermore it was not feasible to enclose these large sites,
(although enclosure would have enhanced security). In the evant, the
school compounds have not been enclosed. The locks for classroom doors
were unsuitable for heavy usage.
20.       All 24 primary schools were constructed as planned and savings
on building costs were utilized to construct nine additional primary
schools. Because of the suspension of disbursements of both IDA and ADB
lending proceeds, however, the additional schools have not been furnished.
A breakdown of sites and schools by county is given in Annex 4.
21.       The perimeter solid wall fence around the AITB/4VTC compound,
although fairly well designed, was only about 1.3m (4.5ft.) high and
incorporated regular lampstands. To be effective in keeping out
trespassers, this wall needed to have been at least 1.8m (6.00ft.). The
lampstands, which have been since vandalized, could have been omitted from
the design.
22.       The buildings for the three Regional Education Centers (RECs)
have been built but accessibility is limited because they are located too
far away from the main roads and town centers. Locating education service
centers near main roads should be given serious consideration for future
development of education as most teachers and administrative staff do not
own vehicles and rely on public transportation. Because there was no
appropriate program for fleet maintenance and control, only 16 of 38
vehicles provided under the Project were operable at the time of the
Completion mission (1989).
23.       Textbooks were selected by a committee comprising curriculum
officers and other HOE staff, to ensure that of the available books, only
those most relerant to the curriculum would be selected for procurement
under the project. According to IDA staff involved with the Project, MOE
was fair and efficient in selecting books for ICS procurement. The
Textbook Unit (TBU), established under the Project to manage the textbook
comDonent, experienced difficulties attributable to administrative



-8 -
shortcomings and poor logistical procedures. Although the physical
distribution of textbooks to sales agents was adequate, the standard of
record keeping and accounting was weak. Up to the time of the Completion
mission, the TBU procurement and distribution records had not been
reconciled and about 38,000 books (not including books transferred to the
Primary Department) had not been accounted for (Annex 5). As a result of
the implementation and subsequent evaluation of the pilot phase of this
component, HOE made changes in the arrangements for book sales, intending
to increase the number of books sold and the remittance of book sales from
the agents. In 1985, HOE cancelled contracts with dealers responsible for
distributing books, and introduced variable commission in order to
encourage sales agents to remit the proceeds from textbook sales. Book
sales were slow in rural areas and, although MOE had established a policy
making the purchase of textbooks mandatory for primary school pupils, there
were difficulties enforcing it.
24.       The contractual arrangements made with a consortium of U.S.A.
universities for the implementation of the staff fellowship orogram
facilitated the implementation of this component.
25.       An amendment was made to the Credit Agreement when it became
apparent that GOL could not provide the financing that was originally
agreed. In 1986, at the request of GOL, the Clerical Business and Domestic
Training Center (CBDTC) component, which was to provide direct benefits to
females, was deleted. thus releasing US$2.5 million of Credit proceeds to:
(a) increase IDA financing of fellowships from 90 percent of expenditure to
100 percent, (b) increase the number of teachers to be trained under the
project from 35 percent to 50 percent o£f the untrained teachers in the
primary schools, and (c) meet the shortfall of Credit proceeds due to the
declining value of the SDR against the dollar. (At Credit Signature
SDR12.6 million was equivalent to US$13.5 million; in 1985, it was
equivalent to US$12.2 million). Owing to the worsening country economic
conditions and GOL inability to meet debt payments and its agreed project
financing, IDA disbursements to the Project were suspended briefly in 1985.
The economic conditions continued to deteriorate and in 1986, both IDA and
ADB imposed a freeze on disbursements. As a result of this, the program
for upgrading teachers was stopped. The fellowship program was excluded
from the freeze, however, and was scheduled for funding through to June
1989 (Annex 6).
26.       Between 1986 and 1989, subsequent to the freeze on
disbursements, changes were made in an effort to minimize losses in
investments already made. These changes includeds
(a) a 50 percent reduction on the price of textbooks and subsequent
transfer of undistributed textbooks to the primary school
section of MOE to be distributed free of cost to children,l/
lt   A similar change of strategy toward free distribution in the light of
experience of falling sales of textbooks also occurred in Paraguay
Third Education Project (Loan 1346 PA/Credit 667/PA). (See para.
5.17 of Project Completion Report No. 4712 of September 19, 1983.)



- 9 -
(b) integrating the USAID funded Improved Efficiency of Learning
(IEL) primary education program with the HOE textbook and in-
service teacher training program, and
(c) distributing the teachers' guides free of cost to teachers.
27.       Of the 15 covenants agreed, 13 have been fulfilled or partially
fulfilled (Annex 7).
VI. Project Documentation and Data
28.       The PIU provided cost data to the completion mission, although
these were not readily available because ofs (a) the absence of an
appropriate recording system and (b) the frequent changes of key staff
during project implementation. Records of quantities, distribution and
costs relating to the textbook component were incomplete, particularly
after the suspension of disbursements. The latest audit report for the
textbook component available to the mission was dated April 30. 1985. For
the overall project accounts, the most recent audit report covered periods
ending 30 June, 1986 and 1987. Record keeping for the project components
implemented by the various government agencies did not receive the degree
of PIU scrutiny and control throughout project implementation that they
required.
29.       The Staff Appraisal Report was an adequate guide for project
implementation. For the two most complex components - teacher upgrading
and textbook procurement and sales - the SAR provided a detailed
description (SAR para 3.11 - 3.24) which set the stage for project
implementation.
VII. Project Results
30.       Except for the fellowship program, project implementation
activities ceased 30 months before the scheduled completion (December,
1988) because of the inability of GOL to meet its financing obligation
(Annex 8). Despite this premature termination of these activities, many
project objectives were achieved and this is a tribute to the extensive
project preparation as well as to the effort of the staff of the PIU
(Annex 9).
31.       Proiect Costs.  The actual project cost up to December 1988 was
US$20.6 million compared with the appraisal cost estimate of US$25.1
million - an under-expenditure of 18 percent. The Project was co-financed
by the African Development Bank (ADB). According to the PIU accounts,
project costs were met by IDA (US$11.4 million), ADB (US$7.6 million) and
GOL (US$1.6 million) - or 15, 21 and 11 percent respectively, less than
originally planned (Annex 10). The total cost of civil works was 20
percent and of furniture was 27 percent less than the respective appraisal
estimates. A sum of US$0.64 million is owing to local contractors.
Professional fees exceeded the appraisal estimate by 180 percent because
the cost of this component was under-estimated. An additional sum of
US$38,000, not included in the original estimates, was paid to local



- 10 -
consultants for streamlining the PIU accounting procedures. Because of the
early termination of the contracts for some consultants and the changes in
the duration of some fellowships, the costs for both expert assistance and
fellowship components fell below appraisal estimates, by 11 percent and 46
percent. respectively.11
32.       Maintenance.  Rapid deterioration has occurred in regard to
school furniture, office equipment and vehicles provided under the Project,
because of the absence of an appropriate maintenance program. The computer
has not been operating since 1986 because of the lack of spare parts and
the unsuitable arrangements between MOE and the suppliers for servicing.
(At the time of the Completion mission, MOE was making arrangements to have
the computer repaired or replaced). Another computer, purchased for the
University of Liberia. was never installed and was repaired, in 1988, after
being badly stored for a number of years.
Institutional Strengthening
33.       Educational Administration and Planning.  Although expert
assistance was provided, strengthening educational planning was negated by
the transfer of trained staff mainly to other areas of the Ministry. The
Information Service and Data System (ISDS) Unit was established with an
appropriate organizational structure. There were 18 staff posts, of which
13 were filled (Annex 11). The Unit undertook tot (a) establish an
educational data base for MOE in 1984 - data were collected in 10 of the 12
counties, and were being processed, but no feasible mechanism for data
collection and verification had been developed. (b) assist the Ministry of
Finance in determining data to be computerized. (c) assist the Textbook
Unit to establish a computerized inventory system, and (d) process UAEC
secondary school examination results. Although ISDS was adequate for the
services it provided in 1983, the prolonged period of inactivity of the
computer (para. 32) did not allow the Completion mission to undertake a
fair assessment of its adequacy in 1989.
34.       Examination Preoaration and Administration.  The Liberian branch
of WAEC has been strengthened through project assistance. Four of the five
members of staff trained in examination preparation and administration have
returned to their jobs and are employed in their area of specialization.
Secondary examination syllabuses have been revised and the new examination
papers offer a higher proportion of objective questions and test higher
levels of cognitive skills. The printing equipment is in operation and has
contributed to: (a) reducing the cost of printing examination papers, (b)
improving security, and (c) preparing the examination papers in time. An
examination report is prepared by UAEC, identifying the strengths and
weaknesses of student performance, and sent to MOE.
I/   Costs for fellowships exclude US$160,000 to be paid for staff who are
still in training. This payment will have minimum impact on the
percentage of expenditure for fellowships.
1,



- 11 -
Ugsarading the Quality of Primary Education
35.       Textbook Program.  Although the objective of making textbooks
available nation-wide was not achieved, the textbook component of the
Project succeeded in providing reading materials at a time when there was a
dearth of these in the education system. If the 478,296 books procured
under the project were distributed to primary school pupils, then the
bookipupil ratio would be approximately 2:1. Even so only a third of the
278,000 pupils enrolled (1984) would have received the five books
stipulated. At appraisal it was envisaged that a used book market would
exist and that his would make books cheaper. The textbook re-use market
was developed in Monrovia and, hence, benefitted mainly urban children.
Poor children were unable to purchase the books, although some of them may
benefit from the decision taken by MOE to deliver the remaining (about
50,400) copies free of cost to be kept and utilized in the schools. The
social studies books were most relevant to the teaching progravmme in the
primary schools. The science books were generally unsuitable because (a)
the concepts as they were presented tended to be sterile and were not
applied to daily living. (b) the layout of illustrations and information
could sometimes mislead the pupils, and (c) overall, the textbooks were not
related to the syllabus. This was particularly true for the Grade IV
science textbook. The language of the mathematics books was not graded and
was not readable for children at their respective grade levels. This
deficiency in the language level limited the amount of self-learning which
could have been generated among pupils.
36.       Teacher Upgrading.  In keeping with appraisal estimates, about
2,250 untrained teachers were registered in the in-service teacher
upgrading program offered under the Project. The total number of teachers
upgraded under the program was about 1,200. Many failed the final
examination in the first year, some dropped out of the program despite the
incentive (para. 12) and about 600 others were half way through the
program when IDA terminated disbursement of Credit proceeds. The program
was well prepared and executed. The training manuals and guides have been
carefully stored by the University of Liberia and will be available for use
in the future. The Completion mission visited Liberia during the school
vacation period and it was not possible to assess the performance of the
trained teachers. The proportion of females to males in the program was
only 110 as shown belows
Total
Year      Enrollment      Hale     Female      ZFemale
1984        516           465        51           10
1985        608           645        63           10
1986        604           520        62 1         10
1987        431           389        42 '         10
The Universities were not always informed of the transfer of trainees, by
MOE, from one school to another. This breakdown in communication resulted
in waste of resources and frustration among the teacher trainers.



_ 12 -
37.       School Supervision.  The three regional offices, established as
part of the MOE effort to decentralize its operations, have not been
operating fully because of the acute shortage of vehicles, materials and
equipment. The mandate of these offices has not been clearly established.
At present, many decisions made by the regional education officers depend
more on their initiative than on mandated functions. Nevertheless, the
establishment of these offices symbolizes the intention of GOL to
decentralize educational management and supervision. Potentially, these
offices could be effective in improving the quality of education in the
regions by facilitating better supervision support and training workshops
for teachers.
38.       Access to Primary Education.  Some 9,600 primary school places
were provided, 3,600 more than was envisaged at appraisal. In a number of
schools built under the Project, primary and secondary education programs
are offered on a shift basis (Annex 12). Although utilization of the same
building for primary and secondary education was the practice in Liberia
when the Project was conceived, this practice was not taken into
consideration in the Project design. Therefore, the school buildings were
designed only as primary schools, without facilities for offering secondary
education. At the time of the Completion mission, secondary enrollment in
project schools was small but indications were that they would increase
gradually through the transfer of pupils from Grade 6 in primary schools tr
the secondary level. Overall, the school buildings were under-utilized,
about 14 schools having enrollments of 50 percent or less of the design
capacity.
VIII.     Technical Assistance
39.       Generally, the technical assistance component was satisfactorily
implemented (Annex 13).
40.       Expert Services.  (a) AITBE  Despite the problems faced by the
freeze on disbursements, the experts at AITB assisted in establishing job
analysis, a system of national trade standards and trade tests appropriate
for Liberia. They also assisted AITB in developing the administrative
framework for coordinating skills training in Liberia. Training programs
were undertaken in middle level management and training guides were
developed in power saw operation and tractor driving. Sample surveys were
undertaken in the field to determine skill needs and workshops were
conducted in the principles of plant supervision. To ensure that the
public and private sectors benefitted from the training programs,
participants for the workshops were drawn from Government offices and
private sector companies.
(b) Plannini and Managements Except for the establishment of
ISDS, the work done by the experts in educational planning and
administration in MOE was less identifiable. The poor impact of the
services provided in these areas can be attributed to ill-defined terms of
reference. frequent transfer of Liberia staff, and non-appointment of
counterpart staff in most instances. After approximately 14.5 staff years
of expert services intended for institutional strengthening, there seems to
be little improvement in the planning and administration of education.



- 13 -
(c) Textbookes In case of the textbook component, the terms of
reference were for a textbook publisher whereas the job required more
precisely the skills of textbook marketing and management of procurement
and sales.
41.       Fellowship Program.  Of the 69 persons who had completed their
training by February 1989, 61 returned to take up jobs in their
specialization (Annex 13). Overall, the fellowship program provided
training in areas important to the development of education. Nevertheless,
in retrospect it is clear that more training was needed in areas related to
educational planning and administration.
IX. Proiect Sustainability
42.       In financial respects - purely with reference to adequate
recurrent financing for maintenance and operation of project feasibility
and services - the Project is not fully sustainable at this stage. Most
project operations (with exception of the textbook component) can be kept
going with limited efficiency because of less funding than originally
expected. An appropriate maintenance program is crucial to retaining an
acceptable level of benefits throughout the economic life of the project
buildings (about 50 years). Insufficient transportation at the regional
centers has hindered the achievement of improved school supervision. The
strengthening of the information system, provided that it can be restored
to full operation, may have some desirable impact during the next decade.
In institutional respects, the human resource capacity built up as a result
of the Project is sufficient to sustain project benefits but there remains
a need for strengthening in planning and management at MOE.
X.   IDA Performance and Lessons of Experience
43.       During the project generation stage, the Bank Group performed
fairly well, identifying key issues and supporting components to bring
about improvement in primary schools and in the management of education and
training.  The noticeable time lag between project preparation and project
approval was caused by the emphasis of IDA antd GO'" on adequate preparation
of the project components before appraisal (Annex 14). Project supervision
by IDA was particularly good up to the suspension of IDA disbursements.
There were 10 supervision missions of which seven included a general
educator (Annex 15). The presence of the educator may have contributed to
the high quality of supervision of the education components. Some time
lapsed, however, before IDA provided well needed supervision to advise MOE
an measures which would prevent loss of investments already made (para.
26). Supervision teams were able to agree with GOL on changes required to
facilitate the smooth implementation of such 'a complex project.
44.       The main lessons learned by IDA arJ as follows:
(a) The arrangements for textbook distribution and cost recovery
needed to be based on realistic assessments of the capacity of
pupils to pay for books and the logistics of reaching remote
rural children; furthermore, if a textbook program is intended



- 14 _
to be self-financing, it needs to be operated in business-like
manner and professional advice on marketing, sales and
distribution should be sought (para. 23);
(b) More consideration should have been given to the education of
girls in a country, such as Liberia, where females are clearly
disadvantaged in the education system (para. 13);
(c) The overall economic and financial conditions and prospects in
the country require more rigorous and thorough analysis as a
basis for determining whether a project is financially feasible
(para. 12);
(d) Substantial preparation - as was the case with certain
components of the Project - set the stage for smooth
implementation of the project (para. 17);
(e) Contractual arrangements for technical assistance can
effectively minimize many problems associated with implementing
such a complex project (para. 24);
(f) Effective decentralization of education depends, among other
things, on the extent to which Regional centers are given a
clear mandate, adequate staff and an adequate operating budget
for transport (para. 37); and
(g) The experience of this Project demonstrates: (a) the importance
of close monitoring of the use of the Special Project Account,
especially in situations of extraordinary shortage of funds
available to the Ministry for non-project purposes and (b) that
even under difficult economic and financial conditions some
considerable progress can be made in project implementation
(paras 18; 30).
XI. Borrower's Performance and Lessons Learned
45.       A major strength of the Borrower was the preparation of the
design and tendering of the civil works at an early stage in the project
cycle. This early initiative allowed time for careful supervision during
construction and for keeping within the project completion schedule. The
advantage gained by the early start was someulhat nullified by the frequent
transfer of staff in the PIU and some other staff holding key positions.
The main weakness was the lack of GOL financing. The standard of record
keeping necessary for the overall monitoring of the Project was inadequate,
especially, for example, on textbooks and enrollments.
46.       Many of the lessons learned by the Borrower are similar to those
of IDA. In addition the Borrower learned thatt
(a) There is need to ensure adequate project implementation by
accumulating expertise in the PIU through staff retention and
training (para. 18);



- 15 -
(b) Good record keeping is essential to effective monitoring and
coordinating of project implementation (para. 28);
(c) Sustained changes in educational management and administration
requires (i) a thorough review to identify areas of weaknesses
and make recommendations for improvement, (ii) a planned
sequence of necessary changes. (iii) specific taaks to be
identified and the recruitment of suitable persons, and (iv) an
arrangement which would encourage job retention among local
staff; and
(d) GOL can improve the output of technical experts by providing
terms of reference showing clearly defined tasks and
responsibilities and providing suitable counterparts and
physical facilities (para. 40).



- 17 -
PMT II.
PROJECT REVIEW FMOM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(The Borrower was requested to provide a review but none was received.)



- 19 -
PART III. BASIC DATA
Annex 1        Liberia - IDA - Assisted Education Projects - Relationship
to Government Sector Objectives
Annex 2        Organizational Structure for Project Implementation
Annex 3        Level of Staff Continuity in PIU
Annex 4        Project Sites and School Building by County
Annex 5        Textbook Procurement and Distribution
Annex 6        Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 7        Status of Covenants
Annex 8        Implementation Schedule
Annex 9        Agreed and Actual Project Outcomes
Annex 10       Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Costs
(b) Project Financing
Annex 11       Division of Information Systems and Data Services
(a) Organizational Chart
Cb) Employees of the Computer Unit
Annex 12       Enrollment in Project Schools
Annex 13       Technical Assistance
(a) Expert Services
(b) Summary of Fellowship Program
Annex 14       Project Timetable
Annex 15       Supervision Missions



LibUera - llt - Assisted Education PrJects - Relationship to ioverrnt Sector DOJectiwes
Project Outcoee                                                                  Appraisal tstletes
First Project (Crtedt 3to-LIR)           Second Prjejct (tan  1266T-tLO)           Third Project (Loan 1417-LBR)             fourth Project (Credit 1306 LOB
wovernient Objecties                   1972-1979: Att#tSS7.2 ailoon              1976-I992: Amt*itSS4O million             1977-1963:  t-USS6.3 million             1992-19195 A     5U%_12.LS mdllite
A. 0ua11tativ Upgrading Of Ed1Catio0
1. tLevls of Educatioo
Primary                                          . . .                          Constructed. furnished and equipped                 - - - -                        Contrucintg. furnishiag et
43 crdunOty schools                                                                equipping  tmI Sntary 31 .ori-
vary schools -S mw en
21 replecwAmats (civil verhi
financed by ADS)
-  Secondary                            2 multilateral ttigh schools -                       - - - -                                   - - - -                                   -   - -
shout 1.200 student pIces.
trainitn of principaIs nod
T.A. suport for new pograms
-  Technical(Vtational Ed.                         - - - -                                   - - - -                        Established four ucenc  ands                          -- - -
technology centres
2. Teacher tralning
- Elmntary                              itproed teacher trainlng                   Espanded of the Zorzor Rural             Staff fellowship                          Upgrading 2.5DD ua-tratoed
institution (EKRTI)                       Teachers Training Institute                                                        primary school teacbrs
Staff fellowships for U.M.S
TubaAn's Teachers Collep.
* Secondary                             Science equigment for t.t.S.                         - - - .                       Expansion to WiS Tuln as Teachers                       - - * 
Tubusns  teachers. tollege. Uniersity                                              College
of Liberia
- Technical Vocatiornal                 lproved technical t nher training                    - - - -                                   -  - . .. . . 
3.  at1ing curricula more relevant         Assisted scienceu crriclun                Assisted Carulculun Development                     - - - -                                   - . - -
tA enviromental ond  anpower            studies i.t.S  Tudnas Teachers             Unt In hOEC
aeds                                    College
4. Itproving Educational Testing                      . - - -                         Strengthened the Divislon of                        . . - -                        Strengthening the Liberian
Testing. tiE                                                                       aranch of the Most Africo
Extminattons Council.
S. Providing suitable text bookts                     - - - -                         Strengthened textbook production In                 - - - -                        Providing primary school
and teachtng materials                                                             IE                                                                                 tertbooks for all gre
levels in five core Subject
areas.
6. Improving Administration; Planniag      Established epowr Planaing                 Assisted educational planning           Strengthened  nanpover Planning Unit       Establishing Diviston of
and Evaluation                          Unit. NU  an  strengtheme  Educational                                                                                        tnformation Systemc and Date
Planing Unit. NOM                                                                                                             srtie (2SS)
Established tracer system                                                                                                     tstablishing three regional
education officis
Strengthening educatioal
planning an  adtnistratmca.
7. Iogroviag project maagemnt and          Establishd PIU                             Strengthteed the PtU (accoutancy.       Assisted Division of Educational           Financing operatloni1g costs
implementation                                                                    administrAtJon Snd procurenent)          Factilties (OEf)                           of the Pi'U  Assistua   to fOE
B. Itproving the University of Liberia     Prerd lon  range developmnt                          - - - -                       Staff fellowships, vehicles and            Extendtag long tere
loft)                                   plea for UOL: 197-18                                                               eqouptent                                  University Plean to 1990.
fellowships for Untvertity
Staf f.
D.  adtingt igre ebical lieqities          Establined multilateral schools            tocated cemnity schools in six                      - . - -                                  - - - -
disadvantaged tountries
C. Ntlieg   _d    Tr for skilled pesanl    Establisbd toilege ot agriculture and   Pland for establishment of a               Established AITB. Constructed              Support to eonsolidate opera
forestry                                  Forestry Training Institute              farithed. equtpped ond staortd            tioat at AMl.
Provided for Literay Prrom                                                         a FOrestrfy Trininog institute.           SuppOrt to cnsolidte opera
StrtteOd lISTC                            tins at IITC.
S       the Stru"gle CosetinMs World Bank and Axrian Develoent Bnok tnvntnats In Liberian Educationat  Devaelopmet (t972-198S) Mtnistry of Education. Liberia; $AR Republic Of Liberia.
fourth Educattio xovber 16. 1982.



Annex 2                                22-
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
MOE
Ntin OE             Dep Nlin OE
l    -O|YPrimarv|
Sour:  M wTCwAITI9
(I'ene) .
MOYS
Source: I)iscussions with PIU, Feb. 1989



Annex 3
-23 -
LEVEL OF STAFF CONTINUITY IN PIU
PIU                     C a l e n d a r   Y e a r s                        No.
Principal                                                                      of
Staff       1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988 Changes
Director            A      A     A     A     A      B     B     B     C      D      3
Dep. Director       A      A     B     B     B      B     B     -      _     _      1
(Accounts)
Dep. Director       A      B     B     B     B      C     C     C     D      D      3
(Fel l owship)
Dep. Director       _      _     _     _     _      _     _     -     -      A
(Admin)
Project             A      A     A     A     A      A     A     B     C      D      3
Assist. Project     A      A     A     A     A      A     A     A   AB       C      2
Account
Procurement         A      A     A     A     A      A     A
Officer
Bookkeeper          A      A     A     A     A      A     A
Sec. (Executive)    A      A     A     A      A     A     A     A      A     A
Senior Clerk        A      A     A     A     A      A     B     B      B     B      1
Record Supervisor   A     A      A     A     A      A     B     B     B      B      1
General Service     A      A     A     A     A      A     A     A      A     A
officer
Clerks of Works     -      -     A     A     A      A
Source:  Discussions with PIU, February 1989



Annex 4                                 -24-
PROJECT SITES AND SCHOOL BUILDING BY COUNTY
Replacement                  New                   Total
Schools                 Schools
County
Appr.       Actual      Appr.       Actual      Appr.       Actual
Montserrado              1            2           1           31I         2           5
Bassa                    2            1           1           -           3           1
Cape Mount               2            2           -           -           2           2
Bong                     5            5           -           -           5           5
Lofa                     1            2           2           2           3           4
Nimba                    3            3           -           -           3           3
Grand Geddah             2            5           -           -           2           5
Sinoe                    2            2           -           -           2           2
Mlaryland                1            1           1           1           2           2
River Cess               -            2           -           -           -           2
Alargibi                 -            2           -           -           -           2
Total                   19           27           5           6          24          33
1/       Includes two Elementary Schools combined into a single High School.
Source: ADB Appraisal Report and Mission discussions with PIU.



Annex S
- 25 -
Textbook Procurement and Distribution
(Not including pilot phase)
No. of          Stocks       Distribution    Difference
Books            in             from         between
Textbooks                Procured          1987          Warehouse       (a) and
(a)             (b)             (c)        (b) + (c)
(i)   English (incl. teacher        24 946          13 290          14 478        + 2 822
Guides)
0i)    idMaths ()cl. teacher       128 100          80 916          52 204        + 5 020
Guides)
(HO } Science (ncl. teacher        100 800           4 492          91 597        - 4 711
Guides)
(iv)  Social Studies               128 450          84 213           3 012        -41 225
(v)   Reading                       96 000             -            96 000            (0)
Total                   478 296         182 911         257 291        +38 094
Source: TBU, February 1989



SOEUE OF SISIJRSEIIS
cuuala                                             ~F  i s c a  I   r e  a r
Csumuatied n
tsUalteds and       1983              1984                       1985                        1986                         1987                           1988                   1989
Actual D1sb . ..
loents             3     4      1      2      3     4      1      2     3      4      1      2    3      4       1        2      3       4       1      2      3       4       1      2
Appraisal
Estimate         1.100  1.300  1.900 2.200  2.900  3,600 4.400  5.300 6.700  7.000 7,700  8.400  9.000  9.600  10,200  10.800  11.300  11.700  1U.100  12,500  12.800  13.100  13.300  13.s00
Actual           1.184  1.304  2,471  3.180  4.134  4,947  5.059 5.270 6.504  6.717  7.703 8.200  8.S67 8,6S2  8,777   9.596   10.134  10.156  10,243  10.318  10.318  10.318  10.318
AclI as
I   EXtimte   +8          0    +65   +44   +42   *437    +15    a    +5    -4    0    -2    -5    -10    -14    -11    -10    -13    -tS    -1B    -19    -21    -22
Source: Appraisal Report. IDA Supervision Reports and PIU. February 1989



- 27 -                                                      Annex 7
srM  OF cv sum
Agreement
Reference                  Covenant                                           Status
Section 2.02 (c) and (d)  Open a  Special Account with the National         met
Bank  of  Liberia.  IDA   to  deposit   in       WDA deposlted in Specitl Account USS306,000 (8 tlarch 19BS
Special Account, equivalent to SDR 280,000.
(f)  The Borrower to deposit in Special Account       Partially met
or refund to IDA any amounts withdrawn and       An amount of USS 64,176.49 had  been  withdrawn  to meet
not justified  according  to  the terms of       ineligi!>le  expenditure.   This matter is being rsolved
the Agreement.                                   by providing substitute documeutation to IDA for a*ounts
withdrawn ftom the Special Accctnt. This method has
enabled the Borrower to "pay back" into the Special
Account the outstanding amount.
Section 3.01          (b)  Borrower  to  open  up  a  revolving  fund        Partially met
(Project Account) with an initial deposit        The project  account  vas  established  with  an initial
of USS 200,000  and  to   replenish   the        deposit of USS 200,000 (18 January 1983). Small deposits
account quarterly.                               were made  in  October  1983  and  May   1984  totalling
USS 153,000. No deposits have been made since that time.
Section 3.04          (a)  The  Borrower  to  furnish  IDA  with plans,   met
specifications, reports, contract documents,
construction and procurement schedules for
the project.
(b)  The Borrower shall maintain records.             Not met
Adequate records were not
available particularly for the text book component.
(d)  The Bororwr to  prepare  final report.            oet
Section 3.05               The Borrower to furnish information on            Met
sites for civil works.
Section 3.06 (a) and (b)  The Borrower to furnish by 31 Harcb of each    Met
year, a list  of MOE  workshop  topics and    The workshops were held in November/December 1983. An
participants and an evaluation of the work-    evaluation report was sent to IDA.
shops from the preceeding year.
Section 3.07          (a)  Establish a Special  interest bearing             Although the Borrower established the account in November
Account for deposit of funds received            1984,  it was  not kept up-to-date. Money was taken out,
from the sale of textbooks.                      but not  replenished in  January 1987, IDA requested that
funds wrongly withdrawn should be replaced into the
(b)  Review  with IDA, the mechanisms for             account.  In  accordance with  the approval received fror
operating the account.                           IDA  (August 1988),  the remaining  stock of books was tc
be distributed free to schools.
(c)  The Borrower to send IDA report by               Met
independent   auditors   for   the               Last report prepared bv auditors was dated 30th April
procurement of textbooks.                        1985. This  report was undertaken before funds were
withdrawn from the account by MOE.
Section 3.08          (a)  The  Borrower  to  send  IDA annual report        met
evaluating execution of textbook programme.    Annual reports were submitted by consultants up to end
of 1986.
(b)  The  Borrower to send IDA an evaluation of
the  impact of  the  textbook  programe.         Not met.
Section 3.09   a, b & c)  The  Borrower to  furnish  IDA  by 30 June         Deleted
1983 a propoied fee structure for CDBTC.
Section 3.11               The  Borrower, by 15 June  of each year to        Partially met
furnish IDA for review budgets for primary       The Borrower provided information for FT 1984 in July
education, AITB, UTC and CDBTC                   1985.
Section 4.01 (a) and (b) The Borrower to maintain records.                   Partially Met
(financial)                                      Succesaive audit reports pointed to weakness in PIU syste
on  controls.   MOE  appointed  one  local  consultant  t
redesign systems at a cost of US538,000.0O and eventuall
received us$23,000.00 A new consultant was paid a furthe
US$IS,000.00 to  carry out and complete the work. A cor
of this consultant's report (15 July 1988) was sent to It
(c)  The  Borrower  shall  prepare  audits  for       Partially Met
special account, project account, separaze       Audit report was prepared  for fiscal year 1984-5 and
account and send copies to IDA.                  set to IDA. The 1986-87 report vas prepared  but has
been withheld by auditors because of non-psyment by COL.
Source , Credit Agreement and discussions witb PIU, February 1989.



Implementation Schedule
1981      1982      1983       1984      1985      1986     1987      1988     1989
Componants               1 2 3 4 1234    1 2 3     4    1 2 3  4    1 2 3  4    1 2 3  4   1 2 3  4  1 2 34  1 2 3 4
Design, Work, Drgs., Tender and
Supervision of Construction        xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx cx
Furniture and Equipment
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Technical Assistance
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xx
Fellowships
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx :xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Textbooks
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
17 Dec'86
IDA Suspends
2  Appraisal                                                                      Disbursments
x Actual
Source: Appraisal Report and PIU



- 29 -
Agr ed  AtIl Polct OA eomen                                                       9
Agreement                                       ACtual                                  Comments
Pat A
Education Planning and Administration nd
Proieet Preosartton
i)     Vehicles for project supervision and  12  vehieles supplied to PIU.                  At the time of the completion mission
related spare pas                      6  Vehicles supplied to DEF                   only eight vehieles were still in operation
4 vehicles supplied to Planninq and Adminis-  All spare parts have been utilized.
tration spare parts were also supplied.
ui)    Fquipment to help MOE maintain        Computer swplied                               Computer has not been in operation since
nlannimnt uccountiug and persOnnel                                                   %..vember lIbS
.r.for:i:;.tion
part It
-    - tsno %1- xSure nents
ehiievs and equipment for KSAEC      A multilith end three venicles were supplied    sA  vtehicles are still ir. oOteatiOr.
tO * A£~C                                     S r ntiug .quir:iiolt sop- So *~ stdl n L.
to UAEC                                                        %xiii I..~~~~~~~~iitiIi
Port C
rextDo,  I'r'curcnient und Distnnution
ii    Textbook                               Thie following have been delivered to TBU:     iehicles ho longer in operation
ii     Furniture                             Four jeeps; office furniture and warehouse     Equipment such as typewriters, photocopvinc
iiHO    Office equipment and materil!        for book storage; typewnters; photocopying     machtne and calculators are no longer
tv)    Vehicles                              machine. calculators                           in operatwon.
Part D)
Teacher Trainingr and Upgraing
i)    Pedagogical matenal                    Computer for UOL has Deen purchased.           computer has not been in operation
together with pedagogical material.  Four     tiecause of damage as a result of inisde-
vehicles were also deliverec.                 quate storage. At the tine of the
In-service tra.aing of about 1.200 primary    completion mtssion, it was repaired.
school teachers.                               About 90 per cent of equipment has oeen
procured. The balance was paid for Dut
not delivered.
t1WQ to add teacber training)
Part E
Educational Supervision
i)    Constreting, funiship ano              Completed                                      Equipment including radios, in urgent neec
equipping three                                                                      of repair ano maintenance.
Regional Edueational Centres.
Part F
School Construction
i)    Constructing, fun-ishing and equipping    A total of 33 schools, including nine       Onmy 3.65 per cent of the cost of furniture
additional schools (the latter without        to the nine additional schools was paid to
furniture). Equipment was not supplied to     contntetors. According to PIU a total of
all 33 schools.                               US$0.58 is still due to contractors for
civil works comnpleted.
ii)    Furaiture and equipment to 30         Equipment not supplied to the 30 exIting       Equipment was not paid for because of the
exsting schools                       schools                                        non-availability of tunds.
Part C
MVTC and AiTB
i)     Fence wall to penmeter of MVTC        Completed                                      A cement block wall 1.3 m (4.5 ft) high
and AITO                                                                             was constructed, with tall lampstands at
regular intervals. All lempstands are
now broken.
ii)    Office equipment materials and        Supplied                                       MVTC has now expended all appropriation
technical books                                                                      for equipment
liI)    Vehicles                             Fotw vehicles suWpied                          Only two vehicles are still operational
Part 11
Commercial training
i     Constctft funittg and                  Cancelled                                      Basic designed and working drawings were
eqpping of a 215 place                                                               completed by local private consultants.
CBDTC in Monrovia.                                                                   Additional work carried out
by consultants not paid for 
Part I
Technical Assistance
i)      Expert servies (31 staff yrs.)       21.1 staff years
it)     Fellowdsps (fJ staff yrs.)           61.4 staff yer                                 Schedule for completion June 89
Sourc; Credit Agreemnt end disc5uss with PU. PFebnI t 199.



Annmx 10                                                                30 -
Page  of 2
Pam=~  c0ST mD FIEJCIW
(a) Prject tctts
iUSl wiuitta)
Aopratsal Estnisatei                         ctual Ctes:
w itth coatigefctci  )
Catecou             Local Costs fraege   Etch.    Tstal    LDcca  Ccttt Fireta Ext.   lotal
(1)          t2!            3u           (4)                                    _
ttVf uc rvti                 *3            I 2           7 S          Q16.0                      6.1       Colc;         ADm -1    }Q-1
Co5:    £t-O IS  ) 6 OS
Cal$:        £DA0. is
Faurrtum                     0.3           1.6           I.S           _            1.2          1.2       t*14:         IDA-0.00) 0.0002
COrS:        ttOA.6    1..2
ACB-I.t 
EoultWnot                   0.15           1.9          2.0S           --           1.3          1.3       COM           1OJ-0.004 1 0.004
Ptofessional FooS            O.IS          0.1          0.25           0.5        C..2           0.7        Co14:         A- O0S9  0.54
115:        1OA-042     0.2
408-0
Teichnical Asalstaoca         1.1          6.2           1,3           0.2          6.3          6.5        CoW4:        1A-04       0.2
A03-0
tols:        IDA-6.3   ) 6,3
F.lloh1i-S                                 2.6           2.6            --          1.4          1.4       Cot<:
Ccats.       104.1.43  )1.45
A38-0.02
Txook                         --           2.6           2.6          0.3           2.1          2.4       tol4:         IO3    0.3
to15:        104-.1      2.1
Operatioal Costs             0.5           0.4           0.9           O.S          o.s          1.0       C114:           4-0.5   I 0.s
ColS:        3AD-0.635
totad Pve$act cost           6.9          18.6          SS.1           1.6         19.0         23.6
1*tlades awuittag and architact-s fets,
Scc: APPisal Peoort Rd OIScuOslteS wtith PIU. Feb. 1989.



Amez 10
-  31  -                                             Page 2 of 2
(b) Proleet FianEing (UJS$000)
Source                    Allocation of Proceeds        Diff.                          Comments
Credit 
Cgreement       Actual
_      _ ,                                  .                       ._)
i.   IaRD/IDA
Expenditure Categoies
i)    Civil Works;                                                              Ci%il Works                       s $  150
Professional Fees                   1 006           413         -59       Prot, Fees                        : $ 163
Fumiture                                                                  Furniture                         : $ 100
Total                            : S 413
i)   Equipment;                                                                 Equipment                            S947
Textbooks and Distribution          3 424         3 126         - 9       Textbooks                         : $2 025
Distribution                     : $ 154
Total                            :3 126
iii)   Fellowships;                                                             Fellowships                       : $1 356
Technical Assist.                  6 313           242         +15       Tech Assist                       : $5 886
Total                            : $7 242
iv)    Initial Deposit                      300           0.7         -98       Col. 2 as of Dec. 1988
in Special Account                                                       only $3?5.00 in special account. Application is
being prepared to WB for $6,941.13
v)     Refunding of Project Preparation     802           639         -20       TA                                : $ 466
Advances                                                                 Prof. Fees                        . $  37
Equipment                           $  65
Fellowships                      : $  71
Total                            . $ B39
vi)    Unallocated                        1 637            -           -
1.    IDA
Total                             13 482        11 421         -15
2.    ADS Total                           9 800         7 133         -21       Deduct from Refunding of Project Preparation
Advances.
Civil Works                     : $   0.5
Domestic Total                            1 800         1 600         -11       Equip. (PIU)                     : $  59  i
Grand Total                              25 082        20 752         .17       Because Project costs afe calculated In US$MII an4
Project finance in USS000 the two totals am
considered equivalent.
Source: Credit Agreement and PIU, February 1989.



DIVISION OP INFORMATION SYSTEMS ANI) DATA SERVICES
(a) Organizational Chart
m nivision                                                             ..
Director
(   Seeretary/Messenger) 
Dr1iver
I
Chief                                                           Chief
Information                                                      Data Services
Systems Sector                                                        Sector
(Messenger)                                                         (Mlessenger)
llead          -     (Systems Analyst
Operations                 ~(Jr. Syste-ms)                                           (Data Netw,ork)
Unit                  St                 ( Analyst   )                           (Coordinator >
(Publication/ )   (  Assistant  )
(Data Entry)                                                                                      a(Mpping Spec.)   (to Specialist)
( Operator )                           ( Programmer                                                 Statistician)    (Data Editor)
(Datanry)                                              _      Jor   )                                                 (Data Editor)
( Operator )                                                Programe Programmer  rData Editor)
(Work Station)
( Operator )
(Work Station
( Operator )
(Work Station
Operator
Source: NIOE1 Administration



- 33 -                              Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
(b) EMPLOYEES OF THE COMPUTER UNIT
(10 February 1989)
Position                                 Ii I I /Vacant
I.  Director                                            riil
2.  Chief of Section                                    rill
3.  Programmer                                          Fill
4.   Programmer                                         Fill
5.  Data Network Coordinator                            Fill 
6.  Word Processing Analyst                             Fill
7.  Jr. Programmer                                      Fil 1
8 .  Jr. System Analyst                                 Fill
9.   Head, Computer Operations Unit                      Fill
10. Data Entry Operator                                 Fill
11. Work Station Operator                               Fill
12. Work Station Operator                               Fill
13. Mlessenger                                          Fill
14. Coordinator                                        Vacant
15. Systems Analyst                                    Vacant
16. Executive Secretary                                Vacant
17. Programmer                                         Vacant
18. Data Entry Operator                                Vacant
Source: MOE Administration



Amex 12                                                    - 34
FmrdmaLt it rkt ot
Enrolment
Conty and school-                                                                                                           Difference
Elementary        Elemmntary             High              Total              Design             Total
1981              1988               Igo8e 922                           Capaoty            Capoacty
N:26              N228                N-9                                  N=33               N-27
Camv_v_i                           114                NA                 NA                 NA                :                    A
Fendell                            162                110                 40                iS0               :
Paynesvillell ./                    -                   0              1 200              1 200               552                2172'
Wayne TownV/ 2/                     -                 236                 16                469               4G7                 97
FcrtsviIIe                         113                NA                 NA                 % A                  ,-                0
Cap" mmt
B                                 144                IS                  *                18                                    S.
Senie                              157                178                 12 2u 9                                s6               69
Knayatta                            56                102                 -                 102                276                3.4'
8fnolt                             147                168                 31                209               276                 76
Gbanse                              17                 99                 -                  99               276                 S64'
It. Ktollie Townt                  226                261                 -                 261                27.6               95
Obonyen                             63                126                 13                139               _.76                3u
Lorloe                             200               IOS                  -                 105               :.6                 384'
Ban5gzanzL2                                           121                 -                 121               2.6                 4441
Kpongbealama2l                      -                  96                 -                  96               ^76                 35±'
dimba
Kraiplay                           219                218                 -                 218               27.6                .9
9tmla                             1S0                  98                 -                 98                '.6                 354
Zekepa                             294                 98                 -                  98               27.6                354/
-3an Gedeb
Tuzonll                            169                NA                 NA                 NA                414                 NA
Ja*eken                            148                204                 18               222                276                 8u
Gtarlokeanl                         78                31                  -                  31               276                 114'
Pcnnoken                           265                171                 17               188                276                 68
lablor Town                        NA                  41                 -                  41               276                 154/
Sangb,   Town                      146                167                                   167               276                 60
2ew Town                            44                 54                                   54                276                 204/
Wrapluken2I                         -                  58                                   58                276                 21±/
Blew Cm
River Cew                          163               140                  -                140                :76                 SOl/
Boe Town                            76                125                                  125                276                 424i
Grand K4u
Grnd Cess                          104                NA                 NA                 NA                 s4                 NA
Unifcatlanl                        114                NA                 NA                 NA                276                 NA
Karney Towni                        NA                NA                 NA                 NA                276                 NA
Total                    4 246              3  n9              1 3S4              5 02               9 246                 S5
Aveng  Seb)                     163                137                150                180                280                 60
,U,1     Aditimol 8rbools 2   New School; 3t Double Shft;  y  Schols with 50s or less easolment than design capcty
N   a   Sample Sizes  NA          Not Available
Se  ie     n stry i of Edutior., Ubeda, February 1989.
Some -cls prd  leme    sd nc edtion a4 a



-    -                               Am= 13
Page A of 2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(a) Expert Services
Expert Services                       Staff Years
Deparment                     Specialist Area                   Agreed            Actual
WAEC                   Test Development                           2.5               3.0
ilTB and MVTC         Job Analysis
Trade Standards                            6.5               3.9
Trade Testing
Curriculum Development
MOE                    Educational Plaprrng                                         4.5
and Management                            10.5
Data Processing                                              2.4
Educational Admin.                                           2.3
Textbook Specialist                        3.0               2.0
Staff Development                          1.0               2.0
Educational Supervision                    1.0               1.0
CBDTC                  Technical and Vocational                   5.5                0.0
Education
MOL                    University Planning                         -                 -
Total Staff Years                                                30.0              21.1
Source: PIU, Ministry of Education.



Amet 13                                                                - 36 -
Page 2 of 2
(b) SlUV OF FEELSIIP PUIE
Acedemic Level
Specsilization                   No. of              Staff                                                                                           lln-
Perns               banths              Ph.D             Hastrn           Bachelors         Certificate         Certificate
AduInistration/Acet41/t.                    6_/              86.0                 -                  4                                     -                 --
Project Evaluation/mt.                      3                 3.3                          --                                              2                  1
arehusing                                   1                 I. S                                                                        -- 
Teacer Education                            2                48.0                 -                  2                                    --                 -
School Supeision                           121!             270.0                                   11                                     _                 __
Eduation Ecnamcs                            1                24.0                --                  I                                    --                 --
Edution Evaluation                          1                24.0                I-                  1
Sytuas Analysis                             2                48.0                --                  2
Couter Programmr                            2                24.0                --                 --                                    -                   2
Tests and reasurinnt                        4                 4.3                -_                  I                                     _                  3
Teteok Publishing                           7                 9.8                --                 *-                                    --                  7
Curriculum Oelopmmnt                        2                48.0                 --                 2                                    --
thltilith Operator                          1                 0. S                         -                           --                                     1
Gson     t  elations                        2                24.0                                    2 2                                                     --
Oudanc Counselling                          1                24.0                -                   I                                    --                 --
Technical/Vocational Education              4                62.0                -                   2                                     3--
S-Thtal                                 S1               701.4                 0                 29                                     S                 15
hM1 ity  of Libwea
nlculi  Dvloeant                            1                24.0                  1                -
Scence Education                            1                12.0                -                   I
Educstion AdIn/.9Supervition                                 24.0                  1                --
bi"ss Euation                               2                24.0                --                  2
Ssgrapt                                     1                24.0                 -                  I                                    *
English                                     2                48.0                --                  I                                    -                  --
ktbemttcs                                   1                24.0                -                  --                                    -                  -
Educational Panning                         1                24.0                  1                                                      --                  -
Agriculture                                 1                24.0                 -                  1                                    -
Eenntary Education                          2                48.0                --                  2
Su-TOtW                                  7               276.0                 3                  7                 0                   0                  0
TOtal                                   So               977.4                  3                36                 0                   s                 15
(81.4 staff yur)
T v  terminated after anm mth.
#   One tmnatd  after six moths.



- 37 -                                   Annex 14
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                       Date Planned                  Date Actual
Identification
(Executive Project Summary)                                      December 1979
Preparation                                                      March 1980
Appraisal Mission                   February 1981                March 1982
Credit Negotiations                 December 1982                December 1982
Board Approval                      February 1983              7 December 1982
Credit Signature                                              10 December 1982
Credit Effectiveness                                           3 March 1983
Credit Closing                   31 December 1988             30 June 1989
Credit Completion                30 June 1989                  ( Scheduled )



Annex 15
-38 -
SUPERVISII IISSIQIS
Stage of                Month/              No. of     Days in    Specialization  Performance        Types of
Project Cycle               Year              Persons      Field      Representedi'    Rating          Problems-'
Status2'
Through Approval            1981                  3          NA         E. A. E
Board Approval            7 Dec. 1982
Credit Effectiveness     7 March 1983
Supervision 1               Feb. 1983             2           5         GE. TS              1         M
Supervision 2               July 1983             2           6         E, TS               I         M
Supervision 3               Nov. 1983             3           6         E, TS, GE           1         CF
Supervision 4              April 1984             3           9         GE. E, TS           2         CCC,CF
Supervision 5               Nov. 1984             3           8         GE.E,TS             S         R,CF,CCC,SB
Supervision 6               Mar. 1985             1           4         TS                  2         D,CCC,CF,R
Supervision 7               July 1985             1           3         VTS                 3         CE,NPB
Supervision 8               Feb. 1986             1           6         GE                  2         CF,ST
Supervision 9               Aug. 1987             1           2         GE                  3         CF
Supervision 10              Dec. 1987             1           3         GE                  3         CF
Sub-Total                                      16          52
Completion Mission          Feb. 1988             2          15         GE,A
Total                                          20          47
11 Key to Specialization                    2/ Key to Status                         3/ Key to Problems
A   a Architect                              1 = Satisfactory                         CF  a Counterpart Financing
GE  = General Educator                       2 = Stationary                           M   = Minor problems
TS  - Textbook Specialist                    3 - Improving                            CCC a Compliance with
E   - Economist                              5 = Deteriorating                              Credit Conditions
VTS - Vocational Training                    *      *       *                         CE    Cost Estimates
Specialist                                                                      NPB   Non-PaYment of Bills
ST a Staff Turnover                      0     Disbursements
SO = Sale of Books                       R     Reporting



