Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4010-LBR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
November 16, 1982
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Liberian dollar
US$1.00        =  1.00 Liberian dollar
(US $ is legal tender in Liberia)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Glossary
Basic Data
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..............................................                           1
II.    THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR  .........................                           1
A.    Social and Economic Background  .......................                         1
Population  ...........................................                        1
The Economy  ..........................................                        2
The National Development  Plan  ........................                       2
Economic Prospects ....................................                        3
The Structure of Employment  ..........................                        3
B.    The Education System  .................................                         4
Structure  ............................................                        4
Organization  .........................................                        4
Main Issues  in Education  .............................                       4
C.    The Government's  Strategy for the Sector  ....                  .........      8
External Efficiency .....................                                      8
Planning and Administration of the Education System                            8
Access  .        ..............................................                9
Internal Efficiency and Quality ......................                         9
The Costs and Financing of Education ....                    .............     9
D.    The Bank Group's Role and Other External Assistance  ..                         9
Previous-Bank Group Assistance  .......................                        9
Bank Group's  Strategy for Assistance  to Education  ....                     12
in Liberia
Other External Assistance  ............................                       12
III.    THE PROJECT            .......................        ........................        13
A.    Project  Summary  ......................................                       13
B.  Project Components ............................  13
C.  Project Description ....................                                         15
Educational Planning and Administration and
Preparation of Future Projects  .....................                      15
Tests and Measurements ................................                       16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
Textbook Procurement and Distribution ...........          16
Teacher Training and Upgrading .18
Educational Supervision ..............................   20
School Construction, Equipping, and Furnishing .......   20
VTC/AITB ....................................              21
Commercial Training .............                    .     21
IV.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN             .      .     .       22
Cost of the Project ........ .               ...           22
Financiing Plan .......................................   25
Project Recurrent Costs .....                .             27
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................             28
Project Preparation ............................  .        28
Project Management ......     .............................   28
Working Funds ................................    29
Specialist Services and Fellowships ................. .    29
Sites ................................................     30
Procurement ............ .                ...  30
Disbursements ............................                 30
Accounts and Audits ...................     . ...    31
Evaluation ....................................            31
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .      . ..............................   32
Benefits       .............................................    32
Risks      ................................................    32
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .. .......              33
Annexes
1.  Comparative Education Indicators
2.  Structure of the Education System
3.  Education Pyramid
4.  Cost Summary Table
5.  Financing Plan by Project Component and Category of Expenditure
6.  Summary of Specialist Services
7.  Summary of Fellowships
8.  Implementation Schedule
9.  Schedule of Disbursements
10.  List of Documents in the Project File
MAP  IBRD No. 16544
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Liberia from March 1 to 12, 1982. The mission members were R. Skolnik (economist),
J.C. Laederach (architect), and M. Carroll (consultant on textbooks).



- iii -
GLOSSARY
ADB   -   African Development Bank
AITB  -   Agricultural and Industrial Training Bureau
CBDTC -   Commercial, Business and Domestic Training Center
FTI   -   Forestry Training Institute
IEL   -   Improved Efficiency of Learning Project
KRTTI -   Kakata Rural Teacher Training Institute
LIPA  -   Liberian Institute of Public Administration
MOE   -   Ministry of Education
MPEA  -   Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs
MYS   -   Ministry of Youth and Sports
PIU   -   Project Implementation Unit of Ministry of Education
STC   -   Science and Technology Center
VTC   -   Monrovia Vocational Training Center
WAEC  -   West African Examinations Council
ZRTTI -   Zorzor Rural Teacher Training Institute






- iv -
LIBERIA
BASIC DATA (1980)
Land area                    111,369 km.
Population                   1.86 million
GNP per capita               US$520
Life expectancy at birth   48 years
Literacy Rate                30%
Educational Enrollments
Level              Total        Females as % of Total        Enrollment Ratio
Preprimary           80,215                   42                          -
Primary             147,217                   35                         52
Lower secondary      32,073                   29                         26
Upper secondary      19,602                   27                        17
University            3,987                    -                         -
Teaching Staff
Level                                Total             Student/Teacher Ratio
Preprimary/primary                      6,473                       35/1
Lower secondary                         1,497                       21/1
Upper secondary                         1,129                       17/1
Educational Finance
Central Government recurrent expenditures on education (including the
Ministry of Education, polytechnical college and two universities)
as % of GNP                                             4.6
as % of total Government recurrent expenditures        19.6






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank Group has already financed three education projects in
Liberia, and the Bank Group and Liberia have carried out an intensive policy
dialogue over the last decade. This dialogue has been especially active since
1979 when the Bank Group carried out a review of education and training in
Liberia with the Government and issued an education sector memorandum (Report
Number 2620a-LBR, dated November 16, 1979). The Government and the Bank Group
discussed that memorandum in detail and those discussions served as the basis
for (a) a number of important policy measures taken by the Government in
recent years; and, (b) the identification of the proposed project. The
Government and the Bank Group also reviewed the sector memorandum with other
agencies assisting in the development of human resources in Liberia as a basis
for identifying co-financing for the proposed project. The above matters are
discussed in greater detail below but they are raised here to provide a
clearer context for understanding the origins of the Project.
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A.   Social and Economic Background
Population
2.01      Liberia has a rapidly growing population, estimated at 1.86 million
in 1980, with about 42% of the population below age 15. The annual growth
rate averages 3.3% overall and 8% in urban areas, where about 30% of the
people live. The population is concentrated in the area around Monrovia and
in a broad belt extending from Montserrado County northeast to the border with
Guinea.
2.02      A small proportion of Liberians are descendants of immigrants
of African descent who came from the Western Hemisphere in the 19th century
and settled mostly along the Liberian coast. Most of the population are
from indigenous tribes; the Kpelle, Bassa, Gio, Kru, Mano and Grebo are
numerically the most important and together make up about 70% of the total
population.
2.03      Sixteen local languages, from three major linguistic groups, are
spoken in Liberia, and multilingualism is common. English is the official
language. The majority of the people practice traditional African religions.
Christianity and Islam, each practiced by 10-15% of the population, are
the predominant non-African religions.
2.04      The health and nutrition of the Liberian population is about the
same as in other West African countries, which makes it among the worst in the
world. Life expectancy at birth averages 48 years.



-2-
The Economy
2.05      The modern sector in Liberia generates about 85% of total GDP and is
characterized by enclave industries producing almost exclusively for export.
The largest modern sector activities are iron ore mining, which contributes
about 30% of GDP, and large-scale production of rubber, which contributes
about 5% of GDP. Forestry is also important, generating about 4% of GDP.
2.06      The traditional sector is dominated by subsistence agriculture,
which supports about 60% of the population but contributes only about 15%
of GDP. This sector has little physical infrastructure or access to capital
or improved agricultural inputs. Besides rubber production, the principal
crops grown in Liberia are rice, oil palm, coffee, and cocoa.
2.07      From about 1964 to 1970, the average annual real growth rate of
the Liberian economy was about 6.4%, which was largely a result of the growth
of output of iron ore and rubber. However, from 1970 to 1974 the growth
rate declined to about 4.2% and from 1974 to 1978 to less than 1%, largely
reflecting a decline in the growth of output of these products. Following the
change of Government in April 1980, economic growth was again set back and
real GDP is reported to have declined by 4.7% in 1980 and 5.0% in 1981.
2.08      Average per capita income in 1981 was about US$540.  Income distri-
bution is highly skewed, with 5% of the households receiving about 60% of
total private income.
The National Development Plan
2.09      The First National Development Plan (1976-80) proposed the following
long-term objectives for Liberia's socio-economic development: (a) diversifi-
cation of production, (b) dispersion of sustainable socio-economic activities
throughout the country, (c) greater involvement of Liberians in development
activities, and (d) equitable distribution of the benefits of economic growth.
Performance under this Plan fell short of expectations: investment was below
the original target and one-fourth of total expenditure during the Plan period
was for facilities and buildings for the Organization of African Unity (OAU)
conference, which was not included in the original Plan.
2.10      The new Government, which assumed power in April, 1980, reaffirmed
the broad objectives of the First National Development Plan and began work on
a program of public investment covering the period 1982-86. The main thrust
of the Government's present economic policy is to expand the country's produc-
tive capacity, especially in agriculture, and to ensure that benefits from
economic growth and development are enjoyed by an increasing number of
Liberians. The Government is also giving high priority to investments in
human resources, which are likely to account for about 20% of the proposed
investments in the new Plan.



-3-
Economic Prospects
2.11      The Government's financial position deteriorated dramatically over
the last two years, mainly because of unrestrained Government spending during
a period of declining revenues from iron ore. At the same time, the cost of
implementing projects in the 1976-80 development plan increased from about
US$415 million to US$585 million, and the Government was forced to postpone
allocations for several projects. It has also entered into several agreements
with the International Monetary Fund and has twice received debt relief from
the Paris Club.
2.12      In the next few years, the Government will need to reduce its
recurrent expenditures and will depend heavily on external borrowing to
finance its capital budget. The medium-term economic prospects for Liberia
are clearly dependent on the strength of world demand for Liberia's main
exports, and on the Government continuing over the next few years to imple-
ment a number of recently adopted adjustment policies. These include:
reducing the size of the budgetary deficit, restraining new commercial
borrowing, mobilizing greater savings, attracting new foreign investment,
maintaining an open economy, and improving overall economic management.
Although Liberia has very severe short-term liquidity problems, restoration
of economic growth should be possible if the Government continues to follow
the course outlined above.
The Structure of Employment
2.13      About 60% of the population depends for its livelihood on sub-
sistence agriculture. The number of people in wage employment or who are
self-employed totals about 150,000. There is little reliable data on the
number working in the informal sector or on those who are unemployed.
2.14      The largest wage-employing sector is monetary agriculture, forestry
and fishing, which employs about 51,000 people, or 34% of total monetary
sector employment. The majority of those employed are rubber-tappers working
for concessionnaires and locally owned large farms. The Government employs
about 26,000 people, equal to 17% of total monetary sector employment. The
mining sector provides work for about 14,000 people, who make up 9% of total
monetary sector employment and work almost exclusively for concessionnaires.
2.15      There are about 6,100 registered expatriate workers, representing
4% of monetary sector employment. About 70% of these workers are in mana-
gerial, professional and technical occupations, The number of unregistered
alien workers is estimated to be more than 30,000, but there is little informa-
tion on their employment.
2.16      In terms of occupational classification, about 15,000 people are
engaged in managerial, professional, and technical occupations other than
teaching, and 9,000 are teachers. About 60,000 are clerical, sales or
service workers. Of the more than 300,000 people employed as agricultural or
production workers, about 15,000 are skilled and 45,000 are semi-skilled
workers.



-4-
B.   The Education System
Structure (see Annex 2)
2.17      The formal education system in Liberia offers one or two years of
pre-primary education and six years of primary education, followed by three
years of lower secondary and three years of upper secondary education. Most
university-level programs require four years of study. Agricultural, voca-
tional and technical training programs are of varying duration and are offered
at lower, middle and upper levels.
Organization
2.18      The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for the operation of
the pre-primary, primary and secondary school programs.  The MOE also oversees
two rural teacher training institutes, a polytechnical institute and several
vocational training programs. The University of Liberia and Cuttington
University College, both autonomous institutions, are responsbile for their
own university-level education. The Ministry of Youth and Sports (MYS)
plays an important role in the operation of lower- and middle-level vocational
training.  The Agricultural and Industrial Training Bureau (AITB) is responsi-
ble for coordinating the training conducted by various public and private
institutions.
2.19      Under the authority of the appropriate Government agency, conces-
sions, proprietary groups, and non-governmental organizations provide education
and training of all types and at all levels. About 35% of the primary school
places, 40% of the lower secondary places and 45% of the upper secondary
places are privately operated. Several vocational training programs and
Cuttington University College are private also. The Government generally
provides financial assistance to privately operated educational programs and
the cost of doing this is considerably less than if the Government were to
fully finance those programs itself.
Main Issues in Education
2.20      The Government has made substantial progress during the past two
decades in improving access to education and in establishing education and
training programs to meet priority manpower requirements. From 1968 to 1980
for example, enrollments in pre-primaryand primary schools increased from
120,000 to 228,000 and lower and upper secondary school enrollments increased
from 13,000 to 52,000. These are equal to average annual growth rates of 6%
at the primary and 12% at the secondary level. In addition, the Government
tripled the annual output of trained primary school teachers, established
agricultural training programs for lower- and middle-level personnel, and set
up vocational and technical training programs for all levels.
2.21      Establishing a wider base for education and training, however, is
only a first step in meeting the demand for literate and skilled manpower
in the 1980s and beyond. Despite the tremendous growth in enrollments, the
gross enrollment ratio at the primary level is only about 52%. Furthermore,



the education system is highly inefficient and characterized by low-quality
institutions unable to produce sufficient numbers of qualified graduates in
key manpower areas.
2.22      Thus, the main issue facing the education system is how the Govern-
ment, in this period of financial constraints, can improve the efficiency and
quality of the system while simultaneously continuing to expand access to
primary education. This issue is broken down into its major components and
discussed below.
2.23      External efficiency.  There are three main problems concerning the
external efficiency of the education and training system in Liberia.  First,
Liberia will not be able to raise the income levels of rural people signifi-
cantly without raising their level of knowledge and their skills; hence, the
rural population needs to have better access to basic education. Second, the
quality of education and training programs has been low, and, partly as a
result, the productivity of Liberian workers is generally much lower than
desirable. Thus, there is a pressing need to upgrade the quality of many
education and training programs. This is particularly true for a number of
middle-level service occupations such as clerical, secretarial, and book-
keeping work, and for industrial craft skills such as carpentry, masonry,
electrical, and plumbing work. While the education system produces a suffi-
cient number of graduates per year to meet employer demand in all of these
areas, the quality of the graduates is lower than that required by many
employers who either hire the graduates for a lower level job than that for
which they were trained, or hire expatriate workers for the required position.
Finally, the education system does not produce enough graduates to meet the
demand for some specific skills. This is especially true in the professional
fields of engineering, medicine, and secondary school teaching.
2.24      Planning and administration of the education system.  In recent
years the Government has considerably improved the planning and administra-
tion of the education system. Under three Bank Group assisted education
projects, for example, educational, university, and manpower planning units
were established and then strengthened. In addition, the MOE was reorganized,
many operating procedures were improved, and numerous MOE staff were upgraded
in administration, accounting and procurement, as well as in a variety of
technical areas related to the Ministry's role. Finally, the Government
recently established the AITB (para. 2.18) to coordinate training activities.
2.25      The base from which these improvements were made, however, was
extremely weak and further improvements in a number of areas is a prerequisite
for improving the quality and efficiency of the education system. First,
the Government needs to better coordinate educational planning and manpower
planning. The Ministry of Planning is not yet playing the role intended for
it in manpower planning and, as a result, there is room for improving the
collection and analysis of manpower data, the linking of proposed investments
with manpower requirements, and the monitoring and evaluation of investments
in education and training. Second, the MOE still has a number of important
weaknesses in its work in general administration, accounting, and personnel
administration which hamper its efficient achievement of educational objec-
tives.



-6-
2.26      Access to education.  As mentioned in para. 2.21, the gross primary
school enrollment ratio is only about 52%, which is below the average for
West Africa. Moreover, access to education varies widely; for example, the
primary school enrollment ratio ranges from 30% in Bong CouniLy to more than
60% in three other counties. Although there are no formal barriers to school-
ing for girls, their enrollment ratios are disproportionately low at all
educational levels, declining relatively as one moves to the higher levels
and into rural areas. Girls constitute less than 40% of total primary school
enrollments and only about 25% of primary school enrollments in most rural
areas. In addition, girls make up only about 30% of total secondary school
enrollments.
2.27      Between 1969 and 1979, enrollments in lower secondary education
increased at an average annual rate of 12%, and the progression rate from
primary to lower secondary school is now about 75%. Both of these rates are
very high by West African standards and very high in light of the Government's
financial capacity. Hence, it might be more equitable and efficient to slow
the growth of enrolLments in secondary education and to use a relatively
larger share of the MOE's resources to expand primary education. It might
also be more efficient to direct a larger share of the resources allocated to
secondary education toward qualitative improvements rather than toward the
expansion of secondary education.
2.28      Quality and internal efficiency.  The internal efficiency and
quality of the formal education system are low. For each group of 1,000
students who enter pre-primary school, only about 600 reach Grade 1, 250
reach Grade 6, 175 reach Grade 9, and 90 graduate from upper secondary school.
More than half of those who enter pre-primary school leave before acquiring
basic literacy. The low efficiency of the system is reflected not only in
wastage but also in the extent to which remedial programs are offered at every
level; this is particularly true in mathematics and science.
2.29      A major cause of the low quality of education is the lack of text-
books, educational equipment, and other teaching materials. More than 60%
of the students have no textbooks of any kind. In addition, fewer than 15%
of the students have access to laboratory equipment for science or expendable
materials for industrial arts. Finally, throughout Liberia, there are schools
without adequate school furniture and simple equipment such as blackboards,
chalk, erasers, and audio-visual teaching materials.
2.30      Under the Second Education Project (Loan 1266T-LBR), the Government
has begun to improve its capacity for developing and printing educational
materials, but so far few new materials have been put into use. This is
primarily because of the Government's difficulty, until recently, in resolving
policy issues relating to textbooks, such as the role of private publishers and
printers, means of selecting texts, and a financing plan for a textbook program.
In addition, the Government was unable to establish a textbook procurement
and distribution system or a program for training teachers how to use textbooks.



2.31      Another factor contributing to the low quality of education is the
shortage of well trained teachers. Although the annual output of trained
teachers for the primary level has increased over the past few years to about
250, the present output is about 100 less per year than the number required
to sustain a 5% rate of growth of enrollments at the primary level, as the
Government plans. In addition, the Government has not been able to establish
an effective in-service program to upgrade teachers. About 30% of the primary
school teachers have not completed secondary school and only about 30% of all
primary teachers have had pedagogical training. Furthermore, qualified
primary and secondary school teachers are unevenly distributed; about 50% of
those who have had pedagogical training are teaching in Monrovia.
2.32      Improving the system of educational supervision is also important,
especially in view of the poor qualifications of the teaching staff and the
general lack of textbooks. The Government has made a start in this direction
under the second project by creating a new supervision framework based on
three geographical regions, but supervisory staff are still centralized in
Monrovia, with little logistical support for field staff, and there are not
enough trained supervisors for staffing a decentralized supervision network.
2.33      The Government, under the Second Education Project, did upgrade
the staff of the Testing Division of the MOE. However, in recent years, the
Liberian Branch of the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) has taken over
the work of that division, and other testing and evaluation work, as well.
WAEC lacks the equipment, materials and staff necessary to work effectively,
and further improvements in educational testing will require linking the pre-
paration of examinations more closely with curriculum development, strength-
ening the work of the Liberian Branch of the WAEC, and providing teachers with
better training in testing and evaluation procedures.
2.34      Education cost and financing.  In terms of the costs and financing
of education, the Government is following a number of sound policies. First,
there is a long tradition in Liberia of encouraging private sector participa-
tion in education and training (para. 2.19). Second, Government has always
asked parents to contribute to publicly supported education through the
provision of land for schools, the payment of modest school fees (recently
eliminated), and payment for textbooks, uniforms, and copybooks. Third, the
Government has tried over the last few years to to reduce excessive public
subsidies per student at some private institutions, to allocate foreign
fellowships more closely in line with manpower requirements and the ability
of students to pay for their own education, and to introduce additional cost
recovery mechanisms into the education and training system.
2.35      Despite these positive measures, a number of cost and financing
issues continue to confront the education sector. First, the Government has
not provided sufficient recurrent financing to publicly-assisted education
and training programs. The Government's recurrent expenditures on education
over the last decade have been low relative to the expenditures of other West
African countries and have averaged about 14% of total Government recurrent
expenditure and 3% of GNP.  Second, funding for textbooks, equipment and other
teaching materials has been inadequate, averaging only about 2% and 2.5%,



-8-
respectively, of the recurrent unit cost of primary and secondary education.
Finally, the relatively low public expenditure on education is heavily biased
toward post-secondary education, to which about 25% of the total public
expenditure on education has been allocated over the past few years. While
even some of the post-secondary programs lack adequate *financing, this pattern
of expenditure is not consistent with the priority the Government has assigned
to other areas of education and training.
C.   The Government's Strategy for the Sector
2.36      The Government's strategy for education and training is set out
in the First National Development Plan (para. 2.09) and the National Educa-
tion Plan (1978-90). The Government aims to focus on (a) qualitative improve-
ments, (b) the development of vocational and technical education to meet key
manpower requirements, (c) the strengthening of educational planning and
administration, and (d) the expansion of primary education. The specific
objectives of the Government's educational policy and the means by which it
seeks to realize those objectives are noted below and related to the issues
discussed in paragraphs 2.20 to 2.35, above.
External Efficiency
2.37      The Government plans to improve external efficiency primarily by
improving the quality of education and training programs, by upgrading teachers,
and by providing educational materials. The Government would address quality
issues for the primary level mainly through the proposed project and for the
secondary level through a program it is now developing. In regard to manpower
requirements at the middle level, the Government will'selectively expand
enrollments in key areas and put more emphasis on science and technology in
general education. Government will also try to make several newly established
institutions for industrial training fully operational and consolidate and
upgrade publicly supported commercial training, the last part of the training
system in need of reorganization. These aims would also be addressed through
the proposed proj'ect. The Government is financing largely on its own a
university development program which focuses on improving the efficiency'of
the university and on critical manpower needs at the higher levels for science,
engineering, medicine and education. The proposed project, however, would
help the university to plan the next phase of development of its teacher
education programs.
Planning and Administration of the Education System
2.38      The Government plans to continue strengthening manpower planning in
conjunction with UNDP/ILO assistance with manpower and demographic survey
work. It would also improve manpower planning and the operation of skill
training programs by mobilizing the newly created AITB more fully through the
proposed project (para. 2.18). The Government also hopes, through the proposed
project, to improve the institutional capacity of the MOE by strengthening its
work in planning, administration, and'educational supervision.



-9-
Access
2.39      The Government plans to continue increasing access to primary
education as rapidly as feasible, while aiming at a growth rate of enrollment
of about 5% per year. On the one hand, the Government will finance a modest
school construction program, such as the one that would be included in the
proposed project. On the other hand, the Government will continue to encourage
private school building efforts. The Government will address issues of
regional and sexual equity by focusing expansion efforts in those areas of the
country which are the least well served. The Government plans to slow the rate
of expansion of secondary education.
Internal Efficiency and Quality
2.40      The Government will make a concerted effort to improve the quality
of education and training programs in order to improve internal as well as
external efficiency. In addition to taking the measures noted in para. 2.37,
the Government, through the proposed project, will strengthen the educational
inspectorate and the educational examinations system. The Government will
also begin in the next school year to eliminate publicly supported preprimary
education, which has proved to be highly inefficient.
The Costs and Financing of Education
2.41      The Government plans to continue the measures it has begun recently
to bring private education subsidies per student more closely in line with
public education subsidies per student (para. 2.34). It also intends, partly
through the proposed project, to: (a) continue mobilizing community participa-
tion in school building and maintenance; (b) establish new cost recovery
methods throughout the education and training system; (c) lower the unit costs
of facilities and educational materials by improving their design and/or the
means by which the Government procures them. Taken together, these measures
are expected to increase the financial resources available to the Government
for education, and to reduce the costs to the public of future education
investments.
D.   The Bank Group's Role and Other External Assistance
Previous Bank Group Assistance
2.42      Over the past decade, the Bank Group has been the largest supplier
of funds for education and training in Liberia, providing US$17.5 million
for the three education projects undertaken so far (para. 1.01), and more than
US$10.0 million for project-related training. The three education projects
aimed broadly at (a) improving the Government's capacity for planning and
administering manpower development; (b) improving access to education in rural
areas through the construction of primary schools in those areas and through
an adult education program; (c) improving the quality of education through



- 10 -
assistance for curriculum development, educational publications, testing and
evaluation, and teacher training; and (d) making education and training more
relevant to the country's manpower requirements through support for expanded
training in agricultural, forestry and vocational skills.
2.43      The First Education Project was financed by Credit 305-LBR for
US$7.2 million, which became effective in November 1972 and was closed on
December 31, 1979. The main objectives of the project were to construct,
furnish and equip two diversified secondary schools and a college of agricul-
ture at the University of Liberia, and to expand, equip, and furnish a teacher
training institute. The project also aimed at developing the Government's
capacity for educational, university, and manpower planning, project manage-
ment, and secondary school administration.
2.44      The Project Performance Audit (Report No. 3345, dated February 25,
1981) concluded that the project met most of its enrollment objectives and has
had a positive impact on the development of manpower and educational planning
and project management. These objectives were accomplished with a cost
overrun of about 6% and a time overrun of about 40%.
2.45      On the less positive side, the project-financed facilities were
constructed to a lower standard than planned at appraisal due to unanticipated
cost increases. In addition, while the secondary schools constructed under
the project are operating high quality general education programs, they are
not effectively carrying out the vocational and agricultural programs which
they planned. This is primarily due to changing and unclear objectives of the
practical streams and weak links between curricula for those streams and the
rest of the education system.
2.46      The Second Education Project is being financed by Loan 1266T-LBR
for US$4.0 million, which became effective in July 1976. The project was
completed by the revised Loan Closing Date of August 31, 1982, about two
years behind schedule. The main components of the project are (a) the con-
struction, equipping and furnishing of 40 primary schools in rural areas;
(b) the expansion of a teacher training institute; and (c) institutional
development in curriculum development and textbook preparation, educational
planning and administration, testing, and adult education.
2.47      The project has achieved most of its physical objectives.  The
teacher training institute was expanded as planned, and 38 of the primary
schools were built, the smaller number due to higher than anticipated costs.
In addition, the technical assistance and fellowship programs have been fully
implemented and as a result the MOE has been reorganized and its planning,
curriculum development, administration and project management capabilities
improved.
2.48      The project, however, has been less successful than planned in
three important ways. First, the primary schools are not making use of the
special facilities provided for "practical subjects" and are not generally
serving as a base for adult education, both of which were intended initially.



- 11 -
Second, the impact of the project on the administrative capacity of the MOE,
while substantial, has been less than intended due to a lack of coordination
between the fellowship and technical assistance programs and a failure to
spread the results of the work of the technical assistance specialists more
widely in the MOE. Finally, the textbook component was not fully implemented
due to continuous shifts in Government policy and failure to deal with some
policy questions until recently (para. 2.30).
2.49      The Third Education Project is financed by Loan 1417-LBR for US$6.3
million, which became effective in July 1977. The project is expected to be
completed by the revised Loan Closing Date of December 31, 1983, about two
years behind schedule. The main objectives of the project are: (a) to
establish science and technology centers (STCs) at four secondary schools,
(b) to establish a new Forestry Training Institute (FTI), (c) to establish a
new Vocational Training Center (VTC), and (d) to establish an Agricultural and
Industrial Training Bureau (AITB).
2.50      Most project elements have been implemented satisfactorily, although
with delays of one to two years caused largely by late construction site
changes and financial difficulties faced by the Government during the past
year. The AITB, the FTI and the VTC are operating and three of the four
science centers will be ready to operate over the next few months. The
construction of the fourth STC was delayed considerably by site problems but
it should be ready to operate fully at the beginning of the next school year
in March 1983. The FTI component, in particular, has been fully implemented
and the institute is already achieving most of the objectives which were set
for it.
2.51      The main problems facing the project are that the AITB and the VTC
will not be fully operational by the end of the project. The main reasons
for this are that: (a) the initial contractor for the VTC and AITB defaulted;
(b) the subcontractor for the VTC who was to finish the civil works suffered
financial losses as a result of the 1980 coup and took much longer than
planned to complete his work; (c) the supplier for the VTC sent used equipment
to Liberia which was not specified, instead of new equipment as specified; and
(d) technical assistance specialists, who were recruited in accordance with
the initial progress of civil works and the supply of equipment, were forced
by the problems which arose to help the Government deal with the above issues
instead of being able to help get the institutions operating as planned.
Hence, the AITB and VTC need additional assistance if they are to meet the
objectives set for them under the Third Education Project.
2.52      Overall, the three education projects have aided the development of
education and training in Liberia considerably. They have had a positive
impact on enrollments in the areas they have addressed. They have also had a
substantial impact on developing the technical and administrative capacity of
the MOE, and on helping Liberia to address manpower requirements at all levels,
particularly in the fields of education, agriculture, forestry and industrial
skills. Furthermore, the implementation time for these projects has been
about 25% less than for comparable projects elsewhere in West Africa. The
experience gained in implementing the projects also points out a number of



- 12 -
lessons: (a) given the narrow base from which it has started, the institu-
tional development of the education system will require long-term assistance;
(b) any attempt to establish a textbook scheme will have to be based on a
comprehensive program and should not depend on the MOE for printing services;
(c) education projects can best be implemented through decentralized manage-
ment through normal agency channels with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
coordinating all financing, procurement, and accounting activities.
Bank Group's Strategy for Assistance to Education in Liberia
2.53      Over the long term, the Bank Group should provide further assistance
for institutional development, qualitative improvements at all educational
levels, the expansion of access to primary education, and the strengthening of
middle-level and professional programs, such as those providing commercial,
industrial, agricultural and teacher training. Since this assistance over the
next decade will be in the context of severe fiscal constraints, the Bank
should give high priority to improvements in efficiency.
2.54      Over the short term, the Bank Group's assistance should focus
on improving the quality and efficiency of education and training programs
and on continuing to support a sustainable growth rate in primary school
enrollments. With enrollments at all levels of education and training having
increased enormously during the past 20 years, the success of the education
system now depends primarily on the Government's making its education and
training programs more efficient.
Other External Assistance
2.55      In addition to the World Bank, USAID, the EEC, and the African
Development Bank (ADB) have also provided substantial financing for manpower
development in Liberia. USAID is financing a pilot project aimed at develop-
ing low-cost instructional materials and training para-professional primary
school teachers. USAID is also financing important training programs in the
agricultural and health fields. The ADB is financing a project to develop
lower secondary education in the rural areas of southeastern Liberia. The
EEC is financing the development of a technical college and project-related
training in a number of sectors.
2.56      Non-governmental aid agencies have also been active in assisting
manpower development in Liberia. For example, construction teams working
under CARE built the rural primary schools financed by the Second Education
Project and CARE also made an important financial contribution to that project.



- 13 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Summary
3.01      The proposed project aims at consolidating the outcomes of the three
previous Bank Group assisted education projects and helping the Government
implement the next phase of a sound development program for education and
training. The main objectives of the project would be to assist in strength-
ening the administration of education, improving the quality and efficiency of
primary education, expanding access to primary education, and making key parts
of the publicly supported skill training network fully operational.
3.02      The accomplish these objectives, the project would finance:
(a) an institutional development program for the MOE and the
West African Examinations Council;
(b) the procurement and sale of about 1.9 million low-cost textbooks to
primary school students during the life of the project;
(c) the upgrading of about 2,250 primary school teachers and
the strengthening of the university department of education;
(d) the strengthening of the educational inspectorate and the
construction of three regional education centers;
(e) the establishment of 6,624 primary school places;
(f) the furnishing and equipping of 180 existing primary school
classrooms;
(g) the strengthening of the AITB and VTC; and
(h) the consolidation of three existing training centers into a
new 215-place commercial training center.
B.   Project Components
3.03      The project would be implemented during the six-year period
1983-88, and would consist of the following components:
Part I: Institutional Development
(a) Educational planning and administration and preparation of future
projects. Technical assistance, auditing services, fellowships,
equipment, vehicles, and operating costs to strengthen the MOE's
capacity for educational planning, administration, project prepara-
tion and project management; and



- 14 -
(b) Tests and measurements. Technical assistance, fellowships, equip-
ment and vehicles to strengthen the Liberian branch of the West
African Examinations Council (WAEC).
Part II: Primary School Development
(a)  Textbook procurement and distribution.  Technical assistance,
fellowships, office equipment and furniture, and the purchase of
textbooks and transportation services to execute a textbook program
for the primary level;
(b)  Teacher training and upgrading.  Technical services provided by
the two universities in Liberia to upgrade about 2,250 primary
school teachers. To help the University of Liberia to better
carry out its teacher training work, the project would finance
equipment and pedagogical materials, fellowships, and technical
assistance for the University's Department of Education;
(c)  Educational supervision.  Technical assistance and fellowships
to strengthen the school inspectorate. The project would also
finance the construction, furnishing, and equipping of three regional
education centers and related costs of construction supervision; and
-(d) School construction, furnishing and equipping. Construction,
furnishing, and equipping of about 24 new primary schools in rural
areas and the related costs of construction supervision. The
project would also finance the furnishing and equipping of about 30
existing primary schools which are now without adequate furniture
or equipment.
Part III: Skill Training
(a)  AITB and VTC.  The project would finance technical assistance
to strengthen the AITB. To make the VTC fully operational, the
project would finance some minor civil works, technical assistance,
and consumable teaching materials; and
(b)  Commercial training.  Architectural fees, construction, equipment,
furniture, technical assistance, and fellowships to establish
a new 215-place commercial training center in Monrovia.



- 15 -
C.   Project Description
I.   Institutional Development
Educational Planning and Administration and Preparation of Future Projects
3.04      To assist in further strengthening the work of the MOE in educa-
tional planning and administration, in project preparation, and in project
management, this project would finance: office equipment, vehicles, 10.5
staff-years of technical assistance, 24 staff-years of fellowships, the cost
of local consultant services to carry out about 20 training workshops,
auditing services, and operating costs related to project management. This
component follows up on the institutional development component of the Second
Education Project (paras. 2.46-2.48).
3.05      A project-financed specialist in educational administration (4.5
staff-years) would help the MOE to improve its record-keeping and operating
procedures, particularly for accounting, procurement and personnel management.
The specialist would also assist the MOE in coordinating the technical assis-
tance and fellowship programs. In addition, a project-financed team of
consultants from the University of Liberia and a project-financed specialist
in training would help the MOE to organize and conduct, over a three year
period, about 20 workshops to train staff in improved operating methods in
these critical fields. This in-service training would be complemented by 14
staff-years of fellowships in accounting, procurement and personnel management.
3.06      The specialists in administration and training, with the help of
the university consultants would also assist in strengthening the MOE's
planning bureau and would conduct workshops to improve MOE work in school
location planning, cost analysis, and evaluation. The project would also
finance 4 staff-years of fellowships for two MOE staff in fields related to
educational planning.
3.07      To facilitate the operation of the workshop program, the Government
gave assurances during negotiations that it would furnish to IDA for review by
March 31 of each project year (a) a list of proposed workshop topics, course
outlines, and participants for the following school year, and (b) an evaluation
of the workshops conducted during the preceding 12 months.
3.08      The MOE needs equipment to satisfactorily maintain planning,
accounting, and personnel information on a satisfactory basis. To address
this need, the project would finance the purchase of accounting equipment and
a microcomputer. A project-financed specialist in microcomputer applications
(3 staff-years) would help the MOE to further improve its record-keeping and
to establish a computerized information system for educational planning and
administration. The project would also finance 6 staff-years of fellowships
in fields related to computing for four persons who would work with the MOE
Planning Bureau after their return from training.



- 16 -
3.09      To improve the administration of education projects, the project
would also finance the work of independent auditors who would assist the PIU
in establishing accounts for the proposed project and improving PIU accounting
practices and would also carry out five annual audits. The project would also
finance office equipment and vehicles for the PIU and some of the operating
costs associated with the management of the project. To assist in developing
future education projects, the project would finance 2 staff-years of services
of educational and architectural specialists.
Tests and Measurements
3.10      The project would finance equipment, about 2.5 staff-years of tech-
nical assistance, and about 8 staff-years of fellowships to strengthen the
Liberian branch of the West African Examinations Council (para. 2.33). To
improve the quality of the teaching force, some of this assistance would be
directed toward developing an examination which would be used to recruit
teachers. To help the MOE to identify educational priorities, the Council
would also assess the results of the secondary school entrance and leaving
examinations by school and region during the project.
II. Primary School Development
Textbook Procurement and Distribution
3.11      To establish a national textbook program for the primary grades,
the project would finance the procurement of textbooks and related teachers'
editions, the cost of transporting the books to sales agents, office equip-
ment and materials, 3 staff-years of technical assistance, and 6 staff-years
of fellowships.  The program would be carried out in two parts:  (a) a pilot
phase from July 1, 1982 until April 1983; and (b) a four-year implementation
phase aimed at establishing an ongoing national textbook program by the end of
the project.
3.12      The textbook program's aim will be to provide low-cost textbooks
which conform to the Liberian curriculum. The program would be implemented
along the following lines:
(a)  The Government would invite publishers to submit textbook proposals
for specific grades and subjects which meet a set of minimum
criteria described in the invitation;
(b)  In accordance with these criteria, the Textbook Committee would
pre-qualify publishers on the basis of textbook proposals they
submit;
(c)  The Government would then procure textbooks for particular subjects
and grades on the basis of international competitive bidding among
the pre-qualified publishers;
(d)  The textbooks would be sold at a set price through commercial
agents representing the MOE in all counties in Liberia, in numbers
proportionate to each county's share of total primary school
enrollments;



- 17 -
(e) The sales price would be set at the cost of the book to the Govern-
ment plus about 25 cents;
(f) The program would ultimately be self-financing: all revenues
would be put into a special interest-bearing account from which
the next round of textbooks would be purchased; and
(g) The stock and flow of textbooks and funds would be audited
independently twice each year.
3.13      During the program's pilot phase, the Government aims to sell about
110,000 textbooks for English, mathematics, and social studies to about 30%
of the students in Grades 1-3. The Government would purchase books for the
pilot phase only by negotiating prices with the publishers of books which the
Textbook Committee has selected from the approved Government book list. All
other aspects of the pilot phase would be as noted in (d) to (f) above.
3.14      During the implementation phase of the program, the Government
plans to procure and sell inexpensive editions of about 1.8 million existing
textbooks to students in Grades 1-6 for English, mathematics, science, social
studies and reading. This represents one book per subject each year for
about 66% of all students attending primary school. Given the fact that a
market in used books will probably develop, almost all primary students
should be able to buy either a new or used book by the end of the project for
their five key subjects, at a cost per book of 50-75% less than the cost of
the few books available now.  The total value of textbooks purchased under
the project would be about US$3.5 million, including contingencies.
3.15      Since the program would be set up on a self-financing basis and
the number of textbooks purchased would increase each year, the project
includes about US$2.1 million for purchase by the Government of textbooks
during the pilot phase and during the first three years of the implementation
phase.  The Government's textbook fund would finance the cost of purchasing
textbooks thereafter from the revenues it has collected.
3.16      The MOE has already appointed a Textbook Committee (para. 3.12).
To carry out the day to day operation of the textbook program, the Government
has established a textbook office within the MOE and has staffed it with a
qualified local textbook officer and an accountant. The project financed
specialist (2 staff-years) began his work in Liberia in September, 1982 under
PPF financing and will assist the textbook officer in carrying out the procure-
ment process, arranging purchase and distribution, maintaining accounts for
the textbook program, and monitoring the operation of the program. The
project would also finance 1 staff-year of consultant services to be spread
out over the last three years of the project. The purpose of these con-
sultancies would be to help the MOE to follow up further on the above textbook
program areas of operation. The project would also finance 4 staff-years of
fellowships to train local staff in textbook publishing and related areas and
2 staff-years of fellowships to train one MOE staff member in curriculum
development.



- 18 -
3.17      In view of the lack of experience in Liberia with the operation
of a textbook program and the desire to create a self-financing scheme,
the Government gave assurances during negotiations that it would: (a) estab-
lish by January 1, 1983 for the textbook fund a special interest bearing
account in a bank acceptable to IDA, and would review with IDA the mechanisms
for operating the textbook fund; and (b) furnish to IDA by June 30 and
December 31 of each project year independent audits of the use of funds
and textbooks for the program. The audits would be carried out twice a year
since most books will be sold at the beginning of the first and second
semesters. The IDA credit would finance the audit fees.
3.18      As noted earlier (para. 2.55), USAID is financing a pilot project
(Improved Efficiency of Learning - IEL) in the development of programmed
learning materials. These materials will be prepared for Grades 1 to 6 over
the next two years and then evaluated in comparison with other materials. The
Government, USAID, and IDA will work closely together to examine the extent
to which IEL materials are shown over time to be cost-effective as the main
materials or as supplementary materials for Grades 1 to 6. In the meantime,
the Government, through the proposed IDA project, would establish a system of
textbook procurement and teacher training that could be used with a variety of
learning materials the Government might purchase or develop over the next
decade, including IEL, if that should be the case.
Teacher Training and Upgrading
3.19.     The project would finance the upgrading of about 2,250 primary
school teachers, equal to about 35% of the total number of primary school
teachers, and help to establish an institutional arrangement within the MOE
for continuous in-service teacher training.  The upgrading courses would be
conducted at the four institutions in Liberia where teachers are trained:
the University of Liberia, Cuttington University College, and the Kakata and
Zorzor Rural Teacher Training Institutes (KRTTI and ZRTTI). Each university
would be responsible for its own courses and for the courses which would be
held at the teacher training institute closest to it. The MOE would negotiate
contracts with the two universities for delivery of the training services,
which would be financed under the project.
3.20      In consultation with the MOE, a team of educators from the above
institutions would prepare detailed programs of study based on a curriculum
for in-service teacher training which the MOE produced in 1980. Special
attention would be given to the use of textbooks. Educational supervisors
would participate in all of the in-service courses to ensure more relevant
training and to promote improved relations between the inspectorate and the
teaching corps.



- 19 -
3.21      The courses would be offered for two months each year, during the
long school vacation, with total outputs over a four-year period, as follows:
Minimum
Qualifications           Exit          Total
Institution                   for Entry          Certificate       Output
University of Liberia       Lower secondary           "B"           210
Cuttington University       Upper secondary           "B"           420
College
KRTTI                       Lower secondary           "C"           560
ZRTTI                       Upper secondary           "C"         1,060
To encourage broad participation in the programs, the participants would
be given free room and board, a weekly stipend of $7, and a travel allowance
for one trip to and from their teaching post. The cost of these incentives
would be included in the contract for delivery of the training programs.
3.22      To allow the University of Liberia to play a more effective role in
pre-service and in-service education of teachers for both primary and secondary
schools, the project would finance pedagogical materials, 26 staff-years of
fellowships, and 1 staff-year of technical assistance for the University's
Department of Education (W.V.S. Tubman Teachers' College). The fellowships
would be used to train four university staff members to the Ph.D. level and
two to the M.A. level. In addition, the University would recruit five prospec-
tive staff members and train them to the M.A. level. The university plans to
use these fellowships, therefore, as a basis for increasing the number of
staff of the Department of Education from 15 to 20 and the number of students
in that department from about 300 to 400.
3.23      The provision of pedagogical materials would allow the University
to improve its training programs in primary and secondary education and would
complement the training materials purchased by the University under the First
and Third Education Projects (Cr. 305-LBR and Ln. 1417-LBR). The project-
financed specialist (1 staff-year) would be a university facilities planner.
He would help the University of Liberia to review in light of present economic
constraints its long range development plan which was produced under the First
Education Project (para. 2.43). He would also help to review plans for
program development and relate them to future needs for facilities at the new
University of Liberia campus in Fendell, particularly facilities for the
Department of Education.
3.24      To assist the MOE to better plan and execute teacher training
programs in the future, the project would finance 6 staff-years of fellowships
to train three MOE staff to the M.A. level in teacher education and guidance.



- 20 -
Educational Supervision
3.25      To help strengthen the school inspectorate, the proiect would
finance the construction, furnishing and equipping of three ragional education
centers and would also provide equipment, 1 staff-year of specialist services
and 16 staff-years of fellowships. The fellowships would be used to upgrade
eight of the present county and district school supervisors through courses
offered at the M.A. level. The project-financed specialist in educational
supervision would assist in reviewing the organization and operations of the
inspectorate. In addition, at least two of the workshops included in the MOE
institution-building component (paras. 3.04-3.09) would aim at upgrading the
performance of the inspectorate staff.
3.26      One regional educational center would be constructed in each of the
three educational supervision regions which were established under the Second
Education Project. They would assist the MOE in decentralizing some of its
administrative and supervisory functions. The centers would have office
space for the Regional Chief Supervisor, a District Officer, a County Officer,
and staff responsible for statistics, personnel and procurement. A Regional
Materials Center which has been assisted by UNICEF and the U.S. Peace Corps
and which is developing simple learning materials such as audio-visual aids,
would also be housed in each center. Finally, each center would have a small
conference room where supervisors would conduct regular works'hops for school
principals and teachers. The Division of Educational Facilities of the
MOE (DEF) is designing the centers and would supervise their construction.
The project would finance the cost of this work, including office supplies,
vehicles for site supervision, and the salaries of clerks of works.
School Construction, Equipping and Furnishing
3.27      The project would finance the construction, equipping and furnishing
of 24 primary schoo:Ls. Taking account of lessons from the Second Education
Project (paras. 2.47-2.48), each school would have six classrooms of 46 places
each (a total of 276 places), a storage room, a principal's office, an outdoor
kitchen, and two outdoor toilets.
3.28      The Government plans over time to:  (a) replace dilapidated primary
schools; (b) replace expensive rented facilities with permanent school
buildings; (c) increase access to primary schools; and (d) equalize access to
primary education throughout Liberia. To assist in addressing these objec-
tives, 19 of the schools, with 5,244 pupil places, would replace rented or
dilapidated structures which now house about 4,000 pupils. Five schools,
with 1,380 places, would be built in areas where there is now no primary
school. Project-financed schools would be built in rural areas of each county
in numbers proportionate to each county's share of primary school enrollment.
This component would allow primary school enrollment to grow by about 2,600,
or about 1%. The project would finance a total of 6,624 student places, equal
to about 3% of the present number of primary school places.



- 21 -
3.29      The schools would be built by private contractors.  However,
as in the second project, the communities in which the schools are to be
built would provide at least 25 acres for the school site and its garden and
would also be responsible for clearing the site and maintaining the school on
a regular basis. The DEF has designed the schools and would supervise their
construction and the project would finance this supervision work, including
office materials, vehicles, and the salaries of clerks of works.
3.30      The project would also finance the furnishing and equipping of
about 30 existing schools which are also located in rural areas. Furniture
and equipment would be provided to schools that have adequate buildings
but lack satisfactory furniture and equipment.
III. Skill Training
VTC/AITB
3.31      VTC.  The project would finance minor civil works, a stock of con-
sumable materials, 3.5 staff-years of technical assistance, and 2 staff-years
of fellowships to make the Vocational Training Center financed under the Third
Education Project fully operational (para. 2.51). The civil works include
the fencing of the VTC/AITB campus and the installation of security bars on
windows. Project-financed specialists in apprenticeship programs and in
electrical training (18 staff-months each) would assist VTC staff in launching
the center's program of study. A project-financed equipment specialist would
make two visits of three months each to assist in improving the VTC's capacity
to install, operate and maintain equipment. The project-financed fellowships
would upgrade four VTC assistant instructors who are not yet formally trained
in their field. The project would also finance the consumable materials
required for the center's full operation during the life of the project.
3.32      AITB.  To assist in strengthening the AITB (para. 2.49) the project
would finance 36 staff-months of technical assistance. One specialist in job
analysis and trade testing, (18 staff-months) one in supervisory training (6
staff-months), and one in agricultural training (1 staff-year) would help the
AITB to launch its activities in these areas. The project would also finance a
modest amount of office equipment and materials and technical books for the
AITB.
Commercial Training
3.33      The project would finance architectural fees, construction, furni-
ture, equipment, vehicles, 5.5 staff-years of technical assistance and about
6 staff-years of fellowships to establish a new 215-place Clerical Business
and Domestic Training Center (CBDTC) in Monrovia. The center would consoli-
date the activities of three publicly supported training centers which operate
low quality and extremely inefficient programs in inadequate and rented
facilities. The new center would be under the authority of the Ministry of
Youths and Sports which will work closely with the Liberian Institute of
Public Administration in its operation.



- 22 -
3.34      The CBDTC would offer both pre-employment and in-service training
in the following occupations: cooking and housekeeping, bookkeeping,
accountancy, and clerical and secretarial work. Courses offered by the
domestic section would be 10 months in duration and oriented toward making
students with a Grade 9 education more literate and employable as cooks and
housekeepers in the service sector. The program would build upon a program
that the M4YS has been conducting successfully for the past few years in one
of the centers to be consolidated into the new center. Courses offered by
the clerical and business section would comprise one to two years of training
and would serve both the public and private sectors. The center would
initially operate only in the mornings, but afternoon and evening courses
would be added after the main program has been well-established. The initial
enrollments and annual output of the center would be as follows:
Field of Study        Enrollments    Annual Output
Clerical                  135               65
Bookkeeping                40               24
Domestic Studies           40               36
3.35      To assist in establishing the new center, the project would finance:
(a) an expert in business and clerical training for 3 staff-years; (b) an
expert in domestic studies for 2 staff-years; and (c) a specialist in office
practice for .5 staff-years. About 4 staff-years of fellowships would be used
to train four Liberians as instructors of clerical, business and domestic
science subjects, 2 staff-years of training would be used to upgrade 8 senior
teachers of the CBDTC who already have suitable formal training, and 3 staff-
months of study tours would be used to upgrade the three center administrators.
3.36      To help recover some of the costs of the commercial training
program, students from the private sector would pay fees commensurate with
those charged by privately operated training centers. The.Government gave
assurances during negotiations that it would submit to IDA by June 30,
1983 a proposed fee structure for the new center and proposals for handling
and accounting for the fees. The Government also gave assurances during
negotiations that it would: (a) cease to operate commercial and domestic
science courses at the Eugenia Simpson School, the National Clerical Training
Center, and the Commercial and Domestic Training Center when the new CBDTC is
ready to operate; and (b) transfer sufficient staff from the other centers to
the CBDTC to carry out effectively its training programs.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Cost of the Project
4.01      The net-of-tax cost of the project is estimated at US$25.1 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$18.6 million. The breakdown of cost
by project component is summarized below and shown in detail in Annex 4. The
Government would waive all identifiable taxes and duties on project-related
goods and services.



- 23 -
ESTIMATED COST BY PROJECT COMPONENT
(In US$ million) (1 US$ = 1 Liberian $)
% OF
COMPONENT                            LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL    BASE COST
I.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Planning and Administration          0.7        2.6         3.3           17
Tests and Measurement                0.1        0.6         0.7            3
II.  PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT
Textbook Procurement and
Distribution                       0.1        2.8        2.9           15
Teacher Training                     0.2        1.9         2.1          11
Educational Supervision              0.3        0.8         1.1           5
School Construction and
Furnishing                         2.5        3.3        5.8           29
III.  SKILL TRAINING
AITB/VTC                             0.2        1.1         1.3           7
Commercial Training                  0.7        1.8        2.5           13
TOTAL BASE COST                             4.8       14.9       19.7         100
Physical Contingencies                     0.4        0.7        1.1           6
Price Increases                            1.3        3.0        4.3          22
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          6.5       18.6       25.1         128
4.02      The estimated costs by category of expenditure are shown below and
are given in greater detail in Annex 4.



- 24 -
ESTIMATED COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(In US$ million) (1 US$ = 1 Liberian $)
% of Base
Category of Expenditure           Local      Foreign        Total        Cost
Civil Works                        3.2          2.6          5.8          29
Furniture                          0.2          1.3          1.5           7
Equipment                          0.1          1.4          1.5           8
Professional Fees                  0.1         0.1           0.2           1
Technical Assistance               0.8         5.0           5.8          29
Fellowships                        0.0         2.1           2.1          11
Textbooks                          0.0          2.1          2.1          11
Operating Costs                    0.4         0.3           0.7           4
Base Cost                          4.8        14.9          19.7         100
Physical Contingencies             0.4         0.7           1.1           6
Price Increases                    1.3         3.0           4.3          22
Total Project Cost                 6.5        18.6          25.1           -
4.03       The base cost estimates for civil works are for December 1982.
These estimates are based on the unit cost of construction contracts in
1981 for similar buildings. The estimated base cost of new construction,
furniture and equipment.to be financed under the project is shown below:



- 25 -
Base Cost for Civil Works
(US$)
Cost per                Cost per
Type of Construction               Square Foot            Pupil Place
Regional Education Centers             35.00                    -
Primary  Schools                       25.75                  518.00
Commercial Training Center             36.00               3,883.00
Base Cost for Furniture and Equipment
(US$)
Type of Institution             Furniture per Student    Equipment per Student
Primary School                            50.00                        8.00
Commercial Training Center               637.00                    1,130.00
These base costs for construction, furniture and equipment are comparable
to those for similar institutions in the rest of the region. The net-of-tax
base cost of technical assistance is estimated at US$10,500 per staff-month,
including salary, allowances and overhead, and is based on recent recruitment
experience of the Government and international organizations.
4.04      The project includes contingency allowances of 10% for civil works,
furniture, textbooks and equipment. The overall allowance for price escala-
tion is about 22% of base cost plus physical contingencies. This is calculated
on the basis of the following annual price increases over the project imple-
mentation period, for all expenditure categories:
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Local Costs         12        10       9        8       8        8
Foreign Costs        8       7.5       7        6       6        6
4.05      The estimated foreign exchange component of US$18.6 million repre-
sents about 74% of the total net-of-tax project cost of US25.1 million. As
a percentage of total costs this has been calculated as follows: civil works
and professional fees, 45%; equipment and furniture, 90%; textbooks, 100%,
technical assistance, 85%; fellowships, 100%, and operating costs, 30%.
Financing Plan
4.06      An IDA credit of Special Drawing Rights 12.6 million (US$13.5 million)
and a grant of 9 million ADB Units of Account (about US$9.8 million equivalent)
from the African Development Bank would finance the project in parallel, as
shown below.



- 26 -
Financing Plan 1/
(In US$ million) (1 US$ = 1 Liberian $)
Component              Total Cost         IDA           ADB        Government
Institutional                  4.0           2.8           0.4           0.8
Development
Primary School
Development                 11.6           4.6           6.8           0.2
Skill Training                 4.1           3.4            -            0.6
Total Base Cost               19.7          10.8           7.2            1.6
Physical Contingencies         1.1           0.4           0.7           0.1
Price Contingencies            4.3           2.3           1.9           0.1
Grand Total                   25.1          13.5           9.8           1.8
Foreign Exchange              18.6          12.1           6.2           0.3
4.07      Under this financing plan, IDA would provide SDR 12.6 million
(US$ 13.5 million) toward financing the following components: planning and
administration, including auditing but not including any other assistance for
the PIU; tests and measurement; textbook procurement and distribution;
teacher training; AITB/VTC; and commercial training.
4.08      The African Development Bank would provide 9 million ADB Units of
Account (about US$9.8 million equivalent) to finance the education supervision
component, the school construction and furnishing component, and assistance
for project management.
4.09      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 12.6 million (US$13.5 million)
would finance about 54% of the total net-of-tax cost of the project. The
credit would finance 100% of the foreign exchange costs and 35% of the local
costs of the components which IDA is financing. The total external financing
would cover about 93% of the total net-of-tax cost of the project. The
Government would provide US$1.8 million, equal to about 7% of the total
net-of-tax cost of the project.
1/ See Financing Plan by project items in Annex 5.



- 27 -
Project Recurrent Costs
4.10      The project-assisted programs, at full operation in 1988, would
add about US$.8 million per year in 1981 US dollars to the Government's
annual recurrent budget. This would be equal to about 1.5% of the total
1981-1982 Government recurrent budget for the Ministry of Education, the
University of Liberia, and the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The breakdown of
these costs would be as follows:
Estimated Net Incremental Recurrent Costs by Component
(In US$ Thousands)
Incremental Recurrent Costs Per Year
Component                                 at Full Operation
Planning and Administration                                  100
Tests and Measurement                                         15
Textbook Procurement and Distribution                        100
Teacher Training                                               0
Educational Supervision                                      150
School Construction and Furnishing                           400
AITB/VTC                                                       0
Commercial Training                                            0
Total                                                   765
4.11      The impact of the project on future recurrent expenditures would be
relatively small for several reasons. First, the project would not directly
produce any increase in recurrent expenditures for the VTC and AITB over that
which was to result from the Third Education Project. Second the teacher
upgrading program would produce additional costs only to the extent which
Government continues the program after the project. Third, the university is
stabilizing its recurrent budget and any growth in enrollment in the Depart-
ment of Education would largely be offset by a reduction in enrollments in other
departments. Fourth, the Government would recover most of the cost of the
textbook program from students. Finally, the consolidation of three highly
inefficient commercial training centers into the new CBDTC and the collection
of student fees would produce a small savings each year for publicly supported
commercial training.
4.12      The project should also lead over the long term to economies in
the use of funds through improvement of MOE administration and planning. In
addition, establishing mechanisms for cost recovery through the operation of
the textbook program and the commercial training center should help to set a
foundation for other cost recovery mechanisms and to increase the revenues
available for education and training in Liberia.
4.13      Given the likely short-term and long-term impacts of the project on
recurrent expenditures, the Government should be able to provide the recurrent
funds which will be required to operate project-financed institutions satisfac-
torily. To ensure that adequate budgets are provided, the Government, during



- 28 -
negotiations, gave assurances that it would furnish to IDA by June 15 of
each project year the proposed recurrent budget for primary education, the
textbook program, the AITB, the VTC, and the CBDTC.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Preparation
5.01      Project preparation is being financed by PPF advances totalling
$800,000 and is very advanced. The Government's Project Preparation and
Coordinating Committee prepared the educational programs for the project with
the assistance of private consultants and ILO specialists. MOE architects
are carrying out architectural work for the project-financed primary schools
and regional centers. A private consultant-architect is preparing designs
for the commercial training center.
5.02      The Government has prepared educational specifications for all
project components, bidding documents for primary school construction and for
the regional education centers, and sketch designs for the commercial training
center. The Government had already received bids for the construction of
primary schools and the ADB has approved the proposed contract awards.
Construction of the schools should begin in December 1982, when the ADB loan,
which has already been approved by the ADB Board, should become effective.
The Government has also prepared detailed equipment lists for each project
component and signed a contract for the technical assistance to the MOE. The
pilot textbook scheme began in October, 1982 and the leader of the team of
specialists who will work with the MOE and the textbook specialist have
started their assignments under PPF financing. In addition, several MOE
staff who will return to work in key project areas began fellowship training
in September, 1982. Project management arrangements are fully in place.
5.03      Bidding documents will be ready prior to credit effectiveness for
all project-financed construction. This construction should be completed
by mid-1987. Candidates for the first year of the fellowship and technical
assistance programs have already been identified, and specialist services and
fellowships would continue to the middle of 1988. The Closing Date of the
IDA credit would be December 31, 1988.
Project Management
5.04      The MOE, the MYS and the University of Liberia would manage their
own components of the project, in the manner used satisfactorily to implement
the Third Education Project. The Deputy Minister of Education for Planning
and Development would be responsible for the MOE components, the Deputy
Director of the MYS for Training would oversee the MYS components, and the
Vice President for Administration of the University would oversee the Univer-
sity's components.



- 29 -
5.05      The project would be coordinated on a day-to-day basis by the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Education, which has
successfully managed the three previous Bank-assisted projects and the pre-
vious project assisted by ADB. The PIU is headed by a Project Director and
has a Deputy Director for Accounting and a Deputy Director for Procurement.
The PIU would be responsible for liaison with IDA, project accounting, and
coordinating the implementation of the construction, procurement, technical
assistance and fellowship programs.
5.06      The PIU would be responsible for purposes of this project, to the
inter-agency Project Coordinating Committee (para. 5.01), which the Government
established in 1980 to prepare the proposed project. The Committee has
oversight and advisory roles. The Committee is headed by the Deputy Minister
of Planning and is composed of the Project Director, the Deputy Minister of
Education, the Deputy Director of the MYS, the Vice President of the Univer-
sity, and the Director of Educational Facilities of the MOE.
Working Funds
5.07      To facilitate project management, the Government would establish
for the project a working fund of US$200,000 in the National Bank of Liberia,
to be called the "Project Account." The fund would be used to finance small
project-related expenses and the Government's share of counterpart funds for
the project. The Government and IDA should agree during negotiations on the
detailed procedures for operating the fund. In addition, establishment of
the fund would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit and the
Government gave assurances during negotiations that it would replenish
the fund on a quarterly basis.
5.08      A working fund of US$300,000 financed from the IDA credit to be
called the "IDA Special Account," would also be established in the National
Bank of Liberia to finance goods and services purchased locally. The Govern-
ment would open this fund as a condition of effectiveness. The fund would be
operated along the lines of funds established for other projects in Liberia,
and IDA and the Government agreed during negotiations on procedures for its
operation. One of this fund's goals is to reduce the amount of time required
to pay contractors and suppliers and, thereby, to reduce prices. Contractors
and suppliers would be asked in bidding documents to discount invoices paid
within 30 days.
Specialist Services and Fellowships
5.09      The project would finance a total of about 29.5 staff-years of
technical assistance and 102 staff-years of fellowships. During negotiations
the Government gave assurances that it would: (a) appoint technical assis-
tance specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference are
acceptable to IDA; and (b) award fellowships for programs acceptable to IDA
to suitably qualified candidates who will serve at least two years in the
positions for which they were trained.



- 30 -
Sites
5.10      The Government has legal title to the site of the commercial
training center and the regional educational centers.  The Government has
selected the sites for the project-financed primary schools and is in the
process of signing contracts with the communities involved concerning their
providing 25 acres for the schools and clearing the sites. Contracts have
been signed so far for more than half of the sites. To avoid electrical and
water connection problems which have occurred in previous projects, the
Government will furnish evidence to IDA that there is an adequate supply of
water and electricity at the CBDTC site as a condition of disbursement.
Procurement
5.11      Civil works valued at US$1.35 million and furniture and equipment
valued at US$0.9 million would be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Furniture and
equipment which cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$75,000 equiva-
lent, or which are not suitable for international competitive bidding would be
procured in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to IDA. For items va:Lued below US$15,000 and for which potential suppliers
are limited, bids would be obtained by inviting quotations from at least three
reliable suppliers whenever possible. The total value of items procured by
these methods would not exceed US$300,000. For all contracts estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, IDA would review bidding and bid
evaluation documents before the contracts are awarded. This would be about
90% of the total number of contracts to be financed by IDA. Technical assis-
tance specialists would be recruited in accordance with Bank Group guidelines
issued in August 1981. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment
would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing
imports or the total applicable customs duties and taxes, whichever is lower.
5.12      The Government would procure textbooks valued at about US$100,000
for the pilot program by negotiating with the publishers of texts the
Government has selected from the MOE-approved book list (para 3.13). The
Government would procure textbooks during the implementation phase valued at
about US$2.0 million through international competitive bidding from among
pre-qualified publishers (para. 3.14).
5.13      The Government would procure goods and services financed by the ADB
in accordance with the relevant guidelines of that agency.
Disbursements
5.14      The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against the items
to be financed as follows:
(a) 70% of total expenditures for civil works,
architectural fees, and furniture                        US$1,000,000;
(b) 100% of total expenditures for textbooks,
textbook distribution, and equipment                     US$3,400,000;



- 31 -
(c) 90% of total expenditures for technical
assistance and fellowships                                US$6,300,000;
(d) 100% of the initial deposit in the Special
Account                                                     US$300,000;
(e)  100% of the withdrawn PPF funds                             US$800,000;
(f)  the unallocated amount would be                           US$1,700,000.
5.15       Disbursements have been estimated on the basis of the schedule of
implementation summarized in Annex 8, taking into account the time Government
is likely to need to prepare and process withdrawal applications. The
disbursements profile (Annex 9) also reflects country-wide experience in
Liberia and region-wide experience with education projects in West Africa.
All disbursements from the credit account would be fully documented.
Accounts and Audits
5.16      The Project Implementation Unit would establish accounts for the
project, in accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures.
To help strengthen the PIU's accounting work, the IDA credit would finance:
(a) technical assistance from an independent auditing firm prior to credit
effectiveness to assist the Government in establishing a suitable accounting
system for the project; (b) annual audits by an independent auditing firm;
and (c) additional periodic technical assistance to the project accountant as
a follow-up to the annual audit (para. 3.09). During negotiations the
Government gave assurances that: (a) the project accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and the audits would be conducted
annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied; (b) the audit reports would be of such detail as IDA may reasonably
request, and will include the auditors' opinions on the project accounts; (c)
it would provide IDA with such other relevant information concerning the
account and the audit as IDA may reasonably request; and (d) the accounts and
audit reports would be submitted to IDA for review within six months of the
close of the Government's fiscal year. As noted earlier, the Government would
also submit to IDA separate audits of the textbook program twice a year (para.
3.17).
Evaluation
5.17      The Project Director would submit quarterly progress reports to IDA.
Given the importance of the textbook component and the lack of experience with
textbooks in Liberia, the Government gave assurances during negotiations that
it would (a) submit to IDA by August 31 of each project year, an annual report
eveluating the implementation of the textbook program; and (b) submit to IDA
by December 31, 1987 an evaluation of the impact of the textbook program on
the educational achievements of primary students, carried out in accordance
with a research design satisfactory to IDA. The Bureau of Planning of the MOE
would be responsible for this evaluation and the specialists working with MOE



- 32 -
and the WAEC will assist the Government in carrying out these activities.
Finally, the Government gave assurances during negotiations that it would
submit a project completion report to IDA within six months of the completion
date of the project.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      Improving the quality of primary education, teacher education and
commercial training and expanding access to primary education would yield
important economic benefits over the long term including: (a) improved worker
productivity; (b) availability of an increased number of skilled workers to
meet priority manpower requirements; and (c) greater opportunities for employ-
ment and self-employment among graduates. In addition, improvement of the
quality of primary education and commercial training would increase the
efficiency of these types of education and training by reducing dropout and
repetition rates, which would lead to lower costs per graduate. Finally,
the project is important in economic terms because it would assist the
Government in establishing cost-recovery mechanisms for several education and
training programs.
6.02      The main educational benefits of the project would be an increase
in the numbers of qualified primary school teachers and in the number of
textbooks in use in the education system. The project would upgrade the
qualifications of about 2,250 primary teachers, and increase the number of
books available for the primary level each year from about 20,000 to 400,000.
Another important benefit of the project would be the improvement of about
4,000 primary school places and an increase in the number of primary school
places by 1,380. The project would also improve considerably the quality of
commercial training in Liberia.
6.03      The project should have a positive effect on women and on the rural
poor. First, the increase in the number of places in primary schools in rural
areas will encourage an increase in the enrollment of women and the rural poor
at the primary level. Second, the poor, for the first time in Liberia, will
have access to affordable textbooks for primary education.  Third, a large
portion of CBDTC students will be women, and the training offered by the CBDTC
should considerably improve their prospects for employment.
Risks
6.04      The main technical risk to the project is that the lack of experience
in using textbooks may hamper the successful implementation of the textbook
scheme. A related risk is that the educational supervision and teacher
training components may not be sufficiently coordinated with the textbook
component and therefore these investments may not have their desired impact.
These risks have been addressed by ensuring that each component has been
prepared in detail prior to appraisal and by ensuring that project design



- 33 -
takes into account the lessons of previous Bank-assisted education projects in
Liberia. Potential problems would also be addressed through the use of
technical assistance specialists in a few key areas related to the above
components.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01       During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a) it wouid furnish to IDA for review by March 31 of each project
year (i) a list of proposed workshop topics, course outlines and
participants for the following school year, and (ii) an evaluation
of the workshops conducted during the preceding 12 months (para.
3.07);
(b) it would establish by January 1, 1983 a special interest bearing
account for the textbook fund in a bank acceptable to IDA and would
review with IDA the mechanisms for operating the textbook fund
(para. 3.17);
(c) it would furnish to IDA by June 30 and December 31 of each project
year independent audits of the use of funds and textbooks for the
textbook program (para. 3.17);
(d) it would furnish to IDA by January 30, 1983, a proposed fee
structure for the CBDTC as well as proposals for handling and
accounting for the fees (para. 3.36);
(e) it would (i) cease to operate commercial and domestic courses at
the Eugenia Simpson School, the National Clerical Training Center
and the Commercial and Domestic Training Center when the new CBDTC
is ready to operate; and (ii) transfer sufficient staff to the new
center from the old ones to carry out effectively the CBDTC train-
ing programs (para. 3.36);
(f) it would furnish to IDA by June 15 of each project year the proposed
recurrent budget for primary education, the textbook program, the
VTC, the AITB, and the CBDTC (para. 4.13).
(g) it would replenish the project working fund on a quarterly basis
(para. 5.07);
(h) it would (i) appoint technical assistance specialists whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms of reference are acceptable to IDA;
and (ii) award fellowships to suitably qualified candidates for
programs of study acceptable to IDA who will serve at least two
years in the positions for which they were trained (para. 5.09);



- 34 -
(i)  the project accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and the audits would be conducted annually
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied and submitted to IDA for review within six months of the
close of the Government's fiscal year (para. 5.16);
(j)  it would (i) furnish to IDA by August 31 of each project year
an annual report on the implementation of the textbook program in
the preceeding school year; (ii) furnish to IDA by December 31,
1987 an evaluation of the impact of the textbook program, carried
out in accordance with a research design satisfactory to IDA (para.
5.17); and
(k)  it would furnish to IDA, within six months of the project's
completion date, a completion report on the entire project (para
5.17).
7.02      As conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit, the Government
should have (a) established the Project Account, (para. 5.07), and should have
(b) established the IDA Special Account (para. 5.08).
7.03      As a condition of disbursement for civil works for the CBDTC the
Government should have furnished evidence to IDA that there is an adequate
supply of water and electricity at the CBDTC site (para. 5.10).
7.04      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project con-
stitutes a suitable basis for the proposed IDA credit of SDR 12.6 million
(US$13.5 million) to the Republic of Liberia.



-35-
Page 1 of 2
OCTOBER.25, 1982-
*   .       1    ~      ~ :CENTRAL:I                               1          1                   
*           ,          .~~~~~~ GOVT.:                              I          I      II:
I           I           EXP. ON?                                   I          IPRI. 'RECURRENT'                       ISEC.
*                   ~~~~~~~~~EOU. AS: EDUCATION    ;LITER-    PRI. ICOMPLE- :STU- SUNIT COSTtPROGRESS-: SEC. :STU- IHIGHER:
*  .     .          .5~~~~:  TTL,   RECURRENT    lACY   IENROLLITION       IDENTSIPRIM. ED.? ION RATE :ENROLL?DENTS:ENROLL:
GNP/ I   BNOP   ?CENTRAL:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO IRATE FORIPER  :88 I GNP/:FROM PRI. IRATIO :PER  :RATIO 
&ASEIPOP'   :CAPITA: DEVOTED: GOVT. I           TO:       1(3 OF  I NET  :PRI.SCH. :TEACH- CAPITA   :TO SEC.   I NET  :TEACH- GROSS:
YRIMILLS.?  (US$11 TO EDU.: ESP.   IF'RI. SEC. HI.?ADULTS): (Z1  :CYCLE(ZIIER                               (3:    )  I (01   :ER   1  0
U(1979):(1979):                     I                !(1976)                      I       I
(1)      (2):   (3)    I  (4)I           (51           (6>  1)7)   1(8)    1(911   (10)    I  (11)    I(12) 1(13) 1(14)
DIEVELOP'ED COUNTRIES
AUSTRALIA       80  14.6   8,870   6.38         1.4.6                bO- --10A   1031     100        21      --         99         73      13     2 0.910
CANADA          81  23.7   9,650A  7.7A         18.5AY 309' 34A'  239' 99   106X             100        21      199' 100              92X     18     22.60X
GERMANY,  F.S. 79  61.4  12,220    4.6           9.98                      SP----    8A  1008                        1008- OO    94A     ---    12.10A
NETHERLANDS    79  14.1  11.084   7.9            5,1    20   35       25   990    96          95        15      15.3       99         82      13     12.40
NEW ZEALAND   SO   3.2   6,081   5.5W           13.4   37   31        28   99   100          100       24       11.6     100         92       15     25.80X8
SWEDEN          79   8.3  12,863   9.0          18.2   31    10       10   99A   990         100        189     19.9      100         79X     10AY  36.50AY
EASTERN AFRICA
BOTSWANA        80   0,88       72DB  6.3P      19.3   48   28        15    358    94         74        32      22.0       33**      20       18      1,10
BURUNDI         81   4.1        235    2.89W    19,0    41    35      23   25      250        35        37      22.6       12          35     17      1.00
COMOROS         80   0.49       260   6.5W      25,4   40   28        14   ---   991          65        45      16.0       58        215      30      1.40
DIJIBOUTI       81   0.3       460   5.4        10. 6 60   40         .    10      32         ---      41       ---        60          a      19      0.50
ETHIOPIA        80  3 1,:0 E    1308  2. 2F     11.1A  52   32        14    15     38         ---      59       19.0       ---         9      4lA     5.10
RENYA           79  11,3       390O   5.9W      18.08  71    15       14   45      92         74       40       15.8       41         19      28      1.00
LESOTHD         80   1,3       410P'  4 39'     21.0   51   24        25   52      64         61       49B       4.0       64        17       21      0.90
MADAGASCAR      77   8,5       330   4.0W       24.0    53   28       19   50      9480       33       558       8.0       38        14       23      3.1080Y
MALAWI          81    6.18   12308  3.4         10,28  38    14       25   258   62           23       61        5.8,    12            4BX   21       0.40
MAURITIUS       79   0.9   1,080    6.SY        17,58   50   26        6   ---   820          99       20RY    19.5        90        7385    2780    1.568
RWANDA          80   5.08       2008  3.2       21.3    62   17       11   238,   575         62       40       14.0        6          4K     13      0.40
SOMALIA         78   3.8       IOSA  2.0W       11.0   55    10       21   508    2680        --       278      20.4      5389         480    168     1.00
SUDAN           78  17.9       450   4.5W       19.9   48    36       16   208    50BX        74       358Y   46.7         33        1680Y  198       1.07Y
SWAZILAND       78   0.5       650    7,1W      12.2 36    33         18    658   8080        49A      3580      7.7       668       33800   209      2.00
TANZANIA        80  18.5       260   5,9        17.7   47    10       16   798    988         87       21       11.0       198         3      20A     0.018
UGANDA          80  12.68       3008 ---        16.1W  238  378    208  48         54X        61       34       --         17          5      23      0.60
ZAIRE           78  27.5       210A  6.0W       22,0   49   26        25    15     840        44       425      ---       41         13X    27        1.1080Y
ZAMBIA          80   5,78E    5668  4.5P'    11,1    48    23         22   448    95          80       48       12.9       19        16       22      1.50
ZIMBABWE        S1    7.78      700B  5.1       19,5   62   32         6   448    90          55       39       20.0      8r         15       23      0.50
WESTERN AFRICA
BENIN           79   3.48      3208  6.5W       35.0   43   21         5   118    42          30       46       14.0       30        11       43      1.000
CAMERODN        78   8.2        590   2.90y    16.00Y 338  438    208  --    740              458      50Y      11.88      20A       140      26      1.30Y
C.A.R           79   2.2        280    3.880    20.680----- -------                       ---          65AY                -------                    0.70AY
CHAD            76   4.4        320   2.481WY  21.78             --    --15    250         -       77       --         --          310    21      0.20Y
CONGO (8)       79    1,5       670   9.0AWY  27.7AY--0                        - --      -       56BY     --         30         --      4380    4.0080
GA8BO           77   0.6    3,420    3.780        840                          --    --  -- ---  -4680    --         --          -      1980    2.80AY
GAMB IA         77   0.6        220    3.3AW     6.58   46   258       68   108    4080       908      2780    44.78       40         12810   12
GHANA           76  11.3        400   4.00      15.58- -- --    ---    718XY                 --       278Y     --         ---       368KVY  2 1
GUINEA          07   .3: 3. 1270. I4.389'   20.08  308  318    308  20             348KV      168      398      31.10      6BA        158X0  24       5.1080
IVORY COAST   81    8.28   10708 10.0           45,0    33   46       13   308    60          06       43       26.0       47        15AXY  26        1.9080
LIBERIA         90    1.9      520   4.6        19,6    43   23       24   30      52         32       35       20.0       76        22       20      2.90
MALI            77   6.78       1808  4.28      21.78  458  378    188  10         288XY      --       4380 Y    .         50A         60     ---     0.9080
MAUR ITANIA     783   1.68      3208  5.5       16.9    33   43       25    178    32         60        44      52.0       30          9      2 5     0,37
NIGER           78   5.2        300   4.3AY   16.680 52A  439          5A   8      17         568      418      38.78      40          2      248E    0.200
NIGERIA         77  82.6        910   4.10       9.6----- ---- --                             --        -----              ---       lOST    25       0170
SENEGAL         77   5.5        450   5.0       23.0   46   34        20   10      34800      ---      438T     --         20       110       21      2,2080
SIERRA LEONE  77   3.4          250   4.08      16.08----- --158   370                        ---      35       25,08      84        150      22      0.6080Y
TOGO            78   2.4        400   6.50W   26,50   30A  288    219  18          74         40       5480    38.0        52        32800   488      1.6080
UPPER VOLTA   78   5.6          180   3.08W    19,380 31   16                      1180- SB   23       5380    52.5'       19          39KV   25      0.02Y
LATIN AMERICA AND TNE CARIBBEAN
ARGENTINA       78  27.3   2.210   2.7          10.9   438  318    188  938   89              52       17       --         87        31        8     23,00
BAHAMAS         79   0.2   2,770   5.7          19.1   36   36        11   938    99          97       24       -         97         75       19     --
BARBADOS        78   0.2   2.680   S.5AWY  22.19  438  318    168  998  1000                  998      270      19.99      998       780      200     -
BOLIVIA         80   5,4        550   4.1AY   30.58              --  --63      740        ---      20Y       -         ---       150      ---    12.60Y
BRAZIL          79 116.5    1,770    3.8B        62.2  51    -- 14   76            73AY       --       2380      4,58      61*       1580    1480   12.628
CHILE           76  10.9    1,890    3.28       13.08                 --    --119800     --       3480     --         ---       55800   2080   11.908Y
COLOMBIA        80  26.78  1,1808  3.3          25,0    35   20       20   818i   78          36       32        6.6      ---        47       20     10.02AY
COSTA RICA      80   2.28   1,8108  8.4         31.1    40   27       33   90      93         77       33        5.5       77        40       27     14.00
CUBA            78   9.8         ---  8.0       11.0            --    --96    112800Y    98         1880    --         98        71800   15      19.028Y
DOMINICAN REP 78   5.3    1,030   2.10          13.90            --    --67    ---        ---                -------                      -- --
ECUADOR         80   8.48  3,110   6.09'    36.7    45   31           16   81    105          --       36       12.6      86         47       36     29.00
EL SALVADOR   77   4.4          640   3.480    23.18Y 64    8l    27   62          82800      32        39      --         41        26800   2780    7.90B0
GUATEMALA       78   6.8    1.010    I.790    12.68                         --    -- 69800  ---   358Y0     -         69        15800   1980    5,500
GUYANA          76   0.83       630   8.180    13.880                       --    -- 99800  --    328Y   ---          ---       598XY  ---       3.DO8Y
HAITI           80   5.08       230   3.4VW       7.980 65      9      6   2.38   50          20        41      19.        628        48      27      0.80
HONDURAS        78   3.6        520   3.580    14.380 628  158    198  60          89800      30A      4180    12,88       688A       2110y   19      8,000
JAMAICA         80   2.1    1,110   6.5         13.7   37   43        20    90     98         98       40        2.3       95        81       22      80
MEXICO          80  65.5    1.880   4.7         17.08  46   39        15   92      98         53       44        9.5       86        56       17     1,0.300
NICARAGUA       78   2.68       6108  3.08W    14.08             --  --908    8580        24        378      -         ---       2680    30B8     _
PANAMA          78   1.88  1,5508  5.58WY  21.880Y 428  118    13   828    9580Y              ---      2580    11.6        85A       5080Y   2780   20.40BY
PARAGUAY        79   3.0    1,140    1.4W       14.2    42    17      20   84      83         32       28        3.1R      76        22       12      0.70
PERU            80  16.6    0,000   3.68         14.3    53    15     19   80      83         56        39       9.8       89        39       22     14.40Y
TRINIDAD I T. 77    1.1   3,910   4.88            8.880 48   32       20   95      98         91        30      10.1!      49        62       24     --
URUGUAY         78   2.9   2,500   2.5            9.48                94      10580                 248                 -        64BX --         17.8080
VENEZUELA       78  14.4   3,440    5.10         18.98           --  --82    10680X       --        28      --         ---        3880    17     21.10Y



A                        7,     t
.     .    .     .    .     .    .     .    .    .     .  .    .    .     .    .    .    .  .     .    .    .    .     .
A   m                  A                                                                                                                                                                                                             .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
2  A
N %
zm                                                                                                                                                                                         7
2  2 s   g                                                                       19
-8.9
-imp
I
g PH
RV
OF
. . . . . . . . . . . .



- 37  -
AXI= 2
LIBERIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
THE STRUCTURE OF MAJOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMS 1981
Prprlnery       Pimwy Ed.             Se5ndary Ed.      Post-condarv Ed.
hidwoity of Uberle
Arts, Hrmtenitie, Sciece
swclol Scienes
JG&NERAL
'C.tflgton UnWislty Coall
AM, $4wneolt.. Sc"ce.
SC.old ciene. Theology
Uniwrslty of Liberia
Coilep o                              LEGAL EDUCATION
Uniorityalf LUbei
College af EngIneeingTEH LG
W.V.S. Tubni,en Colleg of             EDUCATION
Unlwnslvy oLiberia,
Medical Colleg
WO{l  ~~Cutd   Urn&_it CduW
School of Nuorng                      HEALTH
EDUCATION
Vao  Djeonw Numwni Cd_k
Varo' e Pror   for Tchnc
-     . Admonts, ,dwiOe
pow      Norm
UnivasitV, of Lmisen
Colle of Agratoum   nd
Fo_tren                               AGRICULTURE
EDUCATION
ia0                Cutdtn Unywisit
Rurl DeOeoknent Inltitu
U-LO  rulty of Lberba
Collep of Aprloe Nd
Foretry                               FORESTRY
EDUCLATOM
Form,y Trenirng Irstitut
Fort Range Trlining
WnLirsity of Libneb
|             ~ ~~~Tee_. Codleg
c,ttleglon Untaty Coleg               TEACHER
Naft:                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ed.estlon Depetotntn  EDLUCATbON
The Lian Education S5sm do. not control entrance by e..                                                K.R.T.T.I.
Inclucl rneW pop     now bing   bld nd 0_cha    In                                                     ZR.T.T.I.
thee prope    novla beIng rognized.
tkei.ty of Uberi
Budne. Admn init.etkm
bUlil111011 AND
SenIor                       NedonP l Carco School rw  5ECI_ AL
beondey                       Donosotic end CononeolW                OLUrATION
1                     ~~~~~~~O_modn  r,tw
Various other pengan
iBooltrWaington Insitute
TechnicallAricultudal Edutlon
-[3(M          Moenia VocstIoal Tr.nlng Cn ttr
or                       km50   Hon. Econonic Trddng Conw
oo             Fon""v T   '. Sw 1 ut
Forwt Worker Tnmi
0      Youth Tronid  CA s
VVoc nlAct l T
GRADES    AS    1  2  34  *                7  8  9   10 11 12    1  2  3  4 6
AGE       m                0 11 I           14 *.  *6 1  1   IS    tI  2. 12         
SCHOOLING       1  2    3 4  6  6   7  I    9 10   1   12 13 14   15 156 17 1



LIBERIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1980 SCHOOL  ENROLLMENT   PYRAMID   BY  GRADE - (LIBERIA)
LEVEL                                                                                                            T , .  _,  OTAL   QY  LEVEL
12                                                                4018        1623
t 1                                                             46162      1660                                            19602
10                                                             5636           2049
9                                                          712               2720
8                                          '~~~~       ~      ~~~~~~7290  3005                             32073
7                   B O' f S                             8461                 3585
6                                                                                478310493  4783
5         ,1776                                                                   590
4  1399011 6 99
3                                                       ______16312 r_               8769                                  147217
2                                           18674                                      10715
1                                      23773                                                1495                                  J
PT-Primary                  _Il____l_I_4_47033745 _80215
io        40          30          20            ot                                2b          30          4o
Thousands
SOURCE:   DIVISION  OF  EDUCATION   STATISTICS
MINISTRY  OF   EDUCATION



-39 -
LIBERIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                  ANNEX 4
SUWEAR  ACCDUIfT BY flGICT C9O7ir  (LLberian Dollar 'DOG)
IWlfIMK  EyWIFEI                 -                 MIWYMMTf         KW1M9 T               ACCATIDWOk TRAININ                 Fh,siocal
P10/KIr                                                        scolCwta                                               ontinsercoes
Plannoing an,   Benratong  Tests and                Teacher                  Construction                    and Dlnustic              -------
oanistrataon   Costs    easuresent tentboo&s Training Surerision and Furnishoina  A10B    VTC                  Training    Total        2   Amount
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. CINILNMS                                              -                                              1       391,B          4,356.0            200.0          834.8  5.782.6  10.0   578.3
Ph-sical Dantonnemces                                 -                        - -                  -          Y. *!5fl                         20.0             7  -- r.  -7r--r*r
Price Continuencoes--                                                                     -    -              36.3          1.165,0             11.2          192.6  1.405,2   9.1   127.7
Sub-Total INCLUING14  C044TINGE1CIES-                               -             -                             467.3          5,956,86           231.2        1,510.8  7,766.1      .    706.0
ForcoAn Exchange                                                              -                               0-6.9         2,580.1       - 103,0             483,1  3,373.1    .' 250.2
D. ~URNITURE
0ireour, Purnitire                                15                          -           -                   62.1          0,269.0       -        -          :37.0  1.478.:  11.0   :47,0
Sub-Total F0RN6ITLIAE                                 10.1                        - -                             62.11        1,2S9,01       -                  137.0. 1,47.,1  10,0   14'.0
PhvsicalContingeies                                           -                     -6       .21              126,9                -           rr       147. -   Mr oo    .0
Price Cootingencies                                1.8                        -           -8,61                               391,4       -        -           34,1     435,9   9.1    30,,
Sub-Total I482.DI16  CONTINGENCIES                    12.8          -             -76.9                                        1.787.3        -        -         184.8  2,061.9   9.1  1.87.4
Foreign Exchange                                  11.5           -            -           -         -         68.9          13594.0       -        -          185.:  1.839-.57.2    :33.7
C.EGUIPMENT                                         67.0      135.0          76A 0     105,0  1JZ5&           108L9            172.  2L&       L            JRB2    Wa44.    8.7144.9
Ph-sical Contingencies                             2.0       13.5           7.6       10.5    1.7.5,          10.9             17.3  2,025.0                   38.5    144 .8   IT,   0 .0
Price Continsencies                               12.1        6.2          10.5       21.4       28.3!        15.1             53.3    2.8    57.3             94.9    30:19    5.9    27,:
duo-Total INCISDINS CONTI688N81E0                    81.1       154.7         94.1       136.9     200          134.9            243.4   24.8   3`72.3           1:.194.             .0     '.
Foreign Exchange                                  72.6    :139.0           84.3      122.      197.61        120.8            21.7.~1 2-279S,9                463.1   ,'5i       7,5   130.
D. PR0FESS1D8AL FEES                                     -          -                                                                                            ' _____- -    24.5    124.5  10.2    12.4
Phusical Contingencies                               -                                                                                                          2.4    :12.4   0.         0.1
Price CintonNennies                                   -          -             -          -         -             --                       -       -           16.2      1s.2   9.1.      1.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CDNTINSENCIES                        -          -             -          -         -             --                       -        -          53     1153.1    9.1   "13.9
Foreign, Exchange                                     -          -            -           -         -             --                      -        -           67.4      67.4   3.3       5.6
E. TEZANICAL ASSISTANCE
specialist                                     1,888.0           -        300.0      300.0  1,350.0          :50.0                -250.0 300.9                750.0  5.259.0   0.2    :1,9
Consultant                                        75.0           -         60.0      180.8          -             -               -              0.1          135_.0    510.0   0.0       0.0
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    1.955.0 --------- 360.0                480.0  1,350.0         109.01------- - 250.0   360.0~  --- 885.0  5.790.0   0.2                    11.9
-Phosiocal Contingencies                            11.1-                                            --t                                                                          001.
Price Continsennies                              349.0           -         76,2       78.0    255.0           16.1                     23.6    37.3          290.3  1.123.7   0.7         2.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                 2,315.?                    436.2       556.1  1,605.0         166.1                 -  273.8   397.3,        1.175,3  6,925.6   0.2    10,3
Foreign Exchange                               1,985.2           -        378.3      5Q5.7  1.351:1          1403                     231.3   346.11       1,009.9  5.921,B    2.2    10.1
P. FELLWOSHIIP
Lmgu Term Fellovshops                            480.0           -        120.0      120.0    640.0          020.0                -160.0           -           80.0  1,920.0   0.0        2.
St.ds Tours                                           -          -          3.0           -         -             --                      -     72.0           51.1    216.0   0.0        0.0
Sub-Total FEL.LOWSHIPS                               4880           -        183.0    1.20.0    840.0           320.0                 -160.1    72.0             181.0- 2,136.0   0.0        0.0
Price Contonueucies                               -5.1                     26f2!1                  l                               - 12I.  57.93%   r-          7fl     rr2.      m      r0 0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CSNTINGENCIES                   565.1           -        209.2       138.0    761.9         377,9                 -192,0    776              188.8  2,588.6   0.1        0.0
Foreign Exchaonse                                565.            -        209.2      136.0    761.9          377.9                    192,0    77,0          188.6  2,588.8   0.1         0.0
8. TE3T1~~~8                                                        -   2.151,7          -             -                -      -         -             -  2 ~,1501.7  10.0   215.2
Price Contingerncies                                                           -     490.,4         -                                       '       --                  490.4   9.:    49.,1
Sub-Total INaSDI68 CANTINSENCIES                         -          -             - 2.857,3            -             --                       -        --2.857,3   9.1   259.8
Foreign Exchrange                                    -           -            - 2.857.3             -            --                       -        --2,857.3  71.5   215.2
Total 08IT0L COSTS                                   2,512.0       135.0        619.0   2,856.7  2,165.0         1,032.8          5,797,8  430.0   882.0          2.527,2 !8,957.5'   5.9 1,117.4
Plisical Contingencies                                14.9       13.5          7.6       225.7      17.5         56.3            579.8    2.0    45,0            148.1  1,119.4   0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies                                  448.1        8.2        613.0       603.9    405.3         134.0          1,609.7   58.4   111.6            055.7  4,145.9   5.9   242.8
Total INCLUDING CONTINGONCIES                        2,975,0       154.7        739.6   3,686.2  2,587.8         1,223.1          7,987.3  490,4 1,038.6          3,331.0 24,213.8   5.6 1,353.2
Foreia,nExcharue                                  2,614.3       139.0        871.9   3.621.5  2,31.0.6          914.7          4,391.2  445.5   823.8         2,377,2 18,309.7   4.1   754.4
II. WOAEATING COSTS
Local salaries                                          -     381.6             -           -         -             --                       -       --                   381.6   0.0       M.
Petrol WAn  Maintenane                                  -      328.8             -          -         -             --                       -        --                  328.8   0.0       0.0
0.41  88886016808805                        -    ~~~~~~            ~~~718.4  -  -         -            -    _        _-         -        --                  710,4- 0.0        0.0
~~noce Coetinue,ncirs                    -                        -                                                   -        - -                   -!9S5  i9e.    0.0      0.0
Total ICIAMING C81TIMNGICIES                                -      988.9             -          -          -!-                                    ,       --                  908.9   0.0        0.
Foceouc Eochoange                                               366.7                                                                                                      36~   06.7   0.0  1.
Total 168E1I1E 080T0                                   2,512 8        45          6190   28B56.7  2,165.0          1,032.9          5,797.8  430.0   882,0         2,527,2 19,667,9   5.6 1,110.4
Phosocal  mintongecoes                           __TTTe           !T'O         713                                               71        =.  =i!7          - 1748.0   1,110.4   8.0         0.0
Priet Caitingencies                                   448.1      204.7        1100        683.9    405:3          134.0         1609.7   58.4   111.6             655.7  4,344.4   5.6   242.0
Total PRSICT COSTS                                     2975.0   1,063.6           739.6   3,686.2  2,58781    12"3.1                7,987.3  490.4 1.030,6   7 ,331,'.12.                541,313.2
-    - - a s                                                  -     -                  --
Foeigntnxchange                                     2,614.3      557           819      32.5 2306                  147          4,391.2  445.5   823.8          2,377.218o7   4 .0    754.4
October 20. 1982 16014



40-                                    ANNEX 5
LIBERIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN BY PROJECT COMPONENT AND CATEGORY
(US$ thousands)
PROJECT COMPONENTS             TOTAL COST            IDA         ADB        GOVERNMENT
I. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Furniture                         10                 7          -               3
Equipment                       278               143          135             _
Technical Assistance           2315              2085           -             230
Fellowships                     663               598           -              65
Operating Costs                  710               -           234            476
II. PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT
Civil Works                    4748                _          4748
Furniture                      1331                -          1331
Equipment                       562               280          282             _
Technical Assistance            1980             1647          150            183
Fellowships                    1080               684          320             76
Textbooks                      2152              2152           -              _
III. VOCATIGOAL TRAINING
Civil Works                    1035               725           -             310
Furniture                       137                96           -              41
Equipment                        655               655          _              _
Professional Fees               125                88           _              37
Technical Assistance            1495              1346          _             150
Fellowships                      393              354           -              39
TOTAL BASE COST                  19668             10860        7200           1610
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES            1110               400         650             60
PRICE CONTINGENCIES               4344              2284        1950            110
GRAND TOTAL                      25123             13544        9800           1780
FOREIGN EXCHANGE                 18676             12176        6200            300



- 41 -                                                  ANNEX 6
LIBERIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF SPECIALIST SERVICES
Position                                                                             Person/Months            Starting Date
1 a)  PLANNING ADMINISTRATION AND PROJECT PREPARATION
.  Specialists in Preparation of Fourth Education Project                                 12                    (1/81/PPF)
.  Specialist in Planning and Management Team Leader (W.P. p. 20)                         54                       1/83
.  Training Specialists (W.P. p. 21)                                                      12                       8/83
.  Microcomputer Applications Specialist (W.P. p. 25)                                     36                       7/83
.  Educational and Architectural Services for Preparation Future Projects                 24                       1/85
. Assistance in establishing project accounts, Six annual audit of
project accounts Lia follow-up
1 b)  TESTS AND MEASUREMENT
*  Specialist in Tests and Measurements                                                   24                       7/84
Short-term  Specialists                                                                 4                       1/85
2 a)  TEXTBOOKS
Textbook Specialist                                                                    24                    (7/82/PPF)
Textbook Consultant                                                                     4                       6/85
Textbook Consultant                                                                     4                       6/86
Textbook Consultant                                                                     4                       6/87
2 b)  TEACHER TRAINING
(i) In-Service Teacher Education
Technical Service Contract between MOE and the Universities
(ii) University Level Teacher Education
. Facilities Planner                                                                      12                       1/84
2 c)  EDUCATION SUPERVISION
.  Specialist in Education Supervision                                                    12                       7/83
2 d)  SCHOOL CONSTRUCTIONS AND FURNISHING
. No Specialists
3 a)  AGRICULTURE AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING BOARD
Trade/Aptitude Testing                                                                 18                       7/83
Supervisory Training                                                                    6                       7/83
Agricultural/Rural Youth Training                                                      12                       7/83
3 b)  VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTER
Apprenticeship Training                                                                18                       1/83
Electrical Training                                                                    18                       1/83
Equipment Specialists (2)                                                      3 m/m  each time            7/83 and 7/85
3 c)  COMMERCIAL AND DOMESTIC TRAINING
Specialist in Project Preparation                                                       3                       2/81
Specialist in Commercial Training                                                      36                       9/85
Specialist in Model Office                                                              6                       2/86
Specialist in Domestic Training                                                        24                       2/86



SUMMARY OF FELLOWSHIPS
Field of Study                                                                                                Field of Study
and Fellowship                                     Person/          Level of          Starting                and Fellowship                                     Person/          Level of          Starting
Number                                             Month            Training          Date                    Number                                             Month            Training          Date
1 a)  PLANNING, ADMINISTRATION APD PROJECT FREPARATION                                                        2 c)  EDUCATIONAL SUPERVISION
, Personnel Administration                           24             Masters             9/83                     Educational Supervision                          24              Masters             9/83
,  Personnel Administration                          24             Masters             9/84                     Educational Supervision                          24              Masters             9/83
. Accounting                                         24             Masters             9/83                     Educational Supervision                          24              Masters             9/83
Accounting                                         24            Masters             9/84                     Educational Supervision                          24              Masters             9/83
Business Administration                           24             Masters             9/83                     Educational Supervision                          24              Masters             9/84
. Procurement                                         12            Certificate         9/83                     Educational Supervision                          24              Masters             9/84
Procurement                                       12             Certificate         9/84                  .  Educational Supervision                          24              Masters             9/84
Warehousing                                        12            Certificate         9/83                  * Educational Supervision                           24              Masters             9/84
Warehousing                                        12            Certificate         9/84
Education (Economics)                             24             Masters             9/83           2 d)  SCHOOL CONSTRUCTIONS AND FURNISHING
.  Education (Evaluation)                            24             Masters             9/83
,  Systems Analysis                                  24             Masters             9/83                  * No Fellowships
*Systems Analysis                                   24            Masters             9/83
Computer Programming                              12             Certificate         9/83
.  Computer Programming                              12             Certificate         9/83           3 a)  AGRICULTORE AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING BOARD
Trade Testing                                    24             Masters             9/83
1 b)  TESTS AND MEASUREMENT                                                                                             Curriculum Development                           24             Masters              9/83
.  Tests and Measurement                             24             Masters             9/83                     Adm. of Vocational Training                      24              Masters             9/84
*Tests and Mearurement                              24            Masters             9/83                      Planning of Vocational Training                  24             Masters              9/85
. Tests and Mearurement                              24             Masters              /
.Tests and Measurement                              24            Masters             9/84
,  Short Courses                                     15                -                9/83            3 b)  VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTER (VTC)
, Multilith Operations                                8                _                9/83
*OAssistant Instructor Training                      6                 -               9/83
*Assistant Instructor Training6                                      -                98
2 a)  TEXTBOOKS                                                                                                      * Assistant Instructor Training                      6                 -                9/83
Textbook Publishing and Procurement               Up to 12 months                    5/83                  * Assistant Instructor Training                      6                 -                9/83
Textbook Publishing and Procurement               Up to 12 months                    5/83
Textbook Publishing and Procurement               Up to 12 months                    5/84           3 c)  COMMERCIAL AND DOMESTIC TRAINING
Textbook Publishing snd Procurement               Up to 12 months                    5/84
Curriculum Development                            24                                 9/85                  * Commercial Instructor Training                    12              Certificate         9/83
*  Commercial Instructor Training                   12             Certificate         9/83
Domestic Instructor Training                     12             Certificate         9/83
2 b)  TEACHER TRAINING                                                                                                  Domestic Instructor Training                     12              Certificate         9/83
* Advanced Instructor Trng./Methodology              3                 -               1/84
(i)  In-Service Teacher Training                                                                              * Advanced Instructor Trng./Methodology               3                -                1/84
. Teacher Education                                  24             Masters             9/83                  * Advanced Instructor Trng./Methodology               3                 -               1/84
. Teacher Education                                  24             Masters             9/85                  * Advanced Instructor Trng./Methodology               3                -                1/84
.  Guidance                                           24            Masters             9/83                  . Advanced Instructor Trng./Methodology               3                -                1/84
. Advanced Instructor Trng./Methodology              3                 -                1/84
(ii) University Level Teacher Training                                                                        * Advanced Instructor Trng./Methodology               3                 -               1/84
.  Advanced Instructor Trng./Methodology             3                 -               1/84
.  English Education                                  24            Masters             9/83                  *  Center Management Trng./Study Tour                 1                _                9/83
*   athematics Education                            24            Masters             9/83CetrMngmtTngSudTorI                                                                                        98
*Mathematics Education                              38            Doctorate           9/83                      Center Management Trng./Study Tour                1                 -                9/83
Business Education                                 24            Masters             9/83                   * Center Management Trng./Study Tour                 1                _                9/83
Business Education                                24             Masters             9/83
* Agriculture Education                              36             Doctorate           9/83
*  Foundation Studies                                 36            Doctorate           9/83
* Home Econ. Education                               24             Masters             9/83
*  Elem. Ed./Language Arts/Social Studies            24             Masters             9/83
*  Elem. Ed. /Language Arts/Social Studies           24             Masters             9/83
*  Evaluation/Research                               36             Doctorate           9/84



- 43-
ANNEX 8
LIBERIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR
COMPONENTS                                           1982    1983    1984   1 1985 4  1986   1 1987    1988
1314112 3'4 112131411213 4 112 3 4 121314 1,21 34
CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS
CLOSING DATE OF CREDIT
1 a)  PLANNING, ADMINISTRATION AND
PROJECT PREPARATION
Furniture, equipmentA
Technical Assistance
Fellowships
1 b)  TESTS AND ME.ASUREM,[ENT
Equipment, vehicles
Technical Assistance
Fellowships
2 a)  TEXTBOOKS
Equipment, office supplies
Technical Assistance
Fellowships
Textbooks
2 b) TE-ACNER TRAINING
Ci) IN-SERVICE
Fellowships
(ii) UNIVERSITY LEVEL
Pedagogical Materials
Technical Assistance
Fellowships
2 c)  EDUCATIONAL SUPERVISION
Civil Works
Vehicles
Technical Assistance----
Fellowships
2 d)  SCNOOL CONSTRUCTION
Civil Works (24 schools)
Furniture, equipment (54 schools)
3a)  AFBLEquipment, Books                                  O    A
3b)  rC    Technical Assistance                                               K
Fencing, Burgler Bars                 -I-
Consumable Materials
Fellowahips
3 cY  COMMERCIAL TRAINING                                             I
Civil Workst
Furniture                                  z
Equipment                                 E 
Technical Assistance
Fellowships
7  CIVIL WORKS: ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN WORK AND BIDDING DOCUMENTS
EQUJIPMEN, FUJEN=TRE:- PREPARATION OF LISTS AND BIDDING DOCUMENTMS
TENDERING AND EVALUATION OF RIDS
CIVIL WRSCOSTRUCTION
EQUJIFMN,FRITURE: MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY, INSTALLATION
SPECIALIST SERVICES: DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT
FELLOWSHIIP S: DURATION OF TRAINING



- 44 -
ANNEX 9
LIBERIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(US$ '000)
Accumulated      Undisbursed
Fiscal Year      Quarter        Disbursements        Disbursements       Balance
83             3               1,100               1,100           12,400
4                200               1,300            12,200
84             1                 200               1,500           12,000
2                700               2,200            11,300
3                700               2,900            10,600
4                700               3,600             9,900
85             1                 800               4,400            9,100
2                900               5,300             8,200
3                900               6,200             7,300
4                800               7,000             6,500
86             1                 700               7,700            5,800
2                700               8,400             5,100
3                600               9,000             4,500
4                600               9,600             3,900
87             1                 600              10,200            3,300
2                600              10,800             2,700
3                500              11,300             2,200
4                400              11,700             1,800
88             1                 400              12,100            1,400
2                400              12,500             1,Q00
3                300              12,800               700
4                300              13,100               400
89             1                 200              13,300               200
2                200              13,500                 0



- 45 -                      ANNEX l1
LIBERIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
List of Main Documents in the Project File
1. Carroll, Mark, Educational Materials for Liberia, Institute for
International Research, 1981, Bethesda, Maryland
2.  Dougharty, Lawrence, Alternative Education Futures for Liberia;
A Ten Years Cost Revenue Forecast, Institute for International
Research, 1981, Bethesda, Maryland
3.  Ministry of Education, National Education Development Plan;
1978-1990, 1977, Monrovia, Liberia
4. Ministry of Education, National Education Survey, 1978, Monrovia,
Liberia
5. Ministry of Education, Papers Delivered at the National Conference
on Education, 1981, Monrovia, Liberia
6. Ministry of Education, Statistics of Education in Liberia (various
years), Monrovia, Liberia
7. Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs, National Socio-Economic
Development Plan, March 1976, Monrovia, Liberia
8. University of Liberia, Long Range Development Plan, November 1975,
Monrovia, Liberia






IBRD 16544
AUGUST 1982
J  ./~T~"~eio ~'~YJA1A.(f                                                                     LI BERIA
T"  viiN t0sokieOos >FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
S  I E  R  R  A                                                                                                                   132.-.I  o  Number of PrinnaC-
uy-                                      A   13.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uiness and Dom-tic
f                                                      Trainig Cannot
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bkz V* Oarron\ Training Center
L  E  O  N    E            !   Fomo         4           /             )    kezo         1                                  * V.catIonal Idustnial Training Boa
-    Poved Roods
r a, < C ci U N T 'S   zortort    )   <                                Loose Surfoce Roods
/{~~   -t   -6/      W        Sslcyle(Ty jX               7        !~~~~~~~~ IYelepoN.jl      Irtarno>tional Airport
S.I..  Bor   p>  Aifie lds
A                   <       + -t ts ,.ANNIQUELLIE                                     Mr
B < </ / g                            RS >eleluono  Gonio  Kod e M R Ports
7B-d  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2Cor-ny Cop ta1s
7 X / }/ \05)i -0                                                                                  (C-  - County Boundaries
TEI                                     o        o                                                          V   O         R  Y
s~~~~~~ u TSA   YX   AJ0<ZER 
o   V  V  tt /~~~~~~~~N>GRAND>                                                                 *                         6-
Gbc6g  k                                                                                     c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tn   NyA   S   T
G R B NA Nt       A                    , S A                              CA   MARY AN
BUCHAB'                                                                                    HAPE
T61s mp h.s b-e prep-rd by the                                                                                                   E D    HA            I  <(
=h con---c of the -ed-r fr                                   K. b Wo                                          
'he report b, wh,ch t is .,Wahed                                                    s/          /r,                        
The de-om.i-aon -sd .nd the                                                      eO                           /      _                                     )        I
do no-opty, on the p.vt of the                                                                                   ,Kg          \          fOUNTY 
World 6-k -d,b, afhi.We, -ny                                        Rie W                                ~     z'>
j,dgmen, onth legal st,u Jf<                                         ivr(ss                          .<                             \%S
or-cept.-c of -uh b-ud.6-e                                                                    SIN            fi       Y        $>      /   
MA URITANIA5                                                             <          ($   4/)(tQ                      t0~
GAMBA                                   dvSE -8-  N.  G     R        E        E        V                1,u-e~fp~ 5--
GUINEA-BSs - VOLTA >(/\//~  
W  O AS~~~CAT  /  :KLP TR ms                                                                             <    / X ^          5     >     rt
0o.o       \         v 00                   2      40     o0     80    100                             Sson<             ~       ) Bn           1
LIBER~~~~~~~~~~I 0               10    2    30   4'0  50 0                                                   .nd eo e
A                 0 /MI   c Oc c                                \LES                                                                     Fs  or7g4
L                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 .                                                                   8.....  -    --  -~  -----.-_._......_....__8HR=



