Document of                             FILE 
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3390-LBR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$13.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
November 11, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Liberian dollar
with a par value equal to the US dollar. The US
dollar is legal tender in Liberia.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -  African Development Bank
AITB   -  Agricultural and Industrial Training Bureau
CBDTC  -  Clerical, Business, and Domestic Training Center
MOE    -  Ministry of Education
PIU    -  Project Implementation Unit
VTC    -  Vocational Training Center



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
Fourth Education Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      The Republic of Liberia
Amount:        SDR 12.6 million (US$13.5 million)
Terms:         Standard
Project
Description:  The project seeks to improve the quality and efficiency of
primary education and to further expand access to primary
schools through support for: (a) institutional development of
the Ministry of Education; (b) a primary school development
program to include establishment of a national textbook
program, upgrading of 2,250 primary school teachers, streng-
thening of the educational inspectorate, and construction,
equipping, and furnishing of 24 new primary schools, and
furnishing of 30 additional primary schools. The project would
also: (a) strengthen the Agricultural and Industrial Training
Bureau and the Vocational Training Center; and (b) establish a
new commercial training center to consolidate the activities of
three existing training programs. The improvements in primary
education and skill training are expected to lead to more
efficient allocation of resources, increases in skilled
manpower, higher worker productivity, and greater employment
opportunities for graduates. The project would also help the
Government establish cost recovery procedures for several
education and training programs. The main risks are (a) that
the Ministry of Education's lack of experience in administering
a textbook program will delay this major project component, and
(b) that the educational supervision and teacher training and
upgrading components may not be sufficiently coordinated with
the textbook program. The project design addressed these risks
through allowance for adequate technical assistance in key
areas, detailed preparation prior to appraisal, and attention
to experience gained from the three earlier education projects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs l/
------ (US$ million) -------
Local       Foreign      Total
Institutional Development
Planning & Administration           0.7          2.6         3.3
Tests & Measurement                 0.1          0.6         0.7
Primary School Development
Textbook Procurement &
Distribution                     0.1           2.8         2.9
Primary Teacher Training            0.2          1.9         2.1
Educational Su,pervision            0.3          0.8         1.1
School Construction &
Furnishing                       2.5          3.3          5.8
Skill Training
Agricultural & Industrial
Training Bureau/Monrovia
Vocational Training Center       0.2           1.1         1.3
Commercial Training                0.7           1.8         2.5
Base Cost                        4.8          14.9        19.7
Physical Contingencies           0.4           0.7         1.1
Price Contingencies               1.3         3.0         4.3
Total                            6.5         18.6        25.1
Financing Plan:
IDA                              1.4         12.1        13.5
Government                       1.5            .3         1.8
ADB                              3.6          6.2         9.8
Total                            6.5         18.6        25.1
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ million)
IDA FY                          83    84    85    86    87    88    89
Annual                          1.3   2.3   3.4   2.6   2.1   1.4    .4
Cumulative                      1.3   3.6   7.0   9.6  11.7  13.1  13.5
Project Completion Date:   June 30, 1988
Staff Apprisal Report:       4010-LBR
Map No.: IBRD No. 16544
1/ Net of taxes, from which the project is exempt.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to the Republic of Liberia for the equivalent of SDR 12.6 million (US$13.5
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Fourth Education
project. The project would be cofinanced by the African Development Bank
which would provide a loan equivalent to about US$9.8 million, with a term of
20 years including five years grace, with interest at 10.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       An economic report, entitled "Liberia:  Current Economic Situation
and Prospects" (No. 2662-LBR), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 28, 1979. An economic mission visited Liberia in October 1981 to
review the current economic situation and its report is in preparation; its
principal findings are included in the following paragraphs. Country data are
shown in Annex I.
Structural Characteristics
3.       The growth of Liberia's economy remains heavily dependent on the per-
formance of the enclave sector, consisting mainly of: (a) iron ore mines,
(b) rubber plantations, and (c) forestry concessions. These enclaves are the
main source of export earnings. Iron ore mining is by far the largest single
activity in the enclave sector, accounting for about one-third of gross domes-
tic product at factor cost. There are only limited linkages between the en-
claves and the rest of the economy; as a result, the benefits of economic
growth have been unevenly distributed.
4.       The income disparities between traditional agriculture and the (mone-
tized) modern sector are a manifestation of structural imbalance in the eco-
nomy. Traditional agriculture has minimal interaction with the rest of the
economy; however, it supports the majority of the population - as much as 60
percent - who live at, or near, subsistence level. With a population of about
1.9 million, average per capita GNP in 1981 is estimated at US$540. While the
enclave sector yields a per capita GNP of about US$1,620 compared to US$780
for the rest of the monetized economy, the great majority of the population
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Second Lofa County Agricultural Development Project (P-3266-LBR) of
April 12, 1982.



who live in the traditional non-monetized sector have a per capita income of
about US$185 per annum.
Development Plan and General Economic Policy
5.       After completing its first Four-Year Development Plan, Liberia has
embarked upon preparation of a Second Plan. The first Plan was intended as
the first of a series of multi-year investment programs aimed at meeting the
basic, long-term objectives of Liberia's socio-economic development. These
are: (a) diversification of production; (b) dispersion of sustainable socio-
economic activities throughout the country; (c) greater involvement of
Liberians in development activities; and (d) equitable distribution of the
benefits of economic growth. Performance under the first Plan fell short of
expectations. Investment in the productive sectors was below the original
target, while one-fourth of total expenditure during the Plan period was for
facilities and buildings for the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Confer-
ence, which had not been included in the original Plan.
6.       The new Government, which assumed power in April 1980, reaffirmed the
broad objectives of the First Plan. Work had been initiated under the former
Government on the preparation of the Second Plan (FY82-86) which is scheduled
for completion shortly. The general economic policy statement issued by the
Government of the People's Redemption Council on June 5, 1980 sets out the
broad objectives of the present government. The main thrust of the economic
policy is to expand the country's productive capacity, especially in agricul-
ture, and tp ensure that benefits from economic growth and development are en-
joyed by an increasing number of Liberians. To achieve this end, the Govern-
ment intends to encourage local and foreign private investment and give prior-
ity to labor-intensive investments. Significant measures taken by the new
Government since its assumption of office include decisions to: (a) retain
the Liberian dollar at par with the US dollar, which remains legal tender in
Liberia; (b) honor all existing contractual agreements with foreign private
investors and to change such agreements only through negotiations with all
parties concerned; (c) permit the free flow of capital, goods and services;
and (d) regulate labor relations by full protection of the rights of both
workers and management.
Recent Economic Developments
7.       While strong world demand for Liberia's major export, iron ore,
brought large gains from exports up to 1974, the subsequent recession in in-
dustrialized countries significantly reduced demand for the country's most
important export commodities--iron ore, rubber and timber. With growth per-
formance continuing to be largely a function of enclave activities, growth of
real GDP--which averaged about 6.3 percent a year in the 1967-70 period and
4.2 percent a year in the 1970-74 period--has slowed down significantly and is
estimated to have been about 1.3 percent a year between 1974 and 1979. Eco-
nomic performance in 1979 and the first quarter of 1980 had taken a turn for
the better, but following the change in Government in April 1980 there was a
setback in growth because of loss of confidence in the private sector, weak-
nesses of Government policy and poor world market prospects for Liberia's



-3-
principal exports. According to the preliminary estimates, real GDP declined
by 4.7 percent in 1980 and 5.0 percent in 1981.
8.       During 1974-78, mostly reflecting accelerated international infla-
tion, imports rose by 14 percent annually, exceeding the 5 percent annual ex-
port growth rate. However, a temporary resurgence in world prices of iron
ore, timber and rubber helped Liberia to expand its exports by 10 percent in
1979 and 14 percent in 1980. But in 1981, exports declined by 12.0 percent.
Oil imports increased from US$15 million in 1973 to US$130.0 million in 1981,
or 27 percent of the country's total imports. But due to supressed real im-
ports, Liberia achieved a trade surplus of US$51.8 million in 1981; the reduc-
tion in imports has been due to the general deterioration in the economy fol-
lowing the change in Government. The current account deficit, reflecting sub-
stantial factor service payments, especially on investment income from enclave
operations, increased to about US$160 million in 1978, or 24 percent of GDP,
as compared to US$30 million in 1974, or 7 percent of GDP. The deficit has
subsequently declined yearly to US$65.4 million in 1981 due to favorable trade
balances. Current account deficits were financed mostly by private capital
transactions, but in the last two years official capital inflows have risen
substantially.
9.       Liberia has had a long history of sound fiscal management and public
sector resources did not come under undue pressure until the mid-1970s. Since
1974, the Government has been facing growing budgetary deficits. The-deficit
in 1975 was only about US$4.0 million, but by FY1980 it had reached US$111 -
million or 54 percent of government revenues. The strain on public sector
finances intensified during 1979-80 and assumed serious proportions in the
aftermath of the change in Government. The decline in public revenues,
coupled with a decision to increase the salaries of low-paid military person-
nel from $100 to $250 per month and the payment of pending bills from the OAU
Conference, increased the overall budgetary deficit to $136 million in FY1981
(13 percent of GDP). The shortfall in revenues was caused largely by lower
import duty collection and substantial tax evasion by self-employed indivi-
duals, partnerships and corporations. The growing budgetary deficit since
FY1980 and the serious liquidity crisis necessitated that the Government
approach the IMF in May 1980 for assistance.
Relations with the IMF
10.      In July 1980 the new Government introduced a two-year stabilization
program to be supported by a standby arrangement with the IMF. Major elements
in the stabilization program included tighter fiscal policies and stricter
control of the financial operations of the public corporations, increased mo-
bilization of domestic revenues, revision of energy pricing policies, a freeze
on wages and salaries of Government employees and elimination of consumer
subsidies. Limits were placed on new borrowings with a maturity of one to
twelve years and on credit to the Government and the public sector from the
banking system.
11.      By early 1981, the Government had introduced the necessary measures
to revise tax rates and levy import surcharges. However, the overall deficit



-4-
in FY81 was $136 million (62 percent of Government revenues), or $61 million
higher than the original budget estimates. While revenue collection was
higher by 8 percent as compared to the previous year, it fell short of the
expected yields as a result of a decline in customs duties. There was also
some increase in recurrent expenditures beyond budget estimates. This
budgetary imbalance, lack of strict control on the operations of public corpo-
rations, and the consumer subsidy on rice were some of the major issues
addressed in the context of the second year of the stabilization program. To
address them, the Government announced elimination of the consumer subsidy on
rice; a new progressive national reconstruction tax on wages, salaries and
self-employed income, and increased excise taxes on beer and gasoline. The
Government also undertook to improve the financial viability of the public
corporations. The IMF Board approved the program in August 1981 and made
available SDR 55 million for the second year of the Standby Arrangement. At
the end of the program, the overall fiscal deficit in FY81 /82 remained at $89
million, or 7.4 percent of GDP and, although external arrears were reduced by
$10 million during 1981 /82, domestic arrears of the public sector continued at
the same level of about $8 million as in the previous year. A renewed Standby
Agreement and support from the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF) were
approved by the IMF Board at end September 1982. Under the program, SDR 27.7
million has been purchased from the CFF facility. SDR 55 million is available
under the standby program of which SDR 5.0 million has already been pur-
chased. Expenditure restraint and, in particular, a 15 percent reduction in
recurrent expenditure, continues to be a principal objective of IMF assis-
tance. Further drawings under the standby arrangement are conditional, among
other things, on realization of expenditure reductions. A review of the
program is scheduled for late November 1982.
12.      Monthly payments for oil imports continue to create a serious liqui-
dity problem on public sector finances as receipts generated abroad are not
sufficient to meet oil payments and service the public sector's external
debt. U.S. Government grants from the Economic Support Fund have up to now
helped to ease the situation.
Creditworthiness
13.      Liberia's external public debt outstanding and disbursed was esti-
mated at about US$537 million as of December 1980. The Bank Group share of
the public debt outstanding and disbursed is presently about 15 percent and is
expected to increase to about 24 percent by 1984. As a proportion of public
debt servicing liability, the Bank Group's share is expected to increase from
14 percent to 18 percent over the same period. Debt service payments as a
proportion of exports of goods and non-factor services were estimated at about
7 percent in 1980 as compared to 5.7 and 7.7 percent for 1972 and 1974 respec-
tively. Public debt service payments as a percentage of Government revenues
(a more meaningful indicator for Liberia which uses the US dollar as a medium
of exchange) declined from about 24 percent in 1972 and 21 percent in 1974 to
16.5 percent in 1978, but has again gone up to 22 percent in 1980. This up-
surge in the debt service ratio has occurred primarily as a result of short-
maturity loans contracted by Liberia in the last few years to finance OAU-
related expenditures and to meet the growing budgetary deficits. This



- 5 -
increase in debt servicing obligations created severe pressures on Liberia's
public finances. The Government therefore sought and obtained the assistance
of the Paris Club in rescheduling its external public sector debt of US$32
million maturing during the period July 1980 to December 1981; the rescheduled
debt is to be repaid over 9 years, including four years of grace. In December
1981 further relief was requested and Liberia obtained an 18-month extension,
with extension from October 1, 1982 to June 30, 1983 subject to renewal of the
standby agreement with the IMF when it expired in September 1982. This condi-
tion has now been satisfied. In addition, an agreement with the London Club
to refinance a private bank syndicated loan of about US$27 million is expected
to be concluded in November.
14.      Assuming a continuation of the recent rate of growth in public reve-
nues and exports (10 percent and 5 percent per annum, respectively) Liberia's
debt service ratio is estimated to increase to about 33 percent of public rev-
enues and 12 percent of exports by 1985; should there be an improvement in the
country's economic prospects over the next few years, the debt service ratio
would be somewhat lower (around 29 percent) by 1985. Although the movement in
world prices of Liberia's main export commodities in 1981 was not particularly
favorable, the growth in export earnings is projected to be higher in subse-
quent years as a result of the likely strengthening in demand for rubber and
timber and, to a lesser extent, iron ore and an increase in iron ore prices.
Forecasts for natural rubber and log prices indicate a consistently upward
movement, and Liberia may expect higher yields from the recently replanted
acreage and new planting of rubber. Other ongoing agriculture projects (par-
ticularly for coffee, cocoa, palm oil), and successful exploration and devel-
opment of other mining resources, including gold and barite, will help diver-
sify the economy and should result in an acceleration in the rate of growth of
exports during the next three to four years. Public revenues will benefit
from these increased export earnings. However, these prospects are clearly
contingent upon the successful implementation of a number of policy measures
over the next few years, e.g., a continued reduction in the size of the
Government budget deficit, further restraint on new commercial borrowings and
public sector credit expansion, increased mobilization of public savings,
maintenance of the traditional openness of the economy, appropriate pricing
and tariff policies, revival of-investor confidence, inflow of new private
investment and improvement in the coordination of overall economic manage-
ment. Although Liberia has acute short-term liquidity problems, restoration
of growth and stability is feasible, provided the Government is able and
willing to pursue the right course.
15.      In recent years Bank group lending to Liberia has been a blend of IDA
credits and Bank loans; in view of the country's relatively low per capita in-
come and high public debt service liability, continued IDA assistance is jus-
tified.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA 1/
16.      As of September 30, 1982 the Bank had approved 22 loans (including
one Third Window loan) for projects in Liberia totalling US$155.77 million;
there have been 11 IDA credits totalling US$73.46 million, and one technical
assistance grant of US$200,000 for development planning. IFC has made two
equity investments totalling US$556,000 in the share capital of the Liberian
Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI). The Bank Group assistance has
financed roads, agricultural development, power, education, water supply, in-
dustry and mining, small enterprises, and petroleum pre-exploration. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments
as of September 30, 1982 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of
September 30, 1982.
17.      Bank Group disbursements for projects in Liberia increased steadily
from FY78 to FY81 when disbursements were equivalent to 26 percent of credits
and loans outstanding at the beginning of that fiscal year. This performance
was made possible by close coordination with the budgetary authorities, which
consistently earmarked sufficient counterpart resources to Bank Group sup-
ported projects in Liberia. In spite of its continued commitment to such pro-
jects, the Government is now experiencing considerable difficulty in providing
counterpart resources because of the sharp deterioration in public finances
discussed in Part I of this report. Close monitoring of project implementa-
tion and continued coordination with the budgetary authorities should avoid
excessive delays in implementation due to lack of counterpart resources. How-
ever, the Government's present resource position is being taken into account
in structuring new projects: their size is being limited to essentials and as
much foreign financing as possible is being provided so as to reduce the need
for Government contributions.
18.      The objectives of Bank Group operations are:  (a) to help Liberians
take greater initiative in developing their own resources for the benefit of
their people; (b) to support policies and programs leading to a broader dis-
tribution of the benefits of economic growth; (c) to help the Government
broaden the economic base and overcome infrastructural constraints to growth;
and (d) to assist the Government in mobilizing development resources from
other external agencies. In furthering these objectives, particular attention
is being paid to (a) the need to expand the supply of trained manpower, and
(b) measures to strengthen and improve the operations and finances of the pub-
lic corporations in Liberia.
19.      In support of the objectives of raising the standard of living of
lower income groups and broadening the productive base, the Bank Group lending
program emphasizes agriculture and rural development. The Bank Group is
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Second Lofa County Agricultural Development Project (P-3266-LBR) of
April 12, 1982.



-7-
currently financing two agricultural projects: phase one in Bong County and
phase two in Lofa County (not yet effective). These projects are designed to
(a) assist subsistence farmers to expand their production base and to increase
their productivity and income through the provision of support services and
infrastructure, and (b) to help diversify the country's export and revenue
base. A rubber project, co-financed with the Commonwealth Development Corpo-
ration (CDC), is designed to expand exports and increase the productivity and
incomes of small and medium size farmers.  A forestry project which the Bank
is co-financing with the African Development Bank (ADB) and the German Agency
for Technical Cooperation, seeks to strengthen the Government's forest ser-
vice, initiate an industrial plantation program, and help Liberia better man-
age and exploit its forestry resources. An oil palm project, co-financed by
the ADB and the CDC, would help expand and diversify the country's export and
revenue base, provide employment, increase the income level of rural families,
and strengthen the institutional capability in the country for oil palm devel-
opment.
20.      In addition to its support for agriculture, the Bank Group is also
assisting the Government in its diversification efforts through credits to
LBDI for the manufacturing sector. A small and medium scale enterprises pro-
ject, approved in November 1980, seeks to stimulate economic activity and
employment by providing credit and technical assistance. While reinforcing
the Government's efforts to become less dependent on mining, the Bank has
granted loans for a project to rehabilitate a mine operated by the National
Iron Ore Company, which would help maintain employment, increase Government
revenues and prepare the way for an orderly transition from mining to other
economic activities in the area. The objective of the petroleum exploration
promotion project, approved in October 1980, is to establish Liberia's hydro-
carbon potential by attracting oil companies to take oil exploration permits
in Liberia.
21.      Given Liberia's pressing needs for physical infrastrucutre, the Bank
Group continues to play a leading role in financing development and mainte-
nance of roads and water supply and power facilities. A water supply project
for which a credit was granted in 1978 is designed to help rehabilitate and
expand the Monrovia water supply system, extend water distribution to lower
income groups in metropolitan areas, and strengthen the management, staffing,
and finances of the Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation (LWSC). An urban
development project, for which a credit was approved in April 1982, seeks to
improve the living conditions of Monrovia's urban poor by (a) upgrading infra-
structure and providing essential services in three of its most needy neigh-
borhoods, and (b) strengthening key institutions to provide more effective
management and establish a solid revenue base in the municipality. The feeder
roads project for which a Bank loan was approved in 1979 is designed to open
up the agricultural hinterland of Liberia to support ongoing and proposed ag-
ricultural and rural development programs. The nearly completed fourth high-
way project has, like earlier Bank-financed projects, expanded the country's
limited basic road network. A fifth highway project to improve the country's
road maintenance capability is being considered. Through four projects in the
power sector, the Bank has helped expand the Liberia Electricity Corporation's
(LEC) thermal generating facilities to meet current demand, strengthened LEC's



- 8 -
management, and extended con ections to poor urban households in Monrovia.
Bank Group assistance wouild also be considered to meet Liberia's longer term
electricity needs through hydropower development.
22.      The proposed fourth education project would address a critical con-
straint to development: the shortage of literate and trained manpower. In
this way it would serve directly the objectives which the Government and the
Bank share for Liberia.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
23.      Liberia made substantial progress over the last two decades in ef-
forts to expand primary and secondary school enrollments, increase the annual
output of primary school teachers, and establish education and training pro-
grams to meet manpower needs. Despite this rapid growth, the education sys-
tem is not able to meet the country's increasing demand for literate and
skilled manpower. The task remains a large one, since only about 52 percent
of primary-age children attend school, and this figure is much lower outside
Monrovia. In addition, educational efficiency and quality suffer from short-
ages of qualified teachers and supervisors, poor planning capacity, and a lack
of textbooks and teaching materials. The issue for the Government is how, in
this period of financial constraints, to improve the efficiency and quality of
the system and at the same time continue to expand access to primary educa-
tion.
24.      Access to Education.  The 52 percent primary school enrollment ratio
in Liberia is below the average for West Africa. Furthermore, access to edu-
cation varies widely, ranging from about 30 percent of school-age children in
Bong County to more than 60 percent in three other counties. Enrollment
ratios for girls are considerably lower. At the same time, the progression
rate from primary to lower secondary school is now about 75 percent, which is
very high by West African standards; and there has been a rapid increase in
post-secondary enrollments. Hence, one means to fund increases in enrollment
at the primary level in the short-run, given the severe shortage of resources,
would be to slow the growth of secondary and post-secondary school enrollments
and channel a relatively larger amount of the education budget to primary
education.
25.      Quality and Efficiency of Education.  While the educational system
produces enough graduates to meet employer demands in some fields, quality is
generally much poorer than needed. As a result, graduates are mismatched with
job requirements, expatriate workers are hired, and worker productivity is
less than warranted by the amount of training received. The low quality and
efficiency of the education system are reflected in high dropout rates, and
in the extent to which remedial programs, particularly in mathematics and
science, are offered at each level. The lack of textbooks and teaching mater-
ials is a major cause of the low quality; 60 percent of primary and secondary
students have no individual textbooks, and about half of the lower secondary
schools have no equipment or learning materials.



- 9 -
26.      The shortage of qualified teachers is another factor accounting for
low quality. Only about 30 percent of the primary and secondary school
teachers have had pedagogical training, yet there is no regular in-service up-
grading program. The annual output of trained teachers for the primary and
lower secondary levels continues to be about 200 less than required to meet
reasonable targets. Educational supervision also needs to be improved, espe-
cially in light of the shortage of qualified teachers and the general lack of
textbooks.
27.      Planning and Administration.  Although educational planning and ad-
ministration have improved considerably in recent years, the foundation for
the improvements was extremely weak, and there is need for further improve-
ment. Educational and manpower planning activities are dispersed throughout a
number of agencies with inefficient coordination. The capacity of the
Ministry of Education (MOE) to monitor and evaluate education and training
programs needs to be strengthened, and the Ministry's operating procedures,
particularly in accounting and personnel management, need to be improved.
28.      Education Financing.  The Government follows a number of sound educa-
tion financing policies. It encourages the construction and operation of
schools by non-governmental organizations and the mining and rubber conces-
sions. In general, subsidies to these schools are far less than it would cost
the Government to run them itself. Cost recovery from students for textbooks
and other learning aids is already standard practice in Liberia, and the
Government is trying to introduce additional cost recovery mechanisms into the
education and training system. The Government has also tried over the last
few years to allocate foreign fellowships according to manpower requirements
and the ability of students to pay for their own education. Despite this
constructive trend, there is room for further improvement. Overall, recurrent
expenditures on education remain low in relation to other West African
countries. Thus, allowing for overall budgetary constraints, the Government
should aim toward an increase in the share of the total government recurrent
budget devoted to education. In addition, it should begin to allocate a
larger share of its education budget to primary education and to reduce the
share for post-secondary education. Those funds which are allocated to higher
education should be used more efficiently, and incentives should be employed
to channel students into fields in which there is a need for trained manpower.
29.      Government's Strategy.  The Government seeks to (a) improve quality,
(b) develop vocational and technical education to meet manpower requirements,
(c) strengthen educational planning and administration, and (d) expand primary
education. In order to improve quality and efficiency of education, the
Government plans to upgrade teachers, provide more textbooks, and improve
vocational programs. In addition, a university development project now under
preparation will improve the efficiency of the university and address the
country's need for skilled professionals such as scientists, doctors,
engineers, and teachers. The Government will also strengthen educational
supervision, administration, and financial practices, and begin to eliminate
publicly supported pre-primary education which has not proved cost effective.



- 10 -
30.      The Government plans to continue to expand access to primary educa-
tion by five percent annually through a modest school construction program and
incentives to private school building in areas least well served by the
education system. The expansion of access to secondary education will be
slowed and quality will be improved. With UNDP/ILO help, the Government plans
to continue to strengthen manpower and demographic planning.
31.      To improve the allocation of resources for education, the Government
will, in addition to establishing new cost recovery methods, encourage
community participation in school building and maintenance and lower unit
costs by improving design and procurement of facilities and materials.
32.      The Bank Group's Role in the Education Sector.  The Bank Group and
the Government have worked together on educational matters since 1971. Goals
have been to improve (a) the Government's capacity to administer manpower de-
velopment; (b) access to education in rural areas through an adult education
program and construction of primary schools; (c) the quality of education
through help for curriculum development, educational publications, testing and
evaluation, and teacher training; and (d) the relevance of education and
training to the country's manpower requirements through support for training
in agriculture, forestry, and vocational skills. Bank assistance so far has
totalled US$17.5 million for three education projects, and more than US$10
million for project-related training in other sectors.
33.      The Project Performance Audit (Report No. 3345 dated February 25,
1981) for the First Education Project (Credit 305-LBR) concluded that the
project met most of its objectives, including enrollments in project
institutions, and had a positive impact upon manpower, educational, and
university planning, and upon project management capacity. The Second
Education Project (Loan 1266T-LBR) was completed by the revised loan closing
date of August 31, 1982. It focused on rural primary school construction, and
related teacher training, and institutional development. The project achieved
most of its physical and enrollment objectives and led to the reorganization
of MOE. However, its impact on MOE's administrative capacity, while
substantial, was less than anticipated. In addition, the primary school
workshop facilities are not being used as intended, the schools have not
served as planned as a base for adult education, and the textbook component
was not successfully executed because of unresolved policy issues.
34.      The Third Education Project (Loan 1417-LBR), which is expected to be
completed by the revised closing date of December 31, 1983, provided funds to
establish a Forestry Training Institute (FTI), a Vocational Training Center
(VTC), an Agricultural and Industrial Training Bureau (AITB), and science and
technology centers at four secondary schools. The FTI is operating effec-
tively. Three of the science centers are in operation and the last will open
at the start of the next school year in March 1983. The AITB and VTC have
been plagued with problems including contractor defaults, poor performance by
an equipment supplier, and delays caused by the 1980 coup. Consequently,
technical assistance specialists at the VTC/AITB campus had to spend their
time dealing with these problems instead of helping start the institution; and
the VTC and AITB will require further assistance to become fully operational.



- 11 -
35.      We have learned several lessons from these projects: (i) given the
narrow base from which it started, the institutional development of Liberia's
education system will require long-term assistance; (ii) any attempt to estab-
lish a textbook scheme will have to be based on a comprehensive textbook pro-
gram and should not depend on MOE for printing; and (iii) education projects
can best be implemented in Liberia through decentralized management, with the
Project Implementation Unit coordinating all financing, procurement, and ac-
counting activities..
36.      Future Assistance.  Over the long term, the Bank Group should provide
further help for institutional development, improvements in quality at all
educational levels, and expansion of access to primary education. It should
also help strengthen middle-level and professional programs providing com-
mercial, industrial, agricultural, and teacher training. As this future
assistance will take place in a period of severe fiscal constraints, high
priority should be given to improvements in efficiency. For the short-term,
the Bank should continue to support a sustainable growth rate in primary
school enrollments, and improvements in the quality and efficiency of selected
types of education and training.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background and Preparation
37.      The project was identified in December 1979, following extensive dis-
cussion between IDA and the Government of the Education and Training Review
Memorandum (No. 2620a-LBR) issued in November 1979. That memorandum served as
a basis for important policy measures taken by the Government, and resulted in
identification of the proposed project. A Government team, coordinated by the
Deputy Minister of Planning and Economic Affairs, began preparation in March
1980. The project was appraised in March 1982 (Report No. 4010-LBR). Nego-
tiations were held in Washington in October 1982 with a Liberian delegation
led by Mr. Paul Jeffy, Deputy Minister of Planning & Economic Affairs, accom-
panied by representatives of a number of ministries. Annex III contains sup-
plementary project data. Two PPF advances totalling US$800,000 were approved
in September 1980 and in August 1982.
Project Objectives
38.      The main objective of the project is to improve the quality and effi-
ciency of primary education through institutional development of the Ministry
of Education (MOE), establishment of a textbook program, and upgrading and
training of teachers. The project would also expand access to primary educa-
tion in rural areas and improve the quality and efficiency of middle-level
vocational and commercial training.



- 12-
Project Description
39.      The proposed project, to be implemented over the 1983-1988 period,
would comprise:
Part I: Institutional Development
(a) Educational planning and administration and preparation of future
projects. Technical assistance, auditing services, fellowships,
equipment and vehicles, and some incremental operating costs to
strengthen MOE's capacity for educational planning, administration,
project preparation, and project management; and
(b) Tests and measurements. Technical assistance, fellowships, equipment
and vehicles to strengthen the Liberian branch of the West African
Examinations Council.
Part II: Primary School Development
(a) Textbook procurement and distribution. Technical assistance,
fellowships, office equipment and furniture, and the purchase of
textbooks and transportation services to execute a textbook program
for the primary level;
(b) Teacher training and upgrading. Technical services provided by the
two universities in Liberia to upgrade about 2,250 primary school
teachers. To help the University of Liberia better carry out its
teacher training work, the project would finance equipment and
pedagogical materials, fellowships, and technical assistance for the
University's Department of Education;
(c) Educational supervision. Technical assistance and fellowships to
strengthen the school inspectorate. Construction, furniture, and
equipping of three regional education centers; and
(d)  School construction, furniture, and equipment.  Construction,
furniture, and equipment for about 24 new primary schools in rural
areas and the costs of supervising construction. Furniture and
equipment for about 30 existing primary schools.
Part III: Skill Training
(a) AITB and VTC. Technical assistance to strengthen the Agricultural
and Industrial Training Board. Minor civil works, technical
assistance, and consumable teaching materials for the Vocational
Training Center; and
(b) Commercial Training. Architects' fees, construction, furniture,
equipment, technical assistance, and fellowships to establish a new
215-place commercial training center in Monrovia.



- 13 -
Project Implementation
40.      MOE, the University of Liberia, and the National Youth and Sports
Ministry would manage their own components, as was done for the Third Educa-
tion Project. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in MOE would be respons-
ible for day-to-day coordination of implementation. The inter-agency Project
Coordinating Committee would oversee its implementation and advise the Project
Director. This Committee was established in 1980 to prepare the project and
is chaired by the Deputy Minister of Planning.
41.      Institutional Development.  As discussed in para. 27, further efforts
are needed to strengthen MOE's planning and management capability. In addi-
tion to providing more technical assistance, the proposed project would spon-
sor a series of workshops designed to involve the entire ministry in the in-
stitution building process. The project would finance consultants from the
University of Liberia to help carry out workshops in accounting, procurement,
personnel management, school location planning, cost analysis, and evaluation
over a three-year period. The Government has agreed to submit to the Associa-
tion for review by March 31 of each project year (i) a list of proposed work-
shop topics, course outlines and participants for the following year; and
(ii) an evaluation of the workshops conducted during the preceding 12 months
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06).
42.      The assistance to the Liberian branch of the West African Examina-
tions Council would enable it to help MOE select teacher training candidates
and identify educational priorities. During the project period, the Council
would assess, by school and region, the results of the secondary school en-
trance and leaving examinations and would develop a test for admission to
teacher training programs.
43.      Textbook Procurement and Distribution. The project would establish a
national textbook program for the primary grades. The program would be
carried out in two phases: (i) a pilot phase (July 1982 - April 1983), begun
with PPF financing, during which about 110,000 textbooks would be procured and
sold to students in Grades 1-3; and (ii) a four-year implementation phase dur-
ing which about 1.8 million textbooks would be procured and sold to students
in Grades 1-6. The program would be administered by a textbook office which
the Government has established within MOE and which would receive technical
assistance under the project. The program goal is to make textbooks for five
subjects available to all primary students by the end of the project. The
Government would purchase low-cost editions of existing textbooks through ICB
and sell them to students through private agents throughout Liberia at a price
about 25 cents higher than the cost to the Government of the books. The total
value of textbooks purchased during the project would be US$3.5 million.
However, since the program would ultimately be self-financing, only US$2.1
million has been included for textbooks in the project costs. The rest would
be financed from the textbook fund which would receive the revenues from
textbook sales.
44.      A textbook specialist financed under the PPF is currently helping the
Government initiate the pilot program and its related distribution and



- 14 -
financing scheme. By January 1, 1983, the Government will establish for the
textbook fund a special interest-bearing account in a financial institution
acceptable to the Association, and will review with the Association the
mechanism for operating this fund; by June 30 and December 31 of each project
year the Government will submit to the Association an independent audit report
on the use of funds and textbooks for the program (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.07). Audit fees would be financed by the project. As
discussed in paras. 33 and 35, the attempt to develop a textbook service under
the Second Education project made little progress.  The proposed scheme has
been prepared carefully on the basis of previous experience and has the full
commitment of the Government. Nevertheless, given the importance of the
textbook component and the lack of experience with textbooks in Liberia, the
Government has agreed to (a) submit to IDA by August 31 of each year of
project implementation, a report evaluating the execution of the textbook
program; and (b) submit to IDA by December 31, 1987 an evaluation of the
impact of the textbook program on the educational achievement of primary
students, carried out in accordance with a research design satisfactory to IDA
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08).
45.      USAID is financing a pilot Improved Efficiency of Learning (IEL)
project, involving programmed learning materials for Grades 1-6. The Govern-
ment, USAID, and IDA will together review the cost-effectiveness of these
materials over the next few years and the extent to which IEL materials might
eventually be linked to the national textbook program.
46.      Teacher Training and Upgrading.  The project would finance the up-
grading of about 2,250, or 35 percent, of the primary school teachers in
Liberia. To do so, it would help MOE establish an in-service teacher training
program to be conducted at the University of Liberia, Cuttington University
College, and the Kakata and Zorzor Rural Teacher Training Institutes. Each of
the two universities would be responsible for its own courses and for those at
the teacher training institute closest to it. The Ministry has negotiated
contracts with the two universities for delivery of the project-financed
training services. The in-service courses would be offered for two months
each year during the school vacation. The study programs for each institution
would be based on MOE's 1980 teacher-training curriculum. Educational super-
visors and inspectors would participate in the training programs to ensure
more relevant teacher training.
47.      School Construction and Furnishing.  The 54 primary schools to be
built and/or furnished and equipped under the project would be located in
rural areas. Sites have been selected according to criteria agreed with
IDA. The community in which each new school is located would provide at least
25 acres for the school site and would be responsible for clearing the site
and providing regular school maintenance. Based on the experience of the
Second Education Project (para. 33), the design of the schools has been
simplified and the workshops have been eliminated.
48.      VTC/AITB.  As noted in para. 34, construction of the Vocational
Training Center (VTC) and the Agricultural and Industrial Training Bureau
(AITB) was completed under the Third Education Project and they are fully



- 15 -
staffed. To assist both institutions to become fully operational, this
project would provide a total of 6.5 man-years of technical assistance and two
man-years of fellowships to the VTC and AITB, and consumable teaching
materials and minor civil works to the VTC.
49.      Commercial Training.  To establish the Clerical, Business, and
Domestic Training Center (CBDTC), the project would combine the training pro-
grams of three publicly supported centers which operate inefficient and unco-
ordinated programs.  The new center, under the National Youth and Sports
Ministry, would offer both pre-employment and in-service training and would
work closely with the Liberian Institute of Public Administration. The cleri-
cal and business course, comprising one to two years of training, would serve
both the public and private sectors. Students from the private sector would
pay fees similar to those charged by privately operated centers. Some would
be sponsored by firms and others would pay their own fees. The Government has
agreed to submit to the Association by June 30, 1983 a proposed fee structure
for the new center and proposals for handling and accounting for fees. When
the center is ready to start operating, the Government will terminate the
commercial and domestic science courses at the Eugenia Simpson School, the
National Clerical Training Center, and the Commercial and Domestic Training
Center, and will transfer sufficient staff from those institutions to the new
center to enable it to conduct its training programs (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.09).
50.      The Government owns the site for the CBDTC in Monrovia.  As a condi-
tion of disbursement for the civil works for the CBDTC, the Government would
provide evidence that there is adequate electricity and water at the commer-
cial training center site (draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule I,
item 3 (b)).
51.      Technical Assistance and Fellowships.  The project includes a total
of 29.5 staff-years of technical assistance and 102 staff-years of fellow-
ships. The qualifications, experience and terms of reference of the spe-
cialists would be acceptable to the Association. The fellowships would be
awarded to suitably qualified candidates who would serve at least two years in
the positions for which they were trained (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.10).
Project Costs and Financing
52.      Total project costs net of identifiable taxes and duties (from which
the project would be exempt) are estimated at US$25.1 million, including
foreign costs of US$18.6 million or about 74 percent of total. A breakdown of
project costs may be found at the beginning of this report. The estimated
base costs for construction are about US$26 per square foot for the primary
schools and US$36 per square foot for the commercial training center. Esti-
mated base costs for furniture are US$50 per student place for the primary
schools. Estimated costs for equipment are US$8 per student place for the
primary schools, and US$1,130 for the commercial training center. These base
costs compare favorably with those for similar institutions in the rest of the
region. The net-of-tax base cost of technical assistance is estimated at



- 16 -
US$10,500 per staff-month, including salary, allowances, and overhead, and is
based on recent recruitment experience of the Government and international
organizations.
53.      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 12.6 million (US$13.5 million equiva-
lent) and a loan for the equivalent of about US$9.8 million from the African
Development Bank (ADB) would finance the project in parallel. The IDA Credit
would finance the costs of planning and administration including auditing;
tests and measurement; textbook procurement and distribution; teacher train-
ing; AITB/VTC; and commercial training. The ADB loan would finance education
supervision, school construction and furniture, and project management.
External financing would cover 93 percent of the total net-of-tax costs,
including about US$5.0 million for local costs. The Government would contri-
bute US$1.8 million toward the costs of civil works, architects' fees, furni-
ture, technical assistance, fellowships, and project management.
Recurrent Cost Implications
54.      By 1988, when the project-assisted programs are expected to be fully
operational, the Government's recurrent expenditures would increase by about
US$0.8 million per year in 1981 prices. This would correspond to about 1.5
percent of the Government's 1981-1982 recurrent budget allocation for MOE, the
University of Liberia, and the Ministry of Youth and Sports. As the institu-
tional development, educational supervision, teacher training, and skill
training components would generate very little or no additional recurrent
costs, the project's impact on future recurrent expenditures would be rela-
tively small. Moreover, the Government would recover the cost of textbooks
from students. Consolidating three commercial training programs into the new
center, and collecting student fees, would produce yearly savings in recurrent
expenditures for publicly supported commercial training. To ensure adequate
budgetary funds, the Government has agreed to submit to the Association by
June 15 of each project year its proposed recurrent budget for primary
education, the textbook program, the AITB, the VTC, and the CBDTC (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.11).
Accounts and Audit
55.      As discussed in Part I of this report, the Government faces severe
financial constraints which would make it difficult for it to advance funds
for expenditures to be financed from the IDA Credit. For this reason, it is
recommended that a Special Account with an initial advance of US$300,000 from
the credit be established to cover local expenditures to be financed by IDA.
As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would open an account for this
purpose in the National Bank of Liberia (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 2.02(c, d, e, f, and g) and 5.01 (a)). The Project Manager heading
the PIU would control the Special Account, and IDA would replenish it upon
receipt of evidence of certified expenditures. In addition, the Government
would establish a separate Project Account into which it would deposit an ini-
tial US$200,000 to finance its share of project costs. Deposit of the initial
US$200,000 would be a condition of effectiveness, and replenishments would be
made thereafter on a quarterly basis (draft Development Credit Agreement,



- 17 -
Sections 3.01(b) and 5.01 (b)). With the assistance of an independent
auditing firm financed under the Project, the PIU would establish and maintain
the necessary accounts and records for the project, using internationally
accepted accounting procedures. Annual audits of each account would be con-
ducted by the auditing firm, and the reports would be submitted to the
Association for review within six months of the close of the Government's
fiscal year.
Procurement
56.      Civil works valued at US$1.35 million and furniture and equipment
valued at US$0.9 million would be procured on the basis of ICB in accordance
with the Association's guidelines. Items of furniture and equipment that
cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$75,000 equivalent, or which are
not suitable for ICB, would be procured through local competitive bidding pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association. For items valued below US$15,000, and
for which potential suppliers are limited, quotations would be invited from at
least three reliable suppliers, whenever possible. The total of items pro-
cured by these methods would not exceed US$300,000. The Association would
review the bidding and bid evaluation documents for all contracts expected to
cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more before the contracts are awarded.
Project financed specialists would be recruited according to the Bank Group
guidelines issued in August 1981. For the pilot phase of the textbook pro-
curement and distribution component, which would focus on the logistics of
distribution and sales, the Government would procure textbooks valued at
US$100,000 by negotiating with the publishers of books selected from a list
approved by MOE. Textbooks valued at US$2.0 million for the implementation
phase of the program would be procured through ICB from among prequalified
bidders who had submitted books which were found acceptable to the Govern-
ment's textbook committee.
Disbursement
57.      The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 70 percent of total expenditures for civil works, furniture, and
architects' fees - US$1,000,000;
(b) 100 percent of total expenditures for textbooks, textbook
distribution, and equipment - US$3,400,000;
(c)  90 percent of total expenditures for technical assistance and
fellowships - US$6,300,000;
(d) 100 percent of the initial deposit in the Special Account -
US$300,000; and
(e) 100 percent of the withdrawn PPF funds - US$ 800,000.
US$1.7 million of the proposed credit would be unallocated. All disbursements
from the credit account would be fully documented.



- 18 -
Benefits and Risks
58.      The project would provide about 6,600 rural primary school places,
equal to about 3 percent of the present enrollment at the primary level. It
would also improve the quality of primary education by upgrading about 35 per-
cent of the primary school teachers. In addition, it would increase the num-
ber of books available for the primary level each year from about 20,000 to
400,000 and strengthen school administration and the educational inspector-
ate. These improvements would reduce dropout and repetition rates, thereby
leading to lower costs per graduate.
59.      The project would also improve considerably the quality of Liberian
commercial training. The improvements noted above, and higher quality com-
mercial training, are expected to have important economic benefits, including
higher worker productivity, an increase in skilled manpower for meeting
priority needs, and greater employment and self-employment opportunities for
graduates. Another economic benefit of the project is that it would help the
Government establish cost-recovery procedures for several education and
training programs.
60.      The project should have a positive effect on women and on the rural
poor. First, the increase in the number of places in primary schools in rural
areas will encourage an increase in the enrollment of women and the rural
poor. Second, for the first time in Liberia, the poor will have access to
affordable textbooks for primary education. Third, a large portion of CBDTC
students will be women, and the training offered by the CBDTC should
considerably improve their prospects for employment.
61.      The Ministry of Education's lack of experience in developing and
administering a textbook program poses a risk for the project. A related risk
is that the educational supervision and the teacher training and upgrading
components may not be sufficiently coordinated with the textbook program.
These risks have been addressed by ensuring adequate techfiical assistance in
key areas, preparing each component in detail prior to appraisal, and taking
into account the lessons of the three previous Bank-assisted education
projects in designing this project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Liberia and IDA as well as the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
63.      In addition to the features of the Development Credit Agreement which
are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, special
conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:  (a) opening of a Special Account
in the National Bank of Liberia, and (b) deposit of an initial US$200,000 in a



- 19 -
separate Project Account. A special condition of disbursement for construc-
tion of the commercial training center would be evidence of adequate elec-
tricity and water at the site for the center.
64.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.      I recommend that the Executive Directors of the Association approve
the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 11, 1982



-20-                                          ANNEXI
Page 1
TARLE 3A
LIBER!-IPOIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIAEROI                          uPNRUNCE CIOPS (WEIGHTED AVE       S
AREA (THOUSANDESQ. KM.)      -       MOST RENT ESTIMATZE
TOTAL            111.4                                 MOST lJICENT          MIDDLL lNCOME            MIDDLE INCOM
AGRICULTURAL       6.1               1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMTE  b  AFRICA SOlll Ow LAAJA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE UST
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  170.0       270.0     530.0                 1053.2                   1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILO $AMS OF COAL EQU:YALENT)      82.7        533.9     425.0                 610.1                    713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, KID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  978.0        1335.0    1873.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 20.5         26.2      33.0                  28.3                     47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        3.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         12.6
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS RACHED                   2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         8.8        12.0      16.3                  54.7                     35.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    160.3        219.9     296.2                 129.9                    420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.4        46.8      47.8                  46.0                     44.3
15-64 YRS.                          52.0        50.8      49.9                  51.1                     52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6         2.5       2.4                   2.8                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8         3.1       3.4                   2.8                      2.8
URBAN                               5.4         5.6       5.7                   5.2                      4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.1        48.8      48.8                  47.2                     41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.6          16.5      13.6                  15.7                     12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4         3.4       3.4                   3.2                      2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0       101.0      97.0                  90.7                    100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  113.6        100.5     101.4/c                93.9                    108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           45.8        43.0      42.9/i                54.8                     71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        10.8        11.6      12.6/c                17.0                     18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      45.5        39.6      33.8                  23.9                     15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   44.1          49.1      53.6                  51.0                     56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           194.0       173.8     153.9                 118.5                    104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..      20.0/d                  ..                     59.1
URBAN                                ..          ..      64.Or d*                                       83.1
RURAL                                ..          ..       6.O/i                  ..                     39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..      11.0/d
URBAN                                .,                  35.0/i
RURAL                                ..          ..       6.0/..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          12600.0     11754.5   9276.5/f              14185.2                   4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1411.8/e    2671.5    1808.5/!              2213.2                   1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             711.8       592.0     623.0/f              1036.4                    641.7
URBAN                             181.3       194.4        ..                 430.8                    538.3
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..               3678.6                   2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        27.7         ..                   ..                     25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                               3./Z         ....
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                                 _j/Rh      .
RURAL                               1 
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN.                                            .
RURAL



-21 -                                   ANX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
LIBERiA- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVENGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTN OF SARARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 31.0        53.0      67.0                  83.3                    88.7
MALE                 45.0        71.0      83.0                  96.1                   104.5
FEMALE               18.0        35.0      51.0                  80.4                    72.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0         9.0      22.0                  15.3                    39.7
MALE                  3.0        15.0      31.0                  19.4                    49.3
FEMALE                1.0         4.0      12.0                  11.3 .                  29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 11.7          5.3       2.5                   4.7                    10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           32.4        35.5      42.1                  38.6                    34.1
SECONDARY                         14.2        16.5        ..                  23.4                    23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        8.9/i      15.0/k    25.4                  35.6                    43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
-OPULATION                         1.0        11.1       8.1/d                31.9                    17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       102.2       116.1     176.2                  71.8                   131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.5/1       5.2      11.6                  17.9                    44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  0.8         5.2       6.1                  19.1                    31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6         0.7       0.7                   0.6                     1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      380.4       481.8     628.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  33.9        32.5      31.6                  36.5                    10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             80.0        75.0      70.0                  56.5                    42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                10.0        12.0      14.0                  17.7                    27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               38.9        36.1      33.6                  37.0                    26.0
MALE                                51.9        49.0      45.9                  46.9                    46.2
FEMALE                              26.1        23.3      21.2                  27.2                     5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.4       1.5                   1.3                     1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        61.7/1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        72.67I
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         5.37i1
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        10.97        .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                 507.0                   279.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      75.0                 200.6                   178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     137.0                 523.9                   403.6
RURAL                               ..          ..     125.0                 203.6                   285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      23.0                    ..                    22.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted aritbuetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1974; /e 1964; /f 1975; Ij 1956.
/h   City of Monrovia only;  /i 1962; /, 1964; /k 1973; /1  Population, higher income calculated as residual;
includes expatriates.
May, 1982



- 22     -
*                                         ~~~~~ANNEX I
-nf=  M  UL OCN                                                      Page  3
Sras  Al.oheg  the de. a-  tea  free seeeo  ms-Ily judged the meet atboritat-  -   olmb.  it  besi  also be setS etst tey my so  be inor-
setiaIly o-aosbla becus  of the i1ob of staudadiss  defiitioe  sod co-pit emS by dif f-te                   -rim     inoolot    the data  ihe daaar.so
theism. maf.l to   . issrth  endre of -me-enteads    . dov  crdo. sed cbarttries cetain  -.01    diffsrs-o  heweoooorto
Therefrsos gous at () te emacooroytrop  f rho aubject country and (2) a rooncry groop  itch toncohor higher c-rg. inco.e th- rthe  o r  ro-t
of te sujectonuory (ecop  for HighIccoe   Olftoporcort" group ohro "Middle  -oom North Af.ios sod Middle toot is ohoe..e-         o   of otro-o
sooo-coturol affiiis .tothe  eeec   ru  dateIhe  verge  ar   ouoI.c.  egted arithmetic means for each indicator end shoe  oly ohrv
maoit   f h tcucise in o group hae data for thtc idiotrh       ic  the  oerg  ofcotoioio  aS  the indiotore deponds on rho oaichility of doro
etd is vt aifor-, caut ion met he soercised it relating  -oerges ofon  indicator to enotbr.  These  -.eeg. are only utofa1 in coeporicg the -ctu  of
ooe indicator. ata time sog the country et. rfrec  grutte.
ARin  (thoosan  eq.i.)                                                                       Ppulat ion po   crcl ted - oo,ura,cd  -uc1-P                     icic(coccI,
Total - Total su -coeo  coprising land aree acd icised eatore; 1979 done.                    arbn, adrrl   iie  byttthoir respccive oubar of hoopite  hodo
Eeintrl- Etiato of arioiua  os  used  apo               orl 00pemo tly               ovilable  n  ubicud pri-teco geor.  en1 d speci.giiod huepicaatdre.-
for crop. P., crs. mcbt ond kitchen gardot-o  to us. fcllo; 1979 dato.                    hilacoo ee.1  tiosPitalo cr0 etsbliahmeoc  poroenetly scoffed
by  ts iseet  -n  physici_.  Etecblioheenc  pro1dirg priocipsily cuetc-
000pgCPTA (US$)   GNmP per capico tetimetes atcret mgrkt prices. cl-                     dint career  vet included.Rcore  hospitalo. h.--oo, include  -Icth
culeted  y oem  crricmthod  o Wonld bob Ails. (1978-80 bssie); 1960.                          aed medical centers vet poreoetly eteffsd by a physician  (but by
1970, _d 980 dat.                                                                           me dial.. ssietget. eresideife. 0c.)  hich off. tr,-Patire  octos-
datiot nod poorida s limited conge of medicsl facilicice.  Pot otati
ENtRGY CONSUMPTIONI PER CAPITA - Actul  ovutinof  nmecaoegy 1(o                                cicsl puop..os. ubao hosyitels include WHO rncplgnea.osigs
gad ligait.. petrolau, ncuol gao god bydro-. eulaoad goothooro oloc-                         cod reos  hospia.le. bnol. or cuos1 hoepLtele ed medical tad metorn.icy
tricity) it kilog-e   of coal equivalent par .spits; 1960. 1970. nod 1979                   ceter.-  ipooisloed hospitals  ro included only uedor totol.
dets.                                                                                     Admiet's P"r gosile  Hod - T-1e cutor of ediesiov  to or dlchargee
from bo-pislsdioidod by the numbor of bode.
POPULATIONI AND VITAL STATISTICS
Tote1 FPo"tulo., Mid-bar (thousads) - An of July 1; 1960, 1970. and 1980                 O0h701UC
detg.                                                                                   A-eas Olee of     Iuood foarso- per hocenbuld) - tetel. rbec, and Ito-I-
Tobto Pooulaeioc(perctof cos   - getio of urban tc  onal popuiscioc;                         A hc-shold onoseof a gruup of  iniodune    h ..aac  livieg quartons
differendfoioe ofna            -opa     Ys effect co.aporbility of data                    and them  meic male.  A buodor 00 lodgor oy no my coo be ioclodsd in
am   otents; 1960. 197i, end 1960 data,                                               the.ochl   o   ttei             upct
.Polnbcie   Prjtch..eA,_o    oero   or..o  n.,  tosi urban, cod turd  -ov-te  um
fPoelecion ioto,-  2000 - Current population' proJoniac  are bae..d oc 1980i              ber of Porovee pot rot  in eli urban, ud  -us ccoupiodconioe
totul populatino by  Eg and soc en   hir mortoli ty ood f-roilicy rat.o.                dollingo, roepctivoly.N.ollingeonoludo cu-pr                   ...tei tcnrosec.d
Projotive panetere for sortelity  etoo comriso of tbreo  ov laat,.nocpid ars
ing lifoeecoyebrhtooin   itb country's per cpita% inoe                                Ace0          tietitir (prorcont of duolliego) - iotol, oran  end rura  -
lovel, aed fee.ls  ife epeianoY  tbhilising at 77.) yoare.  Tb. pora-G-Cnrotiovel denllicga nith oIotricity 10 living quartre O
mecor  f o  fol" Ityfn  elno hero threelrl.         aamn  decline in                    of total, crbao, cod rurl  eelv preyctiroly.
ferriliny e_crdiot to incom  lov   and rest faiy1pluting porfoeeen..
tohcntyi   hes onignd c  oof chote nion tobv osof vernulity                 ECAIN   -
and fri ity  troeda for projoccioc purpoooa.                                          Adluated Sc-uln-  taciot
Stationery copulatio  -I . .c tcatiovry popoavion oh-r  itengr-h seno                     Primr  cbc    ccl melo and f eel  - irons too,  ae  o  f,sol
the birth rate in rove  to the dstb tact., ond alan thog   tutr  to-r.t.                   ouoie o   Ll  gns at the primary lor1 go po-cotege  of roepnoi-t
seine co..eitt.  Thin io onbioved only afotr footillty rate, decl ino co                   primry school-ago poutin;  oraly cnclodaa cildcn agrd 6-li
the repl-neen  leve  of uit vet roproductioc 0cr. eh-n eth genrative                       ecr  hoc adJu.ted for dif feront lthgnb  of princry od..otion; for
of mee r.p.o.o. iteelf  -tecly.  Tho otetinnry pupuleniocaieo.                             countrine 6th on-r-roI odenatio  enrollmet soy  -uced 100 poroont
secimecd 0th nba  ais of the projected oheren:1neoioci   of the popilatiot                aive  tmepupila are belts or obro nha offiie1 school og.
in  b  ynr0000. and the net, of dncli- o~f fernlin to Ite cc roic-                      oodeshool - too.  mel an   ami - Cosp.tod ce ehon; secondar
en  lord                                                                                 edunatia  roquiros oc' leas  four yroof approved prlsory inscruotion
Ttac  -taio-ry p...O1-ioc io cetched - Tbs y.o. when sotione-rIy population                  provides8- gen trol   . veeiue. or crcher training inecruction. fo cvpupilo
sine till b r...ohed.                                                                     usualy of 12 to 17 ySco. of ag; cnrotepondoc  corssar  gnrai
Per so. he. - td-yser popelatie  per ,q..r. kilomecen (100 bqcior..e) of                Vocetionelonrllsot (prorc.ot of ....ond-yr  - V.c.ilneeio nsti ..cnc
totalam;16,  1 97  en"17  dec..                                                         include tenhicel, industriel, or ocher prog-en  which oP ..si  indered-
Per o. h. esiouluralland- Copunod as abuts for agiclurl ed                          ontly or as departments of senosdsnyintuio,
ony  16. 190  n  1979 dana.Puo1il-iabr rstio -_primr.n  neodr-tol toudett    oie  in
PustoAairuNur  (t..     n)   Childret (0-14 years). sorking-age (15-                 piryedocnay Levl  divided by niotro of teechere in the
hh yars)  an  rtiredtb  ynr-n  oe)s  p-o-otg.e  of mid-year popi-                          crrpodntoes
lctice  190   97.cd 1980 dt.Adul1t.licur"co race (pE   mt) -  itcortt  odu1te (sble to reed end onto)
Peuetn   rouh bce (ercent) -           Aotl- 1dno  gneh r,ot- of c-e  mid-             -oo  eoetage of tncal! edult popoletion  gtd 1) yoars ood ovor.
yser popu latioc for 1941.  96-70, ed 1920-an.
PPorlcniov Onceeh Nato  tret)-r           - govl goobcront.  of urbe  popo-              ClSIftP TION
istiou. for 1950460, 1960-70, end 197008.                                               Pveevge Care (per che.. ond p-u.ti            P - . Paseger core co.pria.. soto
Crude Birth tan  (Io theunod)- Annua live birche per oous-d of nid-yoar                       ...  .onnfog I... then  iotIi oocs   nlud.sahlo.  hearses and
.Popuaton  190  1970.  en s18  dt.                                                        cIcoyL      bils
Cruda Doech Raco (onr9thousand) -       IAoa  daatha per cho...o.d  of tind-you            Radio tRoSir (pr t :band Pporultbun) - All cyposo  aorr   c  radio
popusnio; 160,  970.nod1980 dat.                                                   broadosece to  reetrl PolrpthondofPop.to;ocoo   n
tOne- beouco   aeAvrg               ubro douh es,ena   nh  beor iu                           lic....od rooivor  Ln co-tirin. snd iv yenre  hor r-gietrotio  of radio
bar  -ea roptod-ctin- pooodifshe - noto e  present sgn-p_ciio  0.. er-tot  -s in offoct; deco for ra-o  yanre may voc beo.pcrabieaioc
tility races; usualy fire-yoe  aorgo  .nding in 1960. 1970. ad 1980.                         et coutries abolished iloensig.
Pesilt P1!Moin - Acceptor,. Ana (thusads)- Actua comber of acooptors                      Tb' R-inciro  trt sn   ooaic  - TV renolv.rt fr broadoest to
of birth_cnto  dnie   Ioo   .u.ic    of nainlfamily plec_ig ier_ gvrolpuli  prnoed popolacitn; encludos ouiioetsod 7 otvr
Fault Plecina- insct (uccoI o   cro   nni- Pcvceieg  of manio                      in  -outrine erA i. Y_cn  ohm  ncgini,t-ot  ofTat, oc  io cffoot.
en-cof o~d-berig ag  (1044 yars  nauebirih-cootno   dovicos to                 fteue...oI Circuienioc (coo rhousondrolci)-ih    thraegec-
oil saniod  -om  in sam  cot goup.                                                       c;.Ilo   of"al   oeo  i ..ooItueopap-r". doti-edtepo indil
*      ubliottiocdrocd prmriyiortordiog gesere1 o-.  It ia coneidored
FOOD AND0 HITITIIN                                                                             10 ho "'deily~'if it eppo-let loaet f oui ti-ec t nok.
Codma of Pood Produotic ocr Cacc  (1969-71-100) - Indon of pot cpla anul-toaAoe At tendanc  Coo bri     .ro  Too-Booed on h  uI                              oro
produntiot of cii food ooeedlien'. PruLduoio  olooatod adIfedad                            tirhts sold durndh or  lcoigcseeont   no In  lo
iso   aedr yncr bai.   Coeedicieocvrpimr.od  fog. sog.cca.                          .nd mebil  units.
Ivetead of suar  c.ho  st   dibloedcnetncine(..ofs   n
Ito are ooludd). Aggooget. prdunt ioc of esb  outr  io bused onABOR FORCE
oati,ioi a.vo-go prodororpricnIht.16-017,ad 1980 data.                                  Tonal labor orc  (ousds) - fconoe.lcly octioc pareove  lcclodivg
Per _,pit. oprr of      J.icio  (ororo  ofrnioota4lop.y   e                                  ore   ocsan   neipd but ecludica husesir-s,  tcudent,.t.,
energy oqiral_ctf tenfund eopplloo aviloble Lv co..iry pooc.pits                           conelog Populeci-o of all agee.  ofinctiene in vui..t coutries are
Per dcy.  Areulabo aupp l.. coprist dometic pcod-ction. ispcts I...                       vet coepucble; 1960. 1970 and 1900 daic.
styorit, . endhobgraf lo stock. crt suPppiio  onludc enisal food,Rseeds,                  PomaI. (prerct) - toso  loiboo forco to po-etcgn of tonal lboo foros.
quanicu   cod in fund prcoeing, end I.e... in dintributo.   taico-                        Aoriculturt (pr.rc-t  - Labor forco in I oig orocy  hecting und
meococoreetto od  y PAl botod cc physiologicl             --dIfr  nra  c -             funbiog Os porcoocego of cocal labor force; .960O, 19"70 oud 1960 dac.t
viny endhelthcondrg o                      tioneoe   epotatu. dbody  hogt,ntIdac  rrec      oot forc.o iv inig,Ioucoto,  coetrc
end tndi.trihociou odpf ulcic,sd all1ing 10 percouc for cost  at                            nod ooiiy   tncr acd goc ot perccocogo I, inte LahrfIr
house hold leol  1961465, 1970 end 1977 data.160  1900 go100dea
Per canto ..prly of Ironeic (Vrt po  da)-Pocconetfprcpio                                  P-ricI.ccin  Race (perceet) - cocci, malt, and lomeis - Pe196iaci   or
nteply of food per day. Set  uply o1f ted it  omd cs  bov.   to civt   totaeonpcdOsr l mole, and famalo lobor force a
quiem=c 'for al coetruet _eblished by USDA prvd   o   ilonpcocg of  _oal male  od fenelo ppuictio  of .o                                                     P ... cepciiry;
aooeeof60 gree of otal. prutein Par- dayad 20 true  ofnne  cod                     1960,  90   c   90bdc.   beer  h dio. 1'e  anopainee
poise pootein, of  hihb 10 gres  should bt anima  protei.   Thtttad                        ofscn  eoan        tnucrs of tba popu it,. and lon  time trrad.  A
erds are lover then thosa of 75 gree af total protein sod 23geeo                          fon  ,imgtss are fra  vetioIn.. soroto.
enima  poti  asat S,e for the vrnd, proposed by P0  iv che Third                        EcnmcDeoneen Ratio - Ratio of pop.letioc coder 10 and 65 end o-er I
Idlrd Pon    ure;164.1970 end 1977 dtc..c  thtoalbr  m.
Percantseroai sutlrft,, nial vApus - Protein supply of food dc-
rinsA  f tom atimeleand palate in itemper day; 196140.1970 end 1977 date.  1IN0OfE DISTRIBUTION
Child (g,16   et  acV (D.,tch__asd) - Aeto1 deaths par thouseed io                        Percentage of Peivc  Income- (both Iv ...h ccd kind) -  eotirad by riheat
.g  gau  1_4 years.h1 otdre  in this ego grop; for mst dsvlcping non                      I pernent . rih,ot 20 porgetoc..port 00 percet. od ycorest 00 paroet
toies data d-rir-d from 11f0 ocbles; 1960. 19 70 and 1980 dtto.                           of houseolds
gggos                                                                                      PO7007  TARrOt GROUPS 
Life tnsttc a. yt Birth(toe- Avera.ge nimber of yoars of life resL.oing                   Tho foitlgetacs   se tan  eppronioc  mosre of poverty lors,
cbit;1960. 1970 cod 1980 dccc.                                                       sod  hbu,ld bs interpreted mich ocanidrabis caunion.
1sf_ aocbrtl1it' Rat loon choanod), - Annua deotba of infats under one y...               tocimecd Absolte P-rni Inoelvl(5   o aII,.; -uc  erd rurlI
osgs par iatan d livo biths; 160. 1970 end 1960 date.                                   Aaluto poverty incee iss  sce1noeirlbl   bo      ii
accent to Raf.t Vcr (nroo    1o o      'lto) -  otl.~ unbot and runal - Hnm-                encitionelly ndoqanc  die  pin .....atio1 sot-food  rL.nset   invt
bar of peole (totsl. unba.  cod  en)sihnanblacet.n sa.                                    offord.bls.
meter spl   ioun  crae   afc,etr  no untrtet   bun oucotti-tad                          fe11tia d   Laiscv   oos  Inoelvet.*ne  gia  - urban andrurl1
.tr snob te eht fro  prtentad  .horhles, sprins. ad seotory ells) at                      Roa  relative povertyicm oe  itoetido  avrage par g-pite
Pecosocsgo  of their teopantim  popLntiots.  Jt no otbe  aroes.pobio                      pors-Ic  loom  of the nouncry.  Urban lorel is dsrivsd from  the rura
fovetein- nosctdpot located vet trs thr 2000 -tsr, foo  a house may he                    level   th odjuetment for higher cos of IoL       inu".      rsn
conedtrad       en   ic It anenblo  -oso  of thtec  hos. i  Iut or..tieedPctlticbloc Absolute Porr noe ee   (Itruot), - o-ben
nemnnbla- en-nens --Id leply then the hounife,; or..e   nO. rhol hea- he- -td nod                      - Poten  of pPopulaton lubo od rual  tin sr    bsit
d.oont he_ to  paud a dlproportlneata part ofsh  day  in fetching ihe                      oo
fasLly's osterted
A..emo  ftearet Bi.--aI (esroet tofrololl-total._rbe, a-d rural -
sette. ofpsop   (total, ache, aed ruro) eS d by  euae  ipoos s
pneoe.pa. of their       P. ospnir popaletiat.  Ra...nta Adepoo my include
aS4 soet-tan by ester-boon  sytc   or the us  of pit proe- and sian-
: i  - Pngoaitin tdividd by ear. of prsctLeleg pbysi-                                                     1-a.1s sod Danil Data Diviniom
tin   qenlit    a, sedine  ehoat mi-r.rety level.                                                                      frasosin Aalysin seA Projeottss Osprt-st
Pe_alatian per6-rits Psosa  - PopetltioN divided by eb.sb   of pratinio                                                                    ma ly 1962
metedfai   gS&.cts  nse  aatacat  -eo. prestini nere  et
curin  o iItine.



-23-                    ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - LIBERIA
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981                     (Z 1971 CONSTANT PRICES)
US$ Million   Z           1977-80        1981
GNP at Market Prices             930.2   100.0          0.6          -2.2
Gross Domestic Investment        189.1    20.0         -7.7         -29.4
Gross National Saving            123.7    13.0         -2.7         -36.2
Current Account Balance          -65.4     7.0
Exports of Goods, NFS            540.7    58.0          1.4         -11.3
Imports of Goods, NFS            549.0    59.0         -2.2         -16.0
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value Added         Employment 1/  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      z      000       %      US$           %
Agriculture         332.3        36.0    534.0   79.4       622.2      45.0
Industry            254.5        27.0     44.3   .6.6   5,744.9       416.0
Services            342.2        37.0     94.6   14.0   3,617.3       262.0
Total/Average    928.9       100.0    672.9  100.0   1,380.4        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                             Central Government
1980/81                  1981/82
US$ million  Z of GDP   US$ million  Z of GDP
Current Receipts                  217.9        20.1        240.5  -   22.0
Current Expenditure               237.9        22.0        271.5       25.0
Current Surplus                   -20.0         4.8        -31.0      -(3.0)
Capital Expenditures               59.1         5.0         49.0        5.0
External Assistance (net)          83.5         8.0          76.5       7.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES          1978         1979          1980      1981
(Millions US$ outstanding, end of period)
Bank Credit to Public Sector       20.7        40.8         43.8       35.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector   132.2         146.3        124.6       91.0
(Annual Percentage Changes)
Consumer Price Index 2/             7.3        11.5         13.7        8.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector    250.8         97.1            7.4     -18.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector    21.1          10.7        -14.8      -27.0
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange
rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/   Subject to further verification.
2/   Sept. - Nov. 1964 - 100        .. not available         . not applicable
July 1982



ANNEX I
-24-                       Page 5
TEADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979-81)
1979    1980    1981
(Millions US$)                        US$ Million      X
Exports of Goods, NFS           553.6   613.5   540.7   Iron ore                 308.5    55.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           587.4   614.0   549.0   Rubber                    92.2    17.0
Resource Gap (deficit--)        -33.8    -0.5    -8.3   Diamonds                  32.2      6.0
Logs or Lumber          50.7      9.0
Interest Payments (net)         -13.7   -23.9   -20.2   Coffee                    26.5      5.0
Workers' Remittances            -35.0   -32.0   -33.0   Palm Products              4.5      1.0
Other Factor Payments (net)   -87.7   -83.7   -72.0   Cocoa                       11.8      2.0
Net Transfers                    34.7    35.7    68.1   All other commodities  30.4         5.0
Balance on Current Account   -135.5  -104.4   -65.4          Total               556.8   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment 1/  -26.9   -48.9   -28.9   EXTERNAL DEBT. DEC. 31, 1980 2/
Net MLT Borrowing 2/            121.0    60.4    45.0
Disbursements                 177.1    75.8    49.4
Amortization                   56.1    15.4      4.4
Subtotal                      94.1    11.7    16.1   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed  537.3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (+)        41.4   -50.9       3.2   Total outstanding & Disbursed  537.3
Gross Reserves (end year)        ..      ..       ..     DEBT SER. RATIO FOR 1980 3/
Net Reserves (end year)
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed    8.0
Fuel and Related Materials                               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                       103.2   152.1   129.6   Total outstanding 6 Disbursed    8.0
Debt Service as Z of
Government Revenue              22.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE: US$1 - Liberian Dollar 1
IBRb/IDA LENDING (DEC. 31, 1981) (MILLION US$):
IBRD    IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed          87.9   28.8
Undisbursed                      35.8   15.2
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed 123.7   44.0
1/   Includes errors and omissions.
2/   IBRD Debtor Reporting System.
3/   Debt Service as percent of Exports of Goods and NFS.
not available
not applicable
July 1982.



- 25 -                   ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS ( as of September 30, 1982)
Loan or                                                                 Amount (US$ Million)
Credit                                                                   less cancellation
Number    Year    Borrower                 Purpose                  Bank    IDA/a  Undisbursed
Thirteen loans and four credits fully disbursed                     73.97    16.96      -
1323      1976    Liberian Bank for        Third Development
Dev. & Investment        Finance                7.0        -       2.81
1417      1977   Rep. of Liberia           Education                6.3        -       1.12
700      1977    Rep. of Liberia          Agriculture                -       7.0      1.21
786      1978   Rep. of Liberia           Rubber Development         -       6.0      3.83
839      1978    Rep. of Liberia          Forestry                   -       6.0      3.83
Development
859      1978    Rep. of Liberia          Monrovia Water Supply      -       8.0      0.93
1544      1978   Rep. of Liberia           Rubber Development       7.0        -       7.0
1573      1978    Rep. of Liberia          Fourth Highway           13.8       -       0.09
1664      1979   Rep. of Liberia           Feeder Roads             10.7       -       8.15
1765      1979    Rep. of Liberia          Decoris Oil Palm         12.0       -      10.63
1076      1980   Rep. of Liberia           Small & Med. Scale
Enterprises             -       4.0      3.24
1907      1980    Rep. of Liberia          Petroleum Exploration    5.0        -       0.41
2080/81   1982   Rep. of Liberia/NIOC      Mining                   20.0       -      17.63
1223      1982    Rep. of Liberia          Urban DTVelopmentL/        -      10.0     10.0
1242      1982   Rep. of Liberia           Lofa IIL_7                        15.5     15.5
Total                                           155.77    73.46    86.38
of which has been repaid                       19.01      -
Total now outstanding                           136.76    73.46
Amounts sold                    0.41
of which has been repaid      0.41              0.0
Total held by Bank and IDA                      136.76    73.46
Total undisbursed                                47.84    38.54    86.38
------------------------------------------
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments
1/   Not yet effective as of September 30.



- 26 -                 ANNEX II
Page 2
B.  STATEMENT  OF IFO  INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal
Year      Obligator              Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1966      Liberian Bank for      Development
Development and        Finance Company
Investment                                          0.250    0.250
1977      Liberian Bank for      Development
Development and        Finance Company
Investment                                          0.306    0.306
0.556    0.556
Less Sold                                            0.001    0.001
Now held by IFC                                      0.555    0.555



27-                   ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(Status as of September 30, 1982)
Loan No. 1417-LBR             Third Education Project: US$6.3 Million Loan as
of May 26, 1977; Effective Date: July 13,1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is expected to be completed by June 1983, about two years
behind the appraisal target date and with a cost overrun of about 10
percent. The delay and overrun were caused primarily by poor contractor and
supplier performance for the new Vocational Training Center (VTC) and the
problem of acquiring the site for one of the Science and Technology Centers.
Most of the physical objectives of the project have already been met and the
remainder will be met over the next few months. With additional technical
assistance and materials for the VTC under the proposed Fourth Education
Project, the third project institutions should be in a good position to meet
their educational objectives.
Credit No. 700-LBR            Agricultural Development (Bong) Project: US$7
Million Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective
Date: March 15, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
Project performance continues to be satisfactory. The appointment of
the new project manager has resulted in establishment of measures to improve
operations in the field and liaison with farmers. Agricultural activities
continue to emphasize target attainment, but project attention is also being
given to institution building. The project expects to surpass appraisal
estimates for acreage planted with upland rice, coffee and cocoa. Farmers'
interest in swamp rice continues to be low and the area to be planted is not
expected to exceed estimates.
Credit No. 786/               Rubber Development Project: US$7 Million Loan and
Loan No. 1544-LBR             US$6 Million Credit, both of April 21, 1978;
Effective Date: October 3, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Project has been amended (R82-74. IDA/R82-28). Amendment included
extension of the closing date, reduction of targets and rehabilitation of
processing facilities. Progress is being made in establishing the new
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4
corporation to run the factory, appointing key senior staff and marketing
agents.  Reopening of the processing plant and new prices are expected to
speed up smallholders' involvement in the full range of rubber activities.
The training officer has been appointed and is actively involved in training
staff., Farmers and laborers are being trained. Last year's replanting
targets have been achieved.
Credit No. 839-LBR            Forestry Project: US$6 Million Credit of July
28, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
There has been a perceptible improvement in staff morale since the
new managing director was appointed. Progress is being made in the building
program and the development of the trial industrial plantation site. There
are some management problems relating to purchase of spare parts, personnel
matters, etc. in the industrial trial plantation project. The expatriate
senior forestry adviser is now devoting a considerable time to resolving these
problems. New measures have been introduced to improve the collection of
forest taxes and arrears from concessions. These measures also give greater
control of the sector to the Forest Development Authority. Some 472 ha of
plantation (63 percent of appraisal) developed to date are well established.
The fellowship and training program is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1765-LBR             Decoris Oil Palm Project: US$12.0 Million Loan
Special Action                and US$2.0 Million EEC Credit, both of December
Credit No. 35-LBR             21, 1979: Effective Date: February 27, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
Project performance continues to be satisfactory with a total of 3915
acres of nucleus estate and 1002 acres of smallholders planted. The company
has been set up along commercial lines. The Board of Directors has been
appointed and by laws established. Progress in constructing smallholder
feeder roads is satisfactory but the nucleus estate road program is behind
schedule due to consultants' delays in presenting drawings and writing tender
documents. Tender proposals are now being requested for the oil mill
construction.
Loan No. 1573-LBR             Fourth Highway Project: US$13.8 Million Loan of
June 2, 1978; Effective Date: September 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Reconstruction of the Paynesville-Robertsfield road, financed by the
Kuwait Fund, was completed on schedule in July 1980. After disruptions caused
by the change of Government in April 1980, work on the Paynesville-Totota road
was resumed in October 1980 but stalled again in May 1981 when project funds
were exhausted, leaving 29 out of 71 miles and a major river crossing uncom-
pleted. The cost overrun on this component, estimated in October 1981 at some
US$9.5 million, was caused by (a) a one-year delay in start of construction
and subsequent delays due to political unrest, resulting in increased material
prices, and (b) a substantial increase in the scope of work due to faster
deterioration of the existing pavement than anticipated during the design



- 29 -                    ANEX II
Page 5
stage. At the request of the Government, the Bank is considering supplemental
financing to complete the bridge on an urgent basis. AfDB has agreed in prin-
ciple to the financing of the remaining road works as a separate project. Due
to budgetary constraints and changes in Government personnel assigned to main-
tenance operations, technical assistance for maintenance has not been effec-
tive. Draft detailed engineering and bidding documents for the Ganta-
Sanniquellie and Ganta-Tapita roads are being reviewed by the Government.
Execution of the feasibility study for the Tapita-Zwedru road has been
deferred for lack of available funds.
Loan No. 1664-LBR             Feeder Roads Project: US$10.7 Million Loan of
April 4, 1979: Effective Date: April 30, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Shortly after start-up the project was adversely affected by the 1980
change of Government and, subsequently, by a shortage of counterpart fund-
ing. To overcome the local funding constraint, the Bank has agreed to a modi-
fication of the loan to allow a higher share of Bank financing for certain
project expenditures and the establishment of a revolving fund, thus relieving
the Government of having to pre-finance the loan share of project costs (R82-
210).
Loan No. 1323-LBR             Third Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project;
US$7 Million Loan of October 7, 1976; Effective
Date: December 17, 1976; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Commitment of Loan 1323-LBR has been slower than anticipated (76
percent of the loan has been committed) owing to depressed economic activity
in Liberia and a downturn in business investment. Following the 1980 poli-
tical changes and subsequent general economic difficulties, the quality of
LBDI's portfolio and its financial position deteriorated considerably, but
they are slowly improving. LBDI is now concentrating its efforts on project
follow-up, project rehabilitation and loan recovery. It is seeking additional
financial resources to undertake a more comprehensive project rehabilitation
exercise.
Credit No. 1076-LBR           Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project: US$4
Million Credit of January 9, 1981; Effective
Date: September 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Credit effectiveness and project implementation have been delayed by
weak management in the implementing agencies (National Bank of Liberia and
National Investment Commission). A consultant study on industrial incentives
and revision of the investment code has been carried out but was not accepted
by the Bank and the Liberian authorities. A financial adviser is working with
NIC. A training adviser has completed the first part of his assignment.
Minor disbursements have been made for technical assistance only. During a
supervision mission in July 1982, a detailed implementation program for the



- 30 -                   ANNEX II
next nine months was agreed on with NIC; it will be reviewed at the minis-
terial level in April 1983. Although there are some signs of progress, the
implementation of the program is already behind schedule.
Credit No. 859-LBR            Water Supply Project: US$8 Million Credit of
January 8, 1979; Effective Date: April 2, 1979,
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project costs have escalated from $6.1 million at appraisal to $20.7
million. The Government successfully approached the Finnish Aid Agency
(FINIDA) for funds to finance the local component. Additional funding from
Finland for cost overruns is presently being explored by the Government.
Construction works are mostly completed except the treatment plant. There is
already evidence of considerable improvement in water supply in wide areas of
the city. While unaccounted-for water remains at a high level, an intensive
program to disconnect illegal consumers and delinquent accounts is underway.
Government funding of the Liberia Water & Sewer Corporation remains uneven but
increased considerably in FY82 compared to FY81. The German Government is
funding a continuation of the Management Improvement Program by three experts
through GTZ.
Loan No. 1907-LBR             Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project: US$5.0
Million Loan of November 21, 1980; Effective
Date: January 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. The seismic
survey was initiated on March 4, 1981 and was completed on schedule. Promo-
tional seminars were held in March .1982 in Monrovia and in April 1982 in
Houston, Texas. Over 100 persons representing about 40 oil companies attended
the seminars. Deadline for submission of bids for acreage was set for
September 30, 1982. The decline in oil prices and reductions in oil company
exploration budgets is affecting the interest shown by oil companies in explo-
ration in Liberia. No bids have been received to date, but companies have
asked that the deadline be postponed. The decline in interest by the industry
is possibly only a temporary phenomenon. A firm has been chosen to undertake
studies under the energy planning component and a contract is to be negotiated
shortly. Disbursements reached US$4.5 million by May 31, 1982. Availability
of counterpart financing may constitute a problem in the future for the imple-
mentation of the remaining training and equipment purchasing parts of the
project.
Loans 2080/2081-LBR           NIOC Iron Ore Rehabilitation Project: US$20
Million Loans of February 26, 1982; Effective
Date: March 18, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
All cofinanciers have made their loans effective and project exe-
cution has been initiated. The management team has been in place since March
1982 and procurement has commenced. Engineering of the surge system is 80
percent complete and civil works have started. Drawdown procedures for Bank



- 31 -                ANNEX II
Page 7
and OPEC Fund loans have been agreed. A recent landslide, which caused
numerous deaths at the workers' camp, did not affect the mining facilities.



- 32 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1
LIBERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  18 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:  Government team coordinated by the
Ministry of Planning & Economic
Affairs
(c)  Date,of first presentation
to the Bank, and date of
first Bank mission to con-
sider the project:                December 1979 and February 1980
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                          March 1982
(e) Date of Completion of
Negotiations:                     October 15, 1982
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  January 31, 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
Deposit advance of US$300,000 from credit proceeds in Special Account.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government to submit to IDA for review by March 31 of each project
year (i) a list of proposed workshop topics, course outlines and
participants for the following year, and (ii) an evaluation of
workshops conducted during the preceding 12 months (para. 41);
(b) Government to establish by January 1, 1983 a special account for the
textbook fund and submit to IDA by June 30 and December 31 of each
project year an independent audit report on the use of funds and
textbooks (para. 44);
(c) Government to submit to IDA by August 31 each year a report on
execution of textbook program and submit by December 31, 1987 an
evaluation of the textbook program (para. 44);
(d) Government to (i) submit to IDA by June 30, 1983 a proposed fee
structure for the CBDTC, and (ii) terminate commercial and domestic
science courses at, and shift staff from, three existing institutions
(para. 49);
(e) Government to provide evidence of adequate electricity and water at
the commercial training center site (Condition of Disbursement, para.
50);



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) Recipients of fellowships to serve at least two years in positions
for which they were trained (para. 51);
(g) Government to submit to IDA by June 15 of each project year its
proposed recurrent budget for primary education, textbook program,
the AITB, the VTC, and the CBDTC (para. 54); and
(h) Government to (i) open a Special Account in the National Bank of
Liberia, (ii) deposit an initial US$200,000 in a separate Project
Account to finance its share of project costs (Conditions of Effec-
tiveness), and (iii) replenish the Project Account on a quarterly
basis thereafter (para. 55).



i



~BRD 16544
AUGUST 1982J
-  J                       -/1S,tli     AA                                                                                   LI BERIA
B ekr                                                       FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
S   I  E   R   R   A                                                                           oS hr.rr                                                                         p uernCeond y
-ao                                Go O                                    ;-       e         7                                                               S~ ~~~ t ig,eee Pea ei  Cs err
L   E   0    N    E               !                            -                                                                                              ,      Voet-in  Tralnieg Center
-'r                                                                    nered Rooes
Zoiri                                                                              riit -L eroce RRooes
,                            (            5      zXonco                                )   BorA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ee1g\.4  runnero rifl  A rpnil
\ \\                                 OSanoy-e        SaayLre                                           * t>                        ; \ :           Ntoa;   a
EOBERTS4,,OR0   /t4 ,,        he                                                                   a     .-                              SANNKpeu   JEL  -
-                                                       PuE    XtSn    .            g t/) ,z    /ride'  Mrr O -  S
N>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rlleo Kbe  romounea                                                                          12. ap  <         River
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                beshl ,__,   cete                                          7    Corir (spartes)Jt
" ~C~5                                                        kkri      *          de                                 KCoNr, ..r I ,ip id_
ROBBBtSha RT   Beenpepaeor                                                      ' ances ep  (                                                                  // /Gi  rpri  )
hceelneotesdro -2-                                                          Kob  \                            g'/                                
thereporrecwhchtisatachea ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ Sk.                                                                                          C. my|,.-           
The denomGf at.ons used 3nd .+he                                                                                  r0                                              R   Y
o no tmps. o thepitrofteaerln            Crrr a                                         \n -a C n                                           I.):
vfere reanev rceites peeriatee b anrie                                                   vres   t,_ 
tor recentac tri whch ensodatearibeerVP
ic ric,                                                                          -.eg. cc tire p_.e                                           .      're                        i
~'   MAURITANIA   t                                                                                                                                   K   t     
THt .,SENEGA$ )    All                                                        A L  MA   /  j                                                                                  A    S  T
G2AMBia2.A ,,-s  _> Nx                f(UPPiREENVPLLtr-                                                                          0 pearire  .                                 '                              p5
GUINPA-EPlSAU7'           fS          -/VLTA_                                                                                   _ ?tiI
GUINEA    ?'mr-q.e                                                             _,                                            cToer. .Nyte
-(    '2v    COAST         I                                  'OEESx                                                                                Zdk_                             ?
MenreERe    --              0             .           o       d0  20          40      c O                                        Setteeu<                                 8.k  Beeb
C      10     20     30      AS     50     60~~                                                   
A    .  T !) ',  --    ,' - _   ,,                           ~~~~~~MIILES                                                                              Gooen Tear
BUCHANfz                                                                                                           ii-      HARPEBci



