INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
China: Shanghai Environment Project
June 17, 1994
The above-captioned Staff Appraisal Report for China: Shanghai
Environment Projectis a revised version of the report prepared following
the approval of the Project by the Executive Directors of the Bank and
does not include information deemed confidential by the Government of
the People's Republic of China.



a



3 77 7- C /p4
ep 7C77 f%
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
June 7, 1994
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE WDfRLD AWilS
PbOUCY 0-i DISCLOSURE Of IWRMTON
rwou DOC.-MENT U AVAIABE TO 7E PVUX.
Environment and Urban Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Region



I



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AIDAB    - Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
BOD        - Biological Oxygen Demand
CIDA, Inc. - Canadian International Development Agency Incorporated
COD        - Chemical Oxygen Demand
DC         - Direct Contracting
DRA        - Design, Review and Advisory (Consultants)
EA         - Environmental Assessment
EPB        - Environmental Protection Bureau
GDP       - Gross Domestic Product
GIS        - Geographic Information System
GNP        - Gross National Product
ICB        - International Competitive Bidding
lTC        - International Tendering Company (of Beijing)
JGF        - Japanese Grant Facility
LCB        - Local Competitive Bidding
MSW        - Municipal Solid Waste
NEPA       - National Environmental Protection Agency
NS         - Nightsoil
ODA        - Overseas Development Administration
PC         - Project Component
SAA        - State Audit Administration
SAES       - Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences
SCC        - Shanghai Construction Commission
SEMC       - Shanghai Environmental Monitoring Center
SEP        - Shanghai Environment Project
SEPC       - State Environmental Protection Commission
SEPO       - Shanghai Environment Project Office
SESAB      - Shanghai Environmental Sanitation Administration Bureau
SFB        - Shanghai Finance Bureau
SlTC       - Shanghai International Tendering Company
SM         - Shanghai Municipality
SMG        - Shanghai Municipal Government
SMI        - Surveying and Mapping Institute
SMWC       - Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company
SOE        - Statement of Expenditure
SS         - Suspended Solids
SSC        - Shanghai Sewerage Company
SSPCC      - Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company
SUCIS      - Shanghai Urban Construction Information System
SUPDRI   - Shanghai Urban Planning and Development Research Institute
SWWTP   - Songjiang Wastewater Treatment Plant
TA         - Technical Assistance
UNDP       - United Nations Development Programme
WHO        - World Health Organization



I



CH]NA
SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
LoAN AM PRoJEWr SummARY
Borrower:         People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:      Shanghai Municipality (SM)
Amount:           $160 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Onlendsng Terms:  From the Government of China to SM: 15 years including 5 years
of grace at 90.63 percent of the Bank's standard variable interest
rate, and a commitment charge at the Bank's standard rate, with
SM bearing the foreign exchange risk. From SM to implementing
public utilities: 15 years including 5 years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate, and a commitment charge at the
Bank's standard rate, with the utilities bearing the foreign exchange
rislc.
Project Description: The project would support achievement of a sustainable
environment for the long-term economic and social development of
Shanghai, while providing a competitive framework for industrial
growth. In particular, the project would focus on improving and
protecting drinking water quality and controlling pollution. The
main components would comprise: (a) construction of a major raw
water supply intake, pump stations, multibarrel supply main,
improvements to existing water treatment facilities and distribution
network; (b) engineering protection measures in the Upper Huangpu
River Catchment; (c) wastewater collection and treatment in
Songjiang Town; (d) construction of a water quality monitoring
facility; (e) investments in mechanical plant and civil works to
improve solid waste, nightsoil and hazardous wastes collection and
disposal; and (f) technical assistance and training, including
preparation of a water supply master plan, geographic information
systems development in support of planning and the Shanghai
Reform Action Plan, water supply management and environmental
monitoring, institutional strengthening, feasibility studies and future
project preparation.



- ii -
Project Benefits:    The sustained provision of a safe potable water supply for Shanghai
is a prerequisite to enable sustained public health and economic
growth.  The project would enhance the Shanghai Municipal
Government's (SMG) economic reform efforts through
implementation of fiscally rational charges for water and wastewater
services. The reform momentum would be supported by the
sectoral breadth of the proposed investments, including water
quality and catchment protection, select wastewater treatment, solid
waste and nightsoil management and technical assistance and
training.
Risks:            Project risks include (a) possible reluctance by SMG or Songjiang
County government to approve and maintain the tariffs and service
charges needed for financially sound operations; (b) possible
unwillingness by SMG to enforce the pollution control laws with
respect to financially weak enterprises, resulting in continued
increases in pollutant levels in the Huangpu River; (c) delays by
SMG in implementing the institutional development and training
components; and (d) a serious toxic effluent spill that would close
the new water system intake for a period. Project design has been
structured to minimize these risks.
Project Costs:L&                                   L&      Foreign  IQ1
(S million)
Drinking Water Quality Protection   111.8  115.0  226.8
Upper Huangpu Pollution Control    25.4    22.3   47.7
Songjiang Pollution Control      13.1      16.0   29.1
Water Quality Monitoring          1.2       2.7    3.9
Solid Waste/ Nightsoil Management  26.9     5.9   32.8
TA, Training & Studies            2.7       8.1   10.8
Total Base CostLk            181 I1 10          1
Physical Contingencies           21.2      18.9   40.1
Price Contingencies              59.0       6.4   65.4
Total Project Cost          26u        125.3  456 
La Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.
a Includes cost of land ($15.0 million).



Hna ndg Plan:                                    LQa    EQe     IQI
($ million)
Shanghai Municipality         261.3      35.3  296.6
IBRD                            0.0      160.0  160.0
IDal                       26k3      1925   456.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                        1995  1226   1997    1    1229
(S million)
Annual                         20.0  46.9  54.8  24.9   9.6    3.8
Cumulative                     20.0  66.9  121.7  146.6  156.2  160.0
Poverty Category:      Not applicable.
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Map:                   IBRD No. 25283






v -
CONTENTS
1   The Envirommental Sector .1........................... 
A.  Environmental Conditions in China                                   1
B. Institutional Framework.                                             2
C.  Environment Sector Issues and Problems.                             3
D. Government Strategy.                                                 4
E. Bank Group Operations in the Sector.                                 5
F.   Bank Group Role and Sector Lending Strategy.                       6
2 Project Background.                                                       8
A. Project Area.                                                        8
B. Economic Reform in Shanghai.                                         9
C.  Environmental Conditions in Shanghai .10
D.  Project Formulation .............................                  14
3   The Proposed Project ...............................    16
A.  Project Objectives ..............................                  16
B.   Project Description ..............................                16
C.   Project Cost Estimates ............................               19
D. Financing Plan ............                                         20
E. Procurement .............                                           20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited China in June/
July 1993. Project team members included Mr. Geoffrey Read (Senior Sanitary Engineer
and Task Manager), Mr. Terry Hall (Sanitary Engineering Consultant), Mr. Lynn
Holstein (GIS Consultant), Mr. Edward Ke-Siong Hum (Environmental Engineering
Consultant), Mr. Patrick McCarthy (Financial Consultant), Miss Linda Mih (Operations
Assistant), Mr. Tore Semb (Solid Waste Consultant), Dr. George Taylor (Chemical
Engineering Consultant), Mr. Lee Travers (Economist), and Mr. Zhang Zhun (Institutional
Consultant). Assistance was also provided by Mrs. Chongwu Sun (Operations Officer),
Miss Xiaolan Wang (Secretary) and Mr. Xiaoyong Wu (Interpreter) of the China Resident
Mission. Peer reviewers for the project were Mr. Arthur Bruestle (Environmental
Specialist), Mr. Daniel Coyaud (Senior Sanitary Engineer), Mr. Harvey Garn (Economic
Adviser), and Mr. Graeme Lee (Senior Financial Analyst). The managing Division is
EA2EU. The Division Chief is Ms. Katherine Sierra and the Acting Department Director
is Mr. Zafer Ecevit.



- vi -
F.   Disbursement . ................................                              23
G.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement ....................                      24
H.   Environmental Impact Assessment  ....................                        25
I.    Project Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision  ....          ........       25
4   Project Mnagement and Implementation  ..................                           27
A.   Project Management ...........              ..................               27
B.   Implementation Responsibilities ......................                       28
C.   Status of Engineering  ..........           ..................               30
S   Finance       .................... ....................                           31
A.   Financial Management ...........................                            31
B.   Accounting  ................................                                 31
C.   Audits  .....................................                                32
D.   Municipal Finance ..............................                             32
E.   Water Supply ................................                                34
F.   Sewerage Services ..............................                             37
G.   Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management ......              ...........         39
6  Economic, Social and Environmental Considerations .40
A. Project Justification .40
B. Least-Cost Solution .40
C. Project Benefits .40
D. Economic Benefits .41
E. Environmental Impact .43
F. Affordability .44
G. Project Risks .44
7   Agreements Reached and Recommendation  .................                          45
ANE
1.  Organization of Environment Protection in China ...............                   49
2.  Water and Air Quality Standards in China  ...................                      50
3.  Detailed Project Description ............................                         52
4.  DetaiedCostEstimatesj/ .............................                              69
5. Schedule of Contract Pacges Z/.
6.  Terms of Reference: Institutional Strengthening for SUCIS Implementation           71
7.  Disbursement Sche dule .........   .....................                          76
8.  Land Acquisition and Res        ntPan   .................... 
9.  EnvironmentalAssessment ..............................                            90
10. Implementation Schedule ..............................                           104



- vii -
11. Environment Improvement Monitoring Indicators ...............    105
12. Organization of Shanghai Municipal Government ...............    108
13. Shanghai Municipal Government Financial Projections 2/ .
14. Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company Financial Projections 2/....
15. Songjiang Wastewater Treatment Plant Financial Projections 2/.
16. Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management Financial Projections 2/ .
17. Economic Analysis  .................................    109
18. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ...    ......    120
TABLES IN TEXr
3.1 Summary Cost Estimates ..............................                        19
3.2 Financing Plan  ....................................                        20
3.3 Procurement Arrangements .............................                      22
5.1 Summary of Past Municipal Finances  ......................                   33
5.2 Summary of Key Financial and Monitoring Indicators for SMWC       .....      35
5.3 Summary of Key Financial and Operating Indicators for SWWTP       .....      37
5.4 Summary of Financial Performance of SESAB  .................                 39
6.1 Economic Cost Summary for Project Alternatives ...............              42
IBRD 25283
1/ Select details deleted at Borrower's request.
2/ Not shown, at Borrower's request.



46



- 1 -
1. THE ENVIRONMENTAL SECTOR I/
A. EVmONmwAL CONDmONS iN CHINA
1.1         Chinese cities have been undergoing remarkable growth and transformation
since the early 1980s, reflecting trends in the economy at large. After two decades of
stagnation, urban population and incomes have been increasing along with industrial
production. The urban population has grown by about 5 percent a year during the 1980s,
and now represents about 30 percent of the total population of China. However, the
growing urban population and industrialization are causing widespread pollution in China,
and environmental problems have become a central issue in Chinese cities. Water
pollution poses the most severe problem and directly affects human health. Many
important water resources, which are already scarce in most regions, have been seriously
threatened. Further, few countries are as dependent on coal as China, with annual
consumption of about 1 billion tons. The combustion of bituminous coal is causing serious
atmospheric pollution from airborne particulate and sulfur dioxide emissions in many
industrial areas. Moreover, growing toxic/hazardous wastes are not effectively controlled
and are emerging as a major environmental problem. In the absence of adequate
environmental management programs, increasingly adverse environmental degradation has
had serious ramifications, including health hazards and undermining of sustainable
development in the longer run.
1.2        The Chinese authorities are aware of the need to address environmental
problems and recent official policy calls for economic development to proceed in tandem
with environmental protection; China is confronted with the dilemma that promoting
economic growth, alleviating poverty and protecting the environment are not always
compatible, presenting  difficult choices.   The Government's good  intentions
notwithstanding, there remains considerable scope for improvements in integrating
environmental management effectively into macroeconomic policies and economic
development plans. In this connection, there are ample opportunities for economic and
enterprise reforms as well as sound investments that meet both environmental and
economic objectives, as exemplified by the proposed project. However, there are also
important instances in which economic and environmental objectives conflict to some
extent. In particular, increased energy and raw material production are both a corollary
of economic growth and a major cause of pollution. Further, some of the priority cleanup
programs are, by nature, not economically productive. As a result, environmental
protection objectives are often compromised by the scarcity of natural and financial
I/  For a detailed discussion, pleasw e China Environmental Strategy Pa' (Report No. 9669-CEA,
Apl 1992).



resources. Thus, the Chinese authorities are faced with the challenge of formnulating a
coherent development strategy that would strike an appropriate balance between the two
often-conflicting objectives of economic development and environmental protection.
B. INSXtIrlEONAL FRAMEWORK
1.3        EnvironmentalManagement Arrangements. The institutional framework
for environmental management in China provides a solid foundation for designing
approaches for dealing with environmental and ecological problems.  The State
Environmental Protection Commission (SEPC), which includes the heads of all relevant
ministries and agencies, and ultimately the State Council, are at the apex of decision-
making on environmental policy in China. SEPC provides policy direction at times and
resolves inteagency disputes, but it meets only quarterly and hence cannot regularly set
overall policy. The Commission relies heavily on its secretariat, the National
Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA), which was established in 1979. This agency
is responsible for all aspects of environmental policy, although it shares authority with
other agencies for certain specific natual resources. NEPA liaises with the environmental
protection units within most of the ministries and state entrprises, and sets the overall
policies and regulations governing provincial and municipal environmental protection
bureaus (EPBs).  &nnc  I presents the institutional framework for environmental
protection in China.
1.4        Environment Policies.  Most environmental protecdon policies are
implemented at the subnational level. Provinces are responsible for implementing national
policies and are authorized to act in the absence of preemptive national standards; where
warranted by local conditions, they may also impose more stringent standards than those
required by the national government. In all provinces and municipalities and in most
counties around the country, EPBs have boen established under local environmental
commissions headed by a deputy governor or deputy mayor. The municipal, urban district
and county EPBs are the basic units responsible for ensuring compliance with
environmental regulations and standards within their respective jurisdictions. They collect
pollution charges from all enterprises that discharge wastewater, ecept those owned by
the Provincial or Central Governments, from which the pollution charges are collected and
used by the provincial-level EPBs.
1.5         Several Central Government ministries are concerned with water quality and
water pollution control, and they support NEPA in carrying out its environmental
protection work As an example, the Ministry of Water Conservancy is responsible for
determining policies on the allocation and management of surface water resources in the
country. Its policies are implemented through river basin commissions, provincial water
conservancy departments and water conservancy bureaus at various local government
levels. The Ministry of Geology and Minerals and the corresponding local government
departments and bureaus are responsible for allocation and management of groundwater.
The Ministry of Construction is responsible for urban and regional planning, and
infrastructure development planning at the national level. It provides guidance to the
provinces on land use planning and infrastructure development, including urban water



-3 -
supply and sewerage. The Ministry of Public Health is responsible for providing guidance
to local public health bureaus on drinkdng water quality regulations.
C. ENVIONMEWNT SECTOR LSS     AM PROBLEMs
1.6         Issues in Enviromnental Management. While China has taken a major
step in the right direction for the management of pollution from new investments, much
improvement is still needed in enforcing these requirements. Current industrial cleanup
measures include mostly end-of-pipe treatment. Insufficient consideration has been given
to more efficient and economical methods for reducing pollution through recycling, process
modification, and the use of less polluting inputs. Often when it is realized that
technological upgrading is the preferred solution, lack of financial resources, especially
foreign exchange, is an impediment. In many cases when highly polluting factories are
relocated (a process that is tantamount to closing an existing factory and constructing a new
one), the same industrial process is used in order to take advantage of existing (old)
equipment, and technological changes are deferred until funds become available. In
addition, environmental assessments (EAs) are often performed too late to influence project
approval, location and design, and are too narrow in scope (project-specific rather than
region-specfic). For existing polluters, financing constraints and access to low waste
technologies are major hindrances to accelerating the pace of pollution abatement.
1.7         Existing istmments. A pollution levy system that imposes penalties for
exceeding national (or local) standards has been introduced to deter pollution. However,
the present fee is set considerably below the marginal cost of treatment to meet the effluent
standards, and most enterprises pay the fee rather than invest in treatment facilities. While
the level of the levies was increased by about 40 percent in 1991, it remains inadequate.
Further, there are shortcomings in the present structure of the pollution levy system.
Thus, the EPBs have to resort to administrative measures to compel the enterprises to bring
their pollution discharge levels into compliance with the standards. In the wake of
deepening enterprise reforms and increased decision-making at the enterprise level, both
the levels and structure of the pollution levies need to be adjusted to provide greater
financial incentives to the enterprises to protect the environment.
1.8         Pollution levies are the major source of funds for environmental protection.
Approximately 20 percent of the levy is retained by the local EPBs to cover their operating
costs and the balance (80 percent) is returned to industrial enterprises for financing
pollution abatement measures. However, the demand for pollution control funding far
exceeds the amounts available from the levies at the current level of charging and
collection. While the efficiency of levy collection in the municipalities generally is high,
collection efficiencies in rural county areas are often less than 50 pecent.
1.9         The Government is aware of these problems. The environmental agenda of
the 1990s calls for enhancement in the formulation, monitoring and enforcement of the
pollution levies. In this connection, a complete review of the levy charging, collection and
allocation system is being undertaken by NEPA with the assistance of international
consultants under a Japanese Grant Facility (aGF)-financed study. The objective of the



- 4 -
study is to design a system that would be more consistent with the polluter-pays principle
and reduce the administrative burden on the EPBs through improvements in economic and
financial mechanisms for environmental management. Recommendations emerging from
this study would be implemented first on a pilot basis in selected cities, including
Changzhou in Southern Jiangsu.2/ Effective implementation of the pollution levy system
would enhance the financial incentives for pollution control and increase mobilization of
resources for environmental protection.
1.10        Desin Parameters for Future Policy and Investments Initiatives. Much
needs to be done to improve the environment, but financing constraints would probably
impede pollution control for at least a decade. Therefore, the real issues are: (a) how to
increase mobilization of resources for the sector; (b) how to utilize the scarce resources
efficiently and effectively to address prionty problems; and (c) how to improve
(i) environmental policy, (ii) the economic system and (iii) the govemment bureaucracy
to maximize pollution prevention and exert greater control.
D. GovERNMET STRATEGY
1.11        In rocet years, the Central Government and local authorities have tamen
greater initiatives to improve the environment.  Since 1979, China has enacted a
comprehensive set of environmental laws, regulations and standards. The framework
established through the Environmental Protection Act of 1979 and subsequent regulations
provides for environmental quality standards for different types of areas, pollution
discharge standards and levies for effluent exceeding the standards, and environmental
impact assessments and permits for most investment projects. Air and water pollution
control regulations were introduced in China in 1979 and 1988, respectively. The Chinese
standards for water and air quality are summarized in Annex 2. Solid waste legislation is
still in the draft stage, while legislation pertining to industrial and hazardous waste
management is incomplete and too recent to be effectively enforced.
1.12        The Chinese Environmental Protection Law and ancillary regulations
emphasize 'prevention first (including requirements for EAs on new projects) and
"polluter pays principle" (including fees, fines and compensation payments). With a view
to achieving its environmental goals, the country has adopted an eclectic assortment of
command-and-control and incentive methods. Command-and-control approaches include
EAs; integration of environmental protection measures at project design, construction and
operational stages (the "three simultaneous actions' system); relocation of industry away
from densely populated urban areas; requirements for low-polluting technologies in selected
industries; centralized treatment of wastes; vehicle inspection programs; and a system of
responsibility contracts (with both voluntary and binding agreements with industrial
enterprises and municipalities to achieve environmental targets). Economic incentive
approaches include a pollution levy system (the principal method); taxes on polluting
Z   Refer- Mi  Sother Jisn  EnviromulProtectionProjec-(Staf AppmiaReportNo.11370-
CHA).



- 5 -
inputs; and tax incentives. In addition, a system of standards and permits is the basis for
the pollution monitoring and control program.
1.13       Recent urban growth and industrialintion are a direct reflection of the
economic and institutional reforms being pursued by China. Recognizing environmental
improvement as an essential part of economic development, the Government has
established decentralized institutional and financial frameworks and sanctioned large
investments in the sector. While public revenues consist predominantly of general tax
revenues shared between the central and local governments, the Government recently
introduced several new taxes and charges that local governments can fully use for
environmental invetment and operations, and has also been encouraging increases in user
charges and other means of financing environmentally conscious urban services.
1.14       Under the current decentralized system, the Central Government limits its
role largely to guidance and interregional coordination, giving local governments great
latitude to manage local affairs.  Subject to tax-sharing arrangements and annual
consultation, the local governments are largely free to allocate resources according to their
priorities. NEPA and the Ministry of Construction provide policy and technical guidance
for local governments on infrastructure and environmental issues and sanction major
investment projects. Even on technical and regulatory matters, the central agencies no
longer set rigid norms but allow local agencies to adapt guidelines and standards to local
circumstances. The Centrl Government, in fact, encourages them to take initiatives and
experiment with new technical and managerial solutions, not only to allow local adaptation
of national guidelines but also to find "best practices" through diverse experimentation and
disseminate them in other parts of the country. The reforms and experiments promoted
include increases in public service tariffs, and loan financing for pollution reduction
investments.  Various innovations and large-scale investments for environmental
improvement have been pursued most actively in coastal areas, consistent with the Central
Government's development strategy that identifies these areas as the forefront of economic
growth and interaction with the rest of the world.
E. BAK GROUP OpTnIoNs IN TE SEcroR
1.15       The Beijing Environmental Project (Credit 2312-CHA/Loan 3415-CHA) and
the Ship Waste Disposal Project (Credit 2391-CHA/Global Environmental Facility, Grant
No. TF28613) were the first two free-standing environmental operations in China. The
Bank Group is currently involved in eight projects in the water supply/sanitation sectors
in China that also bear on pollution control. These projects, which are now being
implemented satisfactorily, are: (a) Shanghai Sewerage Project (Credit 17794CHA/Loan
2794-CHA); (b) Medium-sized Cities Development Project (Credit 2201-CHA/Loan 3286-
CHA); (c) Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project (Credit 2219-CHA); (d) Tianjin Urban
Development and Environment Project (Credit 2387-CHA); (e) Changchun Water Supply
and Environmental Project (Credit 2457-CHA); (f) Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project (Credit 2336-CHA); (g) Southern Jiangsu Environmental Protection Project (Loan
3582-CHA); and (h) the Zhejiang Multicities Development Project (Credit 2475-CHA).
Despite the complexity of these ongoing projects, and the initial unfamility of project



-6 -
officials with some Bank Group procedures, implementation has proceeded satisfactorily;
the recently approve Environmental Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2522-CHA) will
assist in strengthening central environmental management capacity. Two environmental
protection projects (in Liaoning Province and Hubei Province) are currently under
preparation. Our ongoing dialogue in this sector is expected to remain productive and
open.
1.16       The ongoing Shanghai Sewerage Project is being implemented successfully.
Though behind schedule, this major infrastructure investment is being well managed, and
constructed under difficult logistical and technical conditions. There have been delays with
implementing financial improvements including wastewater tariffs; these difficulties have
been resolved and the Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG) has demonstrated
commitment to active financial reforms.
1.17       The common elements of good practice learned under the above-mentioned
projects include (a) commitment of the concerned municipal authorities to implement the
projects; (b) strong project management offices, with adequate staff to provide the requisite
coordination among multiple agencies; (c) thorough project preparation based on detailed
feasibility studies prepared by competent agencies and consultants; and (d) well-prepared
bidding documents and technical specifications. On the negative side, the Bank has noted
a tendency for China and its local governments to postpone the implementation of effective
cost-recovery policies, and for the need to adopt long-term plans for the provision of
essential urban environment services. The proposed project would address these issues.
F. BANK GRouP ROLE AD SECR LENING STATEGY
1.18       The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy, presented to the Board in
August 1993, highlighted the need to support economic reform while assisting
infrastructure modeniization in an environmentally responsive manner. The recently
completed Environmental Strategy Paper (Report 9669-CHA, April 1992) concluded that
Bank environmental assistance to China should focus on long-term protection and resource
conservation programs, strengthening sector management and supporting financially
efficient least-cost environmental investments. It found that most environmental and
pollution problems are best addressed at the municipal and regional level because
individual sources of environmental degradation and, therefore, appropriate solutions would
vary. These correspond to the principal centers of economic investment decisions. It is
also around these levels of government that China's environmental policies and institutions
are centered. Thus, it is at the municipal and regional levels that the Bank's comparative
advantage can be used most effectively. As industry is by far the main source of pollution
in the country, the Chinese authorities have accorded the highest priority to environmental
protection in targeted industrialized cities and regions, including the Shanghai Municipal
region, where the proposed project is located.
1.19       Environment-related sector work carried out by the Bank has included (a) an
urban sector survey in Liaoning Province in 1985, in cooperation with the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) and the Australian International Development Assistance



- 7 -
Bureau (AIDAB); (b) an urban sector study in Zhejiang Province (Report No. 6612-CHA),
August 3, 1987; (c) a study of the efficiency and environmental impact of coal use in
China (Report No. 8915-CHA), March 20, 1991; and (d) the Environmental Strategy Paper
for China (Report No. 9669-CHA), April 1992. That paper identified major environmental
issues and their underlying causes, assessed China's policies and institutional capabilities
for addressing them, recommended areas for improvement, and proposed a multiyear
program of environmental assistance. This included a series of environmental operations,
including the proposed project. We have recently commenced work, with Norwegian
Government assistance, preparing with the central and the Hubei and Yunnan provincial
authorities an urban environmental services sector study, which will strengthen our sectoral
understanding and underpin future lending.
1.20        In addition, various environmental studies are in progress: (a) three studies
under the Global Environmental Facility related to (i) the reduction of greenhouse gas
emissions; (ii) loss of biodiversity in China; and (iii) ozone-depleting substances; and
(b) five national studies under the JGF-financed technical assistance program to NEPA,
covering (i) the environmental impact assessment process; (ii) waste minimization and
pollution control in rural industries; (iii) hazardous/toxic waste management;
(iv) economic/financial mechanisms for environmental management (para. 1.10); and
(v) environmental information management systems. Finally, under the Metropolitan
Environmental Improvement Program financed by UNDP and the World Bank, Beijing
Municipality regularly exchanges information on environmental management and
technology with four other Asian member cities.
1.21        It is concluded that Bank participation in the environment sector in China
would continue to focus on (a) developing appropriate strategies for improving and
maintaining the quality of the environment (these would seek to optimize total benefits,
including those from opportunities to improve the efficiency of industrial production and
the use of natural resources); (b) prioritizing the measures needed for environmental
improvement, identification and preparation of plans for the most cost-effective
investments; (c) financing high priority investments that would produce environmental
benefits in the short term; (d) strengthening the institutions responsible for enforcing
environmental protection regulations, as well as those that operate community systems for
environmental pollution abatement; and (e) promoting sound financial and cost-recovery
policies to sustain healthy operation of pollution abatement.






- 8 -
2. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. PROJECT APEA
2.1         Shanghai Municipality (SM) is located in the Changjiang (Yangtze River)
delta plain (see IBRD Map 25283). The municipality comprises a total area of some
6,340 square kilometers (km2), consisting of 12 urban districts and 9 rural counties.
Shanghai's built-up urban areas covers 280 km2. Ten contiguous urban districts (referred
to as the "city proper") cover 254 km2, and two additional urban districts contain the
satellite towns of Minghang and Wusong. The city proper ranks as one of the densest
settlements in the world with 30,945 inhabitants per km2. Shanghai is the second-largest
metropolis in China, with a total 1991 population of about 14 million, significantly greater
than Beijing (10.40 million) and Tianjin (8.77 million), and exceeded only by Chongqing
in Sichuan Province; the urban population is about 9 million. The natural population
growth rate was just 0.37 percent in 1990, but growing numbers of contract workers are
migrating from remote rumral areas to fill jobs in Shanghai and increasing the demand for
services. By the year 2000, the municipal population is projected to rise to 17 million,
with an urban population of 11 million. Shanghai is one of three provincial-level
municipal governments in China, the other two being Beijing and Tianjin, and is
administered by the Shanghai People's Municipal Government (SMG).
2.2         Shanghai is one of the country's oldest and most important industrial bases
and is a center of commerce, science, higher education, trade, and finance. It is the
largest port in China and lies at the head of the Yangtze Economic Zone (comprising the
Municipality of Shanghai and the Provinces of Jiangsu, Zhejiang, and Anhui), which
contains 182 million people and accounts for some 25 percent of the national output of
industry and agriculture. This region has the potential of becoming one of the largest
centers of international trade and commerce in the Pacific region. The total labor force
of the Municipality is estimated at 9.5 million, of which 11 percent work in the primary
sector, and 60 percent and 28 percent in the secondary and tertiary sectors, respectively.
Shanghai gross domestic product (GDP) per capita reached Y 6,663 in 1991, well above
the national average of Y 2,163.
2.3         Growth in the secondary and tertiary employment sectors is expected to
expand the labor force to 10.5 million as Shanghai enters the twenty-first century. Its
gross national product (GNP) in 1991 was Y 85.8 billion (4.3 percent of the national total),
with 71 percent of value added coming from primary and secondary industry. Rapid
growth in tertiary or servces sector activity is expected to contribute to increased GNP
growth in future. Shanghai's average labor productivity of Y 29,183 in industry, average
annual wages of Y 3,375 per capita, and savings of Y 1,118 per capita are among the
highest in China. Its labor force is among the best educated but also the most elderly in



- 9 -
China and employers face steeply rising pay-as-you-go pension costs. Shanghai industry
generated Y 20.2 billion in pretax profits in 1990 (down from Y 22.8 billion in 1988) with
a net fixed asset base valued at Y 43 billion and working capital of Y 31 billion. These
statistics, however, mask an economic growth rate that has been declining during the past
decade and was among the slowest in China in 1990 (GNP grew by only 3.5 percent that
year compared to the national average of 5.2 percent-a situation that is typical of China's
heavily industrialized, sta-owned local economies). In common with a national surge in
economic performance during the first half of 1992, Shanghai showed a 14 percent
increase in GNP on an annualized basis. However, the sustainability of strong economic
growth would depend on the effectiveness of the economic reform program on which
Shanghai has embarked, as well as the availability of adequate infrastructure and efficient
management of the residual public sector and its finances.
B. ECONOMIC REFORM IN SHANGHAi
2.4         Policy reforms introduced over the past decade have already significantly
increased the exposure of Chinese state industries to market forces, with measurable
impacts on productivity growth. Serious constraints remain, however, to the more
fundamental economic restructuring of the urban industrial sector. Shanghai embodies
many of the more serious problems of obsolescent industrial structure and locational
pattern, and has also suffered from the deteioration of its physical infrastructure base and
neglect of pollution control. Although the city was initially slow to adopt system reforms
launched in other coastal provinces, the current ladership is developing ambitious
programs for the transformation of Shanghai's economic base, including multisectoral
reforms and an enhanced role for foreign investment.
2.5        In 1990, with Bank assistance a process was begun to (a) articulate
Shanghai's comprehensive reform policies, (b) establish detailed action plans for
implementation of reforms, and (c) to link the future public expenditure program and
institutional development of Shanghai to the reform program. The main elements of
Shanghai's proposed reform program are in the areas of enterprise reform, fiscal and
financial reform, and housing, infrastructure and social security reform. Other important
related elements of the program included pricing and trade reform, land reform, and labor
market reform.
2.6         The integrated economic reform planning process was initiated in February
1991 following an International Workshop on the Economic Development of Shanghai
sponsored by SMG, the World Bank, UNDP and the Ford Foundation. The workshop's
conclusions recommended an agenda of reform priorities that were subsequently developed
by SMG into a target timetable of preliminary objectives and measures covering four
geneal, interrelated areas of action. This preliminary action plan was further developed
by SMG through consultation with experts provided by the Bank and UNDP in September
1991 into the Shanghai Economic Reform Action Plan. This Plan was subsequently
adopted by SMG as its guiding policy framework and recognized by the Bank as a basis
for its future operations in Shanghai, including the proposed project, two tansport projects
and one industry project.



- 10-
2.7         Mobility of labor and the development of a land market are also objectives
of the reform program and would have an effect on the demand for new facilities and
services. In addition, SMG is placing great emphasis on the development of Pudong, on
the east bank of the Huangpu River. This development is seen, inter alia, as facilitating
enterprise restructuring, as well as urban restructuring in the existing city center, and is
therefore regarded as contributing directly to the economic reform program goals.
C. ENVIRONMETAL CONDOM SIN SHANGI
2.8         The principal environmental problems in Shanghai derive largely from the
discharge of domestic and industrial wastewater to the Huangpu River and its tributaries,
and from the poor management of solid and hazardous wastes, and of the considerable
quantities of nightsoil. There is extensive urban and industrial development in the
catchment area of the Huangpu close to its confluence with the Changjiang and extending
many kilometers upstream. Studies completed in late 1992 concluded that, though
significant, air pollution was not a major environmental issue to be addressed through this
project. Studies on this issue related to vehicular emissions would be carried out under
the soon-to-be-approved Second Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project.
2.9         Water Quality. At present, 98 percent of Shanghai's potable water supply
is derived by abstraction from the middle and lower reaches of the Huangpu, and
89 percent is abstracted at intakes at or close to Linjiang, in the middle reaches of the
Huangpu, where the river is tidal. The Linjiang intake, some 46 km upstream of the
confluence with the Changjiang, was completed in 1987 as the first stage of a program by
the Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company (SMWC) to improve the reliability of the
water supply by relocation of the major water abstraction upstream of pollution discharges.
The longer-term intention was to relocate the abstraction point further upstream, at Da
Qiao, some 30 km from Linjiang.
2.10        The current abstraction of water from the Huangpu is of the order of
20 percent of the average net river flow of some 315 cubic meters per second (m3/sec) and
exceeds the 90 percentile flow. Thus abstraction of this magnitude would be expected to
cause back flushing of pollution from further downstream in the river, impacting upon the
water quality.
2.11        Water movement in the Huangpu and its effect upon water quality at
Linjiang is complex, principally because of the strong tidal influence of the Changjiang,
the flow of which is about 100 times that of the Huangpu, and also of the exploitation of
the upper Huangpu and its tributaries for irrigation. Under conditions of low natural flow
in the Huangpu and high tidal influence of the Changjiang, there can be net upstream flow
in the Huangpu for periods of up to several days. As a result of these effects, water
quality at Linjiang is influenced by four categories of polluting discharge to the Huangpu
as follows: (a) discharges upstream of Linjiang; (b) discharges short distances downstream
of Linjiang that move upstream on a daily basis as a result of the normal tidal regime;
(c) discharges further downstream that are carried upstream to Linjiang only under more
extreme tidal conditions and at low natural flows in the Huangpu; and (d) accidental



- 11 -
pollution as a result of spillages or discharges either at factories located along the banks
of the Huangpu or from ships (some 7,000 vessels per day pass the Linjiang intake).
2.12        The quality of water abstracted at Linjiang and passing into supply is under
threat in respect of the presence in the raw water of chemical species (such as chlorinated
organic hydrocarbons) that are toxic or give rise to other health effects, and of chemicals
that give rise to taste and to odor problems (such as phenol). These problems are
exacerbated by the high concentrations of ammonia in the water that necessitate high
dosages of chlorine for effective water disinfection.
2.13        Concentrations of phenol are measured routinely at a number of locations,
including Linjiang, and data indicate that concentrations at Linjiang frequently exceed the
Chinese standard by a substantial margin and are at levels at which taste problems would
occur. There are wastewater discharges close to Linjiang, in particular that from the
Wujing Coke Works (10 kIm upstream of Linjiang), which could contain significant
concentrations of phenol.
2.14        A serious problem occurred at the Wujing Coke Works in March-June 1989
when there were significant discharges of phenol to the Huangpu. Data for the Huangpu
indicate that at Linjiang levels of phenol were up to 10-15 times the Chinese standard
during this period. It is important to note that phenol is derived primarily from industry
and is the only pollutant of this type that is routinely monitored in the Huangpu, largely
because of its particular importance in terms of taste problems in potable water. Its
presence on a regular basis must, however, be regarded as indicative of a range of other
chemicals of industrial origin that are not routinely monitored but that could also give rise
to taste or health problems.
2.15        The problems of water quality in the Huangpu under conditions of low
natural flow, even at the proposed abstraction further upstream at Da Qiao, have been
recognized for many years. Taihu Lake, to the west of Shanghai (see IBRD Map 25283),
is the source of the Taipu River, a tributary of the Huangpu. In 1992, the Bank appraised
a project to increase the storage capacity of Taihu Lake, primarily for flood protection
purposes, but also as a multipurpose water resource facility. It is now proposed to
discharge water, at rates up to 300 m3/sec from Taihu Lake to the Taipu River at times of
low natural flow in the Huangpu (typically about two months per year) to augment flows
in the Huangpu and thereby sustain water quality at the abstraction point.
2.16        The Government of China has arranged for the construction of the Taipu
Pumping Station (for which a sum has already been allocated in the IDA-financed Taihu
Basin Flood Control Project-Credit 2463-CHA) of a capcity at least 300 m31sec.
Shanghai Municipality (SM) has acquired the right to require discharges of water from
Taihu Lake to safeguard the quality of water abstwacted for supply (para. 5.13).
2.17        Upper Huangpu Basin Management. The Upper Huangpu Catchment is
a network of waterways that receive polluting discharges from domestic, industrial and
agricultural sources. A protection zone has been declared, covering a 5 kam wide corridor



- 12 -
on either side of the river, in which pollution control is more rigorous and development
more controlled. However, its effectiveness is limited because it is based mainly on
administrative boundaries rather than true catchment area. If water quality is to be
sustained at a level acceptable for potable supply then pollution control needs to be on an
integrated river basin basis, and covering all forms of pollution. Efforts are ongoing under
the Taihu Basin Project to establish coordinated water quality control measures for all three
provinces in which the river basin is located (Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Shanghai).
2.18        There are significant discharges of industrial wastewater upstream of the
present intake at Linjiang and there is also proposed development further upstream, notably
in Songjiang County. In particular, the population of Songjiang Town is expected to grow
by 36 percent by the year 2000 and this, coupled with associated industrial development,
would substantially increase wastewater flows. Analyses of the industrial data bases
covering some 600 major polluters with discharges exceeding 10,000 m3 per year have
been undertaken. The analyses have identified 33 most polluting industries, determined
on the basis of annual discharge loads covering Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD),
Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD), Suspended Solids (SS), Phenols and Oil. At
negotiations, SMG provided an updated prioritized list of the 33 most polluting factories
in the Wujing, Minhang and Songiang drainage basins, together with a phased program
for the factories to meet the effluent discharge standards by the end of 1996 [pan.
3.5(b)(i)].
2.19        Municipal Solid Waste Management.  The overall responsibility for
municipal solid waste collection and disposal rests with the Shanghai Environmental
Sanitation Administration Bureau (SESAB) within SMG. However, in keeping with
Central Government policy of economic reform, there has been a decentralization of such
responsibility during the past few years to the 14 district governments maling up SM.
Generally, the streets of Shanghai are commendably clean, but there are serious
environmental and technical problems.
2.20        Of the approximately 12,000 tons of domestic, commercial and mixed
industrial wastes generated in Shanghai daily, only 60 to 70 percent of this is formally
collected and disposed of, but generally not in an environmentally acceptable manner.
Disposal of the remainder, mainly mixed industrial waste, is largely controlled. The
building and construction industry generates a further 3,000 tons a day of debris that
requires disposal.
2.21        The current solid waste management system involves a complex system of
collection, transfer, and transportation by water and land to the ultimate disposal sites that
are landfills located considerable distances from Shanghai. The collection vehicle fleet is
old, the downtime of vehicles is unacceptably high, and replacement of vehicles and
upgrading of the collection system is overdue. The dock transfer stations and the barge
system are unsatisfactory from an environmental point of view because of spillage of waste
into the water during loading/unloading operations.



- 13 -
2.22        Waste tends to pile up during inclement weather conditions when the barges
cannot be used to transport the waste to the two major landfills, Jiangzen and Laogang.
Instead, an emergency disposal site on the banks of the Huangpu is used, and wastewater
from this site is a potentially serious source of pollution. Also, the Jiangzen landfill,
which is located close to a proposed new airport, is polluting nearby water wells.
Therefore, a solid waste transportation and disposal system needs to be developed that is
environmentally sound and provides a reliable service under all weather conditions.
2.23        Efficient management of the collection and disposal of waste is impeded by
the Government's labor and purchasing regulations, resulting in an overemployment
problem, and paradoxically, underutilization of the transportation fleet, and inadequately
equipped workshops and facilities. Management is also compartmentalized, precluding cost
effective and efficient operations and the development and use of an integrated management
system.
2.24        Nlghsoil Management. About 6.3 million people, or roughly 80 percent
of the urban population, are served by nightsoil and septic tank collection and disposal
systems. The remaining 20 percent of the urban population are served by piped sewerage
systems, which generally are combined sewers in the city center and separate sewers in the
outskirts.
2.25        About 2.5 million people use bucket latrines and are responsible for
emptying their buckets at designated dumping stations, or in some cases, into septic tanks.
Public toilets connected to septic tanks are emptied on a regular basis (weeldy or monthly),
while the tanks serving housing developments and corporations are emptied every 2 to
6 months. Nightsoil dumping stations are emptied daily.
2.26        The contents of dumping stations and septic tank sludge are collected in
trucks and transported to barges for transport to storage facilities in the adjacent counties
for subsequent use in agriculture. Because of limited capacity of the holding tanks at the
docks and the storage tanks in the adjacent districts, substantial quantities of sludge are
discharged into the rivers. Also, sludge barges cannot be operated during inclement
weather conditions, and during these situations, the sludge has to be discharged into the
rivers.
2.27        The present nightsoil management system, responsibility for which rests with
SESAB, entails a number of health risks during emptying of buckets at dumping stations,
in the handling, collection, transportation and storage of the sludge, and particularly in
application of raw nightsoil to agricultural fields. The sludge should be stored for a
reasonable period before being applied to fields, but the present treatment practices are
inadequate in reducing pathogenic and other microorganisms.
2.28        SMG is committed to a policy of phasing out nightsoil collction and
disposal because it is unhygienic and costly, and because demand is declining as a result
of the preference of farmers for commercial ferdlizers. In the interim, the management
and operation of the service need to be improved, through improved maintance,



- 14 -
replacement of old and worn-out equipment, expanded storage facilities, and improved
financial and management information systems.
2.29        Environmental Management. Responsibilities for the various facets of
environmental management rest with a number of agencies within SMG. There is potential
to improve planning and coordination among this multiplicity of agencies within SMG to
avoid overlapping responsibilities, and to improve information flow, forecasting and
analysis capabilities through additional computerization and training.
2.30       The water and sewerage companies and other agencies providing
environmental services would need to keep their tariffs and other service-related user
charges constantly under review in order to meet the financial objectives set for them by
SMG. In particular, the pollution fees payable by industry for noncompliant discharges
of wastewater and emissions to atmosphere would need to be adjusted to generate an
environment where polluting industries would find it more economic to provide pollution
controls and waste treatment than to continue to pay the pollution fees. A detailed
evaluation and review of the pollution fee system is the subject of a JGF-financed technical
assistance program to NEPA.
2.31        In order to fund the massive amounts required for Shanghai to improve its
environment and service delivery, the proposed project would also complement the
initiatives being taken under the Shanghai Reform Action Plan (para. 2.6).
D. PRojEcr FORmATION
2.32        Recognizing that industry is the main source of pollution in China, the
Central Government has targeted Shanghai for receiving attention to improve its
environment. It therefore approached the World Bank for support in funding a long-term
program of investments in environmental protection in Shanghai. At the same time, SMG
recognizes that the sustained protection of the environment is a prerequisite for long-term
economic growth and considers that appropriate investments in environmental protection
are of the highest priority. Presently however, agencies are required to plan only up to
the year 2000. This time horizon is considered too short given that the proposed project
investments are expected to be completed by 1998. Therefore, understandings were
obtained during negotiations from SM that implementing agencies would be authorized and
instructed to adopt a 15-year planning horizon for infrastructure investments.
2.33        SMG has appointed a leading group to direct the preparation and execution
of major urban projects, including the proposed project (para. 4.1). The group has
directed that the project be prepared and managed by the Shanghai Municipal EPB. The
Bank and bilateral agencies were approached for assistance in funding project preparation.
As a result, the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom is
funding a major Design, Review and Advisory (DRA) consultancy to review the initial
preparation work already undertaken by SMG, and to assist in the completion of the
remaining work supporting SMG-appointed consultants. It is also funding the Shanghai
Reform Action Plan (para. 2.6), which would provide advice and assistance to the



- 15 -
Shanghai Finance Bureau (SFB) toward improving the financial management of SMG. A
Japanese grant is supporting the initial project preparation of the Solid Waste and Nightsoil
Management component, and Norway is supporting a Hazardous Waste Management
Study. AIDAB is supporting the preparation of the Shanghai Environmental Master Plan.
The Canadian International Development Agency Incorporated (CIDA Inc.) is supporting
the development of two systems: (a) a strategic planning information system and (b) a
water supply management information system. The terms of reference for (a) the Solid
Waste and Nightsoil Management, (b) the Hazardous Waste Management, and (c) the
Shanghai Environment Master Plan studies are included in the Selected Documents and
Data Available in the Project File (A=enx 1a.



- 16 -
3. THIE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. PRoJEr OBjEcivEs
3.1        The principal objective of the project is to provide a sustainable environment
for the long-term economic and social development of Shanghai, while providing a
competitive framework for industrial growth. In particular, the project would focus on
ensuring an adequate supply of potable water and halting the rapid deterioration of surface
and groundwater quality in Shanghai. Specific objectives of the project are to:
(a)   provide safe drinking water;
(b)  identify and control sources of pollution;
(c)   expand water quality monitoring;
(d)  improve municipal solid waste and nightsoil management;
(e)  improve municipal, environmental and utility management and finances; and
(f)   support training, feasibility studies, and future investment project
preparation.
3.2         The objectives of the project all contribute to protecting the Huangpu River
and its tributaries, the principal source of water used by Shanghai citizens and industry.
Unacceptable water quality at current intakes necessitates the relocation of the main
municipal water intake. The new intake itself would soon become unusable were not a
number of complementary investments undertaken to protect it. These include sewerage
systems in Wujing and Minhang districts and Songjiang county, those areas closest to the
new intake site, to divert and treat wastewater flows; improved handling of nightsoil and
municipal solid waste to end direct dumping in the river and leaching from landfills;
expanded water quality monitoring to allow more rapid response to impending problems;
and institutional strengthening to provide municipal managers with the information and
skills needed to sustain improved water quality.
B. PRoJEn   DESCRPTnON
3.3         The project would comprise financial and policy initiatives, and planning and
management reforms, supported by an investment program of environmentally oriented
capital works and related institutional strengthening. The financial and policy initiatives
developed as part of project preparation would focus on: (a) improving operational



- 17 -
efficiency of urban services; (b) mobilizing resources through tariff increases and service
charges; and (c) long-tenn environmental planning and investment programs. A summary
description of the various project components is given below. A detailed description is
given in Annex 3.
3.4        The investment program would comprise the following project components
(PCs). The indicated costs include physical and price contingencies.
(a)   PC1-Drinking Water Quality Protection ($291.7 million).  The
constuction of a major raw water supply system for SM, including an
intake on the Huangpu River at Da Qiao (about 5.4 million ml/day
capacity), pumping stations, multiple-barrel low-pressure supply main (about
25 km multiple-barrel culverts varying from 3.25m x 3.75m to 2.2m
diameter), surge protection, telemetry and controls, selected improvements
to the existing treatment facilities and distribution network, and the
strengthening of operational and financial procedures.
(b) PC2-Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution Control ($64.6 million).
The protection and improvement of water quality at the new Da Qiao intake
and conveyor system through the construction of wastewater conveyance
systems in Wujing and Minhang neighborhoods, including the provision of
secondary and teriary sewers.
(c) PC3-SongJiang Wastewater Pollution Control ($38.9 million). The
protection and improvement of water quality at the new Da Qiao intake and
conveyor system through the extension of the domestic and industrial
wastewater collection and treatment facility in Songjiang Town, including
provision for system connections.
(d) PC4-Pollution Sources and Water Quality Monitoring ($4.7 million).
The construction of a water quality monitoring laboratory at the new water
supply intake, together with associated sampling and analytical equipment
to monitor quality in the Upper Huangpu Catchment.
(e)   PCS-Municipal Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management ($43.9 million).
The development of appropriate solid waste and nightsoil management
strategies, and investments in mechanical plant and civil works for system
improvements.
(f)   PC6-Institutional Strengthening through Technical Assistance and
Traning ($12.8 million). Support for and strengthening of environment,
financial and utility management and operations, training, preparation of a
Shanghai Water Supply Master Plan, geographic iformation systems
development in support of plannig and the Shanghai Economic Reform
Action Plan, water supply and wastewater management and environmental
monitoring, istitutional strengthening of SESAB including the management



- 18 -
of workshops and landfill operations, feasibility studies and future project
preparation. Two key environmental studies currently under way and
financed by others, namely the Shanghai Environment Master Plan and the
Hazardous Waste Management Study, would also be implemented in
paadel.
3.5         The following assurances and understandings were obtained during
negotiations:
(a)   PCI-Dnkldng Water Quality Protection:  rf) the understanding that
SMWC would, in planning the investments, make adequate provision for the
eventual expansion of the Da Qiao intake and conveyor to Linyiang, in order
to caterforpossible abstractions to meetfuture demand beyond the existing
capacity of 5.4 million m'Iday; and rii) the assurance that SMWC would,
under its normal program of works, and within a timeframe acceptable to
the Bank, compkte the following items of work, which are outside of the
scope of this comnponent but which are essential to ensure the compkte
integrity ofproject investments: (a) Longxi Treatment Work; (b) trunk main
program (c) Linjiang pumps and main to Yangsi, (d) Linjiang Teatment
Works; and (e) Linjiang Tunnel and Shafts;
(b)   PC2-Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution Control: r) the assurance that
SMG would cause the 33 most polluting industries to complete process
changes, or construct pretreatment facilities, within a time-bound Action
Plan agreed with the Bank, in order to meet relevant discharge standards;
and ri) the understanding that SMG would cause industries in Wujing and
Minhang neighborhoods to pretreat as necessary and make connections to
the 'northern trunk sewer, when it is completed;
(c) PCS-Municipal Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management. (i) the assurance
that SMG would inplement a time-bound Action Plan, agreed with the Bank,
for connectng existing septc tank and nightsoil facilites to the city and
county sewerage systesu, and rii) understandings that SMG would (1) cause
SESAB to, before December 31, 1996, assume responsibility for providing
collection and saife disposal services for nonhazardous industrial solid
wastes on request from industries, and (2) ensure that treatment and
disposalfacilities for nonhazardous industrial waste have been established
before the temporary landfills are closed down.
(d)   PC6-Instiulonal Strengthening through Technical Assistance and
Training: the assurance that SMG would implement a tme-bound Action
Plan, agreed with the Bank, forprocurement, management, inplementaton
and monitoring of this component.



- 19 -
C. PROJECr CoSr ESIATES
3.6           The estimated cost of the project, including contingencies, is Y 3,972.5
million ($456.6 million). The foreign exchange component is Y 1,698.7 million ($195.3
million), or about 43 percent of project costs. A summary of cost estimates is given in
Table 3.1. Detailed cost estimates are provided in Annex 4.
Table 3.1: SummARY Cosr ESsnmAs
S Total
* million                3 jjllg         2 Foreign  bass
Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total exchange    coat.
Drinking wvter qualty
protection            972.4  1,000.3  1,972.7  111.8   115.0  226.8   50.7        64.6
Upper Buangpu catch-
meat PC               221.4   193.6   415.0  25.4   22.3   47.7   46.7            13.6
SongJ iag vastavater
PC                   114.4   139.1   253.5  13.1   16.0   29.1   54.9             8.3
Water quality mai-
toriag                 10.1    23.7    33.8   1.2    2.7    3.9   70.1             1.1
SolUd vast & night-
aoil ma-ag _ nt       233.5    51.2   284.7  26.9    5.9   32.8    18.0            9.3
TA, tra4i4ig & studies   23.6    70.8    94.4   2.7    6.1    10.8   75.0            3.1
Total Baseline
Costs          1.575.4  1.47L.7 3.054.1  1l.l  170.0  ZSl.A    48.4         100.0
Physical contingencias   185.0   164.0   349.0  21.2    18.9   40.1    47.0         11.4
Price contingencies     513.4    56.0   569.4  59.0    6.4   65.4    9.8            18.6
Total Prosect
Costs          2273.0  1.698.7  3.972.5  261.3  195.3  456.6   42.8         130.1
3.7           Project cost estimates are based on the DRA  (para. 2.33) consultants'
engineering designs, reflecting price levels prevailing in June 1993. The unit prices were
derived through a reconciliation of data from the following sources: (a) quotadons
obtained from manufacturers and supplicrs; (b) prices of goods and works from recent
contracts in China; (c) construction costs according to prices published by the Government,
adjusted for inflation; and (d) the findings of a 'Cost and Rates Study' commissioned by
the Bank during project preparation, funded partly by the Bank-administered Australian
Trust Fund. Physical contingencies of 15 percent have been applied to base costs for most
components, except for the Drinking Water Quality Protection component where
10 percent has been adopted to reflect the confidence level of the estimated cost of this
component. To provide for inflation during project implementation, the following annual
escalation rates have been applied:  for local expenditures (excluding civil works),
5.45 percent for the second half of 1993, 12 percent for 1994, 9 percent for 1995,
8 percent for 1996, 7.2 percent for 1997, and 6.5 percent for 1998; for civil works,
15 percent for the second half of 1993, 20 percent for 1994, 12 percent for 1995,
10 percent for 1996, and 8 percent for 1997-98; for foreign expenditures, 0.65 percent for
the second half of 1993, 1.2 percent for 1994, 2.4 percent for 1995, 3.2 percent for 1996,
3.4 percent for 1997, and 3.2 percent for 1998. Project management and engineering
overhead costs of 12 percent are also included.



- 20 -
D. FINANCING PLAN
3.8         The financing plan for the project is shown in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: PRoJEcr FNANCING PLAN
($ million)
Source                      Local      Foreign      Total       Percentage
Shanghai Municipality       261.3        35.3       296.6          65.0
IBRD                          0.0       160.0       160.0          35.0
Total                  261.3       195.3       456.6         100.0
3.9         The loan would be made to the People's Republic of China. The loan of
$160 million equivalent would be for a 20-year term, including a 5-year grace period at
the Bank's standard variable interest rte. The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to SM
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, at 90.63 percent of the Bank's standard
variable interest rate for a 15-year period including 5 years' grace, and a commitment
charge at the Bank's standard rate, with SM bearing the foreign exchange risk. SM would
onlend the proceeds to SMWC, the Songjiang Wastewater Treatment Plant (SWWIP) and
the Shanghai Sewerage Company (SSC) at the Bank's standard variable interest rate for a
15-year period including a 5-year grace period.  These agencies would bear the
commitment charge and the foreign exchange risks. Assurances wre obtained during
negotations on the onlending temzs and conditions between SM and SMWC, SSC and
SWWTP. E&cep: for PC5-Mwucipal Solid Waste and Mghtsoil Management component,
which would befuy financedfrom local budgetary allocations, SM would make the loan
proceeds available to the remaining implementing agencies on a grant basis through
budgetary allocations. The execution of subsidiary loan agreements between SM and (a)
SMWC, (b) SSC, and (c) SWWTP, satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of
effectiveness.  A separate Project Agreement, including operational, financial and
monitoring covenants, would be executed between SM and IBRD. Approval of the Loan
Agreement by the State Council is a condition of loan effectiveness.
E. PROCUREMENT
3.10        Procurement procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the World Bank
were agreed with SMG. The Shanghai ntenational Tendering Company (SITC) and the
International Tendering Company of Beijing (ITC) have been appointed procurement agents
for the project. Both companies are experienced and competent procurement agents that
are familiar with, and have had recent and relevant experience in, international competitive
bidding (ICB) work on World Bank Group-financed projects. The tender documents used
in the project would be based on the standard bid documents that were prepared by the



- 21 -
Ministry of Finance and approved by the World Bank Group. All works and goods would
be packaged whenever practical to attract maximum international competition.
Prequalification of bidders would be undertaken for all civil works contracts with an
estimated value over $10.0 million each and for all goods contracts with an estimated
value over $1.0 million each, except for supply of steel plates and Yangshupu chemical
equipment replacement. Annex S lists the Schedule of Contract Packages and the method
of procurement, and Table 3.3 summarizes the procurement categories and the expected
procurement methods. The contract packages and the method of procurement have been
agreed with the Shanghai Environment Project Office-SEPO (pam. 4.1).
3.11        Civil Works. There is a total of about $272 million of civil works, of
which about $210 million (77 percent) would be procured using ICB procedures. Qualified
domestic contractors under ICB would be eligible for a 7.5 percent preference in bid
evaluation, in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. ICB procedures would
be used for all civil works conats of estimated value over $10.0 million (i.e., about eight
contacts). All remaining civil works are too small, scattered or scheduled too far apart
to be packaged to be of interest to foreign firms. Of the remaining works, about $45
million would be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures and the
balance by other procedures (not Bank financed).  The LCB procedures recently
promulgated by the Government have been reviewed and approved by the World Bank
Group. Interested foreign bidders would be allowed to bid for LCB contracts. Direct
contratng (not Bank financed) would be used for contracts to be made with the local
power company to provide electricity supplies to the pump stations, buildings and facilities
under the project and for conveyor contracts at railway crossings.
3.12        Equipment ad Materials. There is a total of about $104 million of
equipment and materials in the project, of which about $68 million (66 percent) would be
procured using ICB procedures. Qualified domestic bidders would be eligible for a
preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent or the actual customs duties and import tames
payable by a nonexempt importer, whichever is less. All equipment and materials with
individual contract values of over $200,000 equivalent would be procured using ICB
procedures. Equipment and materials with individual contract values of $200,000 or less
would be awarded using LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts costing
$50,000 or less up to an aggregate amount of $0.5 million would be procured through
international or local shopping procedures consisting of at least three price quotations.
3.13        Technical Assistance and Training. All consultants retained under the
project would be recruited in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency-
August 1981." Local consultants and counterpart staff would be engaged or assigned by
the concerned agencies of SMG. Consultants have already been retained to provide for
project preparation and design (pam. 2.33). SMWC has signed a contract with a
consulting finn for the construction management and supervision of worls to be
constructed under PCI-Drinking Water Quality Protection. The Terms of Reference for
this and the other technical assistance and training assignments are in the Project File. A
typical terms of reference for institutional strengthening of the Shanghai Municipal



- 22 -
Table 3.3: PRocuREMNT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million, including contingencies)
Procurement method
Project Component                  ICB       LCB    Other      NBE      Total
Civil Works
Water Supply                    169.8      6.9      -         5.9    182.6
(47.6)   (1.9)                       (49.5)
Water Quality Monitoring          -       -         -         1.9       1.9
(0.0)
Wastewater                       40.2    38.4       -         -        78.6
(11.3)  (10.7)                       (22.0)
Solid Waste/Nighteoil             -       -         -         9.1      9.1
(0.0)
Equipment & Materials
Water Supply                     56.5      1.5      -         4.1      62.1
(56.5)   (1.5)                       (58.0)
Water Quality Monitoring          1.7     0.3       -         -        2.0
(1.7)   (0.3)                        (2.0)
Wastewater                       10.1     -         -         -        10.1
(10.1)                               (10.1)
Solid Wastehtight.oil             -       -         -        30.0     30.0
(0.0)
Other
Land Acquisition                  -       -         -        15.0      15.0
(0.0)
Institutional Development,        -       -        12.8       -       12.8
Studies and Training                            (12.5)             (12.5)
Implementation Support            -        -        5.9      46.5     52.4
(5.9)              (5.9)
Total                        278.3    47L1      18.7    112.5    456.6
(127.2)  (14.4)   (18.4)             (160.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the Bank. Other procurement
methods include international and local shopping (for the industrial pollution
component and small equipment for water quality monitoring, solid waste), and
consultant services under technical assistance and traiiing. NBF = Not Bank
financed.
Government's strtegic planning activities is shown in Annex  . Implementation of
technical assistance and training would be in accordance with a time-based Action Plan,
which was agreed at negotiations.



- 23 -
3.14       Review of Bid Documents and Contracts. All civil works packages (about
eight contracts, 78 percent of the works) in excess of $10 million and all equipment and
materials contracts (about five contracts, 56 percent of the equipment and materials) of
$1 million or more, and all consulting services contracts would be subject to the Bank's
prior review. Other contracts would be subject to selective postaward review.
3.15       Prequalification. The Standard Prequalification Document for the People's
Republic of China, issued by the Ministry of Finance and approved by the World Bank
Group, would be used for preparing the invitation document. The Shanghai Environment
Project Office, SITC and ITC hold copies of this document (together with standard bidding
documents for ICB and LCB works and goods invitations).
F. DI9uRsEmEr
3.16        The proposed loan of $160 million would be disbursed over a period of six
years, as follows:
1.   Civil Works (except PC4   $ 68.0 million    28 percent of expenditures
& PC5)
2.   Goods (except PC5)      $ 66.6 million      100 percent of foreign
expenditures, 100 percent of
local expenditures (ex-factory
cost), and 75 percent of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
3.  Implementation Support,   $ 17.4 million     100 percent of expenditures
Institutional Development,
Studies and Training
4.   Unallocated             $ 8.0 million
Total                S160.0 million
3.17       To expedite disbursements, a Special Account with an authorized allocation
of $9.0 million, representing about four months' average disbursements, would be
established. It would be replenished monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn
down to 50 percent of its initial value, whichever occurs first. Disbursements for training
and contracts for civil works and goods valued at less than $300,000 would be made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE), to be certified by SM. Documents
supporting the SOEs would be retained by SM and made available for inspection during
the course of Bank supervision missions. All other disbursements would be made against
fully documented expenditures. A Schedule of Disbursements is given in Annex 7.
3.18        Because of the relatively limited amount of IBRD funding that is proposed
to be provided, SMG has decided to finance the following items included in the project,
from its own sources: civil works of PC4-Pollution Sources and Water Quality



- 24 -
Monitoring; and civil works and goods of PC5-Municipal Solid Waste and Nightsoil
Management. In view of the early start expected to be made by SM on some works,
retroactive financing of up to $15.0 million would be provided for expenditures incurred
from April 15, 1993, covering initial civil works, goods and services contracts.
Construction work on preliminary works not financed by the Bank commenced in early
1993. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999, and, therefore, the Loan
Closing Date would be June 30, 2000.
G. LAI AcQusoN AD RESEriMENT
3.19       Three project components would require the acquisition of land and
resettlement of current users. These are the pump station and conveyor for the Da Qiao
intake, the Wujing/Minhang Trunk Wastewater System, and the sewerage system and
treatment plant in Songjiang County Town.
3.20       Much of the land for the Da Qiao conveyor was acquired in 1985 and the
affected people resettled at that time. The remaining land needing to be permanently
acquired for this component consists of one parcel of 4.7 hectares at the intake site and an
additional 1.5 hectares for an access road and 3 branch conveyors. The land to be
acquired contains the dwellings of 87 families with some 350 members. Crops are planted
on the land needing to be acquired. In addition, 295 hectares of farmland would
emporarily be needed during construction and later retuned to farmers. All such uses
would be compensated and all affected families would be resettled within the boundaries
of their current village. Farmers losing land would be reemployed by SMWC or local
commercial or industrial enterprises. SMWC would be responsible for funding land
acquisition and resettlement, and affected counties would implement that resettlement.
SMWC has prepared a resettlement plan acceptable to the Bank that gives details on the
affected people, their losses, and how those losses would be compensated to ensure no
adverse impact on their standard of living.
3.21       The construction of the Wujing/Minhang Trunk Wastewater System would
require only limited land acquisition and no resettlement, as most of the work would be
undertaken underground as a tunnel, using current microtunneling techniques mainly under
public roadways. The Songjiang Wastewater Treatment Plant extension would require the
acquisition of approximately 10.2 hectares of land. No residences and only one farm
building are located on the main 10-hectare parcel of farmland, so losses there would be
entirely of crop output. A second parcel contains a vehicle workshop, which would be
relocated. Songjiang County expects to absorb 20 percent (approximately 25 people) of
the displaced farmers in their operations, while the remaining 80 percent (or 112 people)
would be reemployed through the Songjiang County Labor Bureau. Songjiang county has
developed a resettlement plan acceptable to the Bank.
3.22       Prior to negotiations, SMG forwarded to the Bank, an updated and
acceptable land acquisition and resettlement plan. The Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Plan is presented in Annex 8. Its implementation would be monitored by SEPO. During
negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom SM that it would cause its concerned agencis



- 25 -
to (a) carry out resettlement of persons affected by the project in a manner and according
to a schedul which is satisfactory to the World Bank; and (b) report on the progress of
carrying out the resettlement plan using monitoring indicators acceptable to the Bank.
H. ENVIRONNMTAL IeACT ASSESSMENT
3.23        The proposed project is a Category B project under the Operational Directive
classification and would have an overall positive impact. Relocation of the water supply
intake would ensure that the quality of water abstacted is improved by at least one class
(Chinese water quality standard, Annex 2), from Class IV to Class m. Specific pollution
control components of the project would remove substantial pollution loads and thus
similarly improve water quality in the receiving watercourses. Chinese regulations require
the preparation of an environmental assessment (EA) at the time of project design. SMG
brought to negotiations a copy of the comprehensive Environmental Assessment Report,
approved by SM and NEPA. The EA report was reviewed by the World Bank and found
to be satisfactory (Ann)ex 9. Although the balance of the project in environmental terms
is decidedly positive, some negative impacts have been identified during the EA process
and mitigation measures developed. In particular, appropriate arrangements have been
made for the beneficial use, wherever possible, of construction spoil, and for the use in
agriculture of sludge from wastewater treatment. Similarly, the siting of wastewater
treatment plants is such that there is the minimum impact upon living conditions and that
the discharges are to watercourses where the residual pollution load may be assimilated
without significant detriment to local water quality.
L PROJcCr MONrORING, REPoRING AM SupEvISIoN
3.24        The proposed project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 10. The
proposed monitoring indicators for environmental improvement are included in AnneLli.
Financial monitoring indicators for SMWC and SWWrP are appended to the financial
projections for those entities, in Annexes 14 and 15, respectively. The format and content
of project progress reports and project impact monitoring indicators and methodology were
discussed and confirmed during negotiations.  Monitoring of the PC6-Institutional
Strengthening and Training Component would be in accordance with the Action Plan
agreed at negotiations.
3.25        Project impact would be monitored with respect to the objectives, for which
the key indicators are summaized below:
(a)   enhance drinking water quality:
Indicatr.    % Achievement of Class m standard;
(b)   identify and control sources of pollution:
iator.    % controls on main polluters, and % system connections;
(c) expand water quality monitoring:
Indicatr.    % response time and deviation from quality standards;



- 26 -
(d)  improve municipal solid waste and nightsoil management:
Indicator.    % landfill new usage, and % nightsoil service reduction;
(e)   improve municipal, environmental and utility management and finances:
Indicato.   Financial performance criteria;
(f)   support training, feasibility studies, and future investment project
preparation:
Indicat .    % Achievement of Action Plan.
3.26        Reports on project progress would be sent to the World Bank quarterly,
commencing July 1, 1994. The last progress report of each year would include the latest
project cost estimate and financing plan for the following year, including SM's approved
budget for local counterpart funds. A project completion report, reviewing the planned
objectives and the achievements of the project, including costs and benefits derived, and
performance and contribution of all parties associated with project execution, would be
prepared by SM and submitted to IBRD within six months of the Closing Date.
3.27        To facilitate implementation, a Project Launch Workshop would be held in
early 1994. Project supervision requirements would be based on our experience with
supervision of the ongoing Shanghai Sewerage Project. Bank supervision would require
about 160 staff-weeks over the life of the project, of which about 76 staff-weeks would be
at headquarters for the review of progress and audit reports, procurement actions and
correspondence, and 84 staff-weeks would be in the field. More extensive supervision
would be required during the first three years of the project during which time the
technical assistance would be made operational and many procurement contracts would be
tendered, evaluated and awarded. Supervision would be provided by environmental
engmeering and financial staff, as well as other specialists as needed.






- 27 -
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. PRoJEC MANAGEMENT
4.1         The Shanghai Major Construction Project Leading Group oversees the
preparation and execution of all major urban projects on behalf of SMG. It is headed by
a vice-mayor and supported by the Vice Secretary-General of SMG and the Director of the
Shanghai Construction Commission (SCC) as group deputy leaders, and supported by the
major government agencies concerned with urban services and environmental management.
An organizational chart of the Shanghai Municipal Government is presented in Annex 12.
The Group designated the Shanghai Municipal Bureau of Environmental Protection as the
agency responsible for managing the proposed project. This Bureau organized and staffed
the Shanghai Environment Project Office (SEPO) to prepare and execute the project,
including the supervision and monitoring of contracts, maintenance of project records, and
the submission of progress reports to the Bank (paras. 2.33 and 3.26). SEPO has created
and staffed subproject offices in each of the following implementing agencies:
(a) Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company (SMWC); (b) Songjiang County (for the
construction of a wastewater treatment plant); (c) Shanghai Environmental Monitoring
Center (SEMC); (d) Shanghai Environmental Sanitation Administration Bureau (SESAB);
(e) Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company-SSPCC (for the construction of
wastewater conveyance systems in Wujing and Minhang districts); and (f) Shanghai
Academy of Environmental Sciences (SAES).
4.2         SEPO has interacted well with the DRA Consultants (para 2.33), resulting
in the project being prepared satisfactorily to date. Assurances were obtained during
negotianonsfrom SM ta SEPO and its subproject offices would be maintained throughout
implementation with stqffing and fitons satifactory to the Bank.
4.3         Day-to-day construction supervision would be provided by local consulting
engineers, assisted by international consultants. SMWC has engaged a consulting firm for
supervising the works to be constructed under PC1-Drinking Water Quality Protection
component (para. 3.13). The consultants' duties would include verification of compliance
with specifications for works and goods, supervision of construction, quality assurance of
construction materials and major items of plant and equipment, testing and commissioning
of completed works and advice on taining of staff to operate the completed facilities.



- 28 -
B. IMPLEMENrATON RESPONSIDIrEES
4.4        Implementation of the individual components would be carried out by the
following agencies:
(a)   PCI-Drinking Water Quality Protection-Shanghai Municipal Waterworks
Company (SMWC);
(b)   PC2-Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution Control-Shanghai Sewerage
Project Construction Company (SSPCC) on behalf of and as agent for the
Shanghai Sewerage Company (SSC);
(c)   PC3-SongJiang Wastewater Pollution Control-Songjiang  Wastewater
Treatment Plant (SWWTP);
(d)   PC4-Pollution  Sources  and  Water  Quality  Monitoring-Shanghai
Environmental Monitoring Center (SEMC);
(e)   PC5-Municipal Solid Waste  and  Nightsoil Management-Shanghai
Environmental Sanitation Administration Bureau (SESAB); and
(f)   PC6-Institutional Strengthening through Technical Assistance and Training-
Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG).
SMG has confirmed that the implementing agencies would be vested with ownership of all
assets created through the project, except for SSPCC, which would implement on behalf
of the Shanghai Sewerage Company (SSC).
4.5         Shangai Municipal Waterworks Company (SMWC).  SMWC was
established in 1952 as a state-owned enterprise company, taking over the assets and
liabilities of a foreign-owned company that was created in 1881 to seve about 170,000
people. Upon the creation of the People's Republic of China in 1949, the service area
covered about 137 k1I2, serving a population of around 4.4 million, with a peak water
production of about 0.6 million m3/day. In 1991, the service area covered 375 kIn2, and
the peak daily production was 4.7 million m3, serving about 8 million people. Annual
water sales in 1991 were 1,241 million m3.
4.6         SMWC reports to the Shanghai Public Utilities Bureau, which has
responsibility, overall, for water supply planning and the issuance of licenses for water
extraction by major water users. SMWC supplies water mainly to the five districts that
make up the inner core of the Shanghai Municipal area and has the necessary permits to
abstract water from the Huangpu River. Other counties within SMG typicaly have their
own water supply arrangements, sometimes purchasing water in bulk from SMWC.
4.7         The organizational structure of SMWC comprises a management team of five
officers-a General Manager, throe Vice-Managers and a Chief Engineer. Up to 49 units,



- 29 -
including departments and offices, water treatment plants and a training center, report to
SMWC management. A number of other companies and departments perform functions
for SMWC. The Shanghai Water Pipeline Construction Company, which is one of a group
of companies also reporting to the Shanghai Public Utilities Bureau, is administered by
SMWC, but not as a subsidiary. It installs new pipes on behalf of SMWC and maintains
water pipes in Puxi. The Shanghai Water Supply Equipment and Engineering Company,
which is a subsidiary of SMWC, maintains the water supply network of Pudong and also
makes water meters and water purification equipment for domestic and industrial use.
There is also a separate water meter factory, which is a department of SMWC.
4.8         Other Water Supply Companies. The following three companies in the
field of water supply were established in 1992: (a) Shanghai Raw Water Company, which
has taken over the following assets from SMWC: (i) Linjiang intake works, pumps and
pipeline, and (ii) Yuepu Water Treatment Plant; (b) Linqiao Water Company, which would
build a water treatment works, partly financed by the Government of Italy, to service a
part of the Pudong area; and (c) Changjiang Reservoir Company, which presently supplies
water to SMWC's Huepu Treatment Plant, and would also supply the new works at
linqiao when a conveyance has been constructed. The rationale for the establishment of
these companies was to facilitate access to the stock market in order to raise funds for the
constuction of the facilities. SMG considers that as the above companies lack construction
or construction-management expertise, they should not be assigned any implementation
responsibilities under the project.
4.9         Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company (SSPCC). SSPCC
was established in 1986 to implement the IBRD/IDA-financed Shanghai Sewerage Project
(Loan 2794-CHA/Credit 1779-CHA) on behalf of SSC (established in 1987).
Organizationally, it comes under, and reports to, the Shanghai Major Construction Project
Leading Group (para. 4.1). SSPCC's Manager, a senior engineer appointed by the Bureau
of Municipal Engineering Administration of Shanghai, is a member of the Leading Group.
Two deputy project managers, one technical, the other nontechnical, who are responsible
for three and four departments, respectively, report to the Manager. An intemal audit
department reports directly to the Manager. Total staff strength is about 300. Physical
implementation of the $373 million Shanghai Sewerage Project by SSPCC has been
satisfactory.
4.10        Songjiang Wastewater Treatment Plant (SWWTP). SWWTP, a state-
owned enterprise established in 1993, presently disposes of about 50 percent, or about
27,000 tons, of the maximum daily average of the domestic and industrial waste of
Songjiang Town. Under the project, SWWTP would be responsible for the construction,
commissioning and operation of an extension of its existing sewerage system and
wastewater treatment works in Songjiang Town.
4.11        Shanghai EnvironmentalMonitoring Center (SEMC). SEMC, which was
established in 1981, is part of a national organization responsible for the determination of
environmental standards and the enforcement of environmental regulations. It reports to
the Shanghai Municipal Bureau of Environmental Protection. SEMC is responsible for



- 30 -
environmental monitoring of Shanghai City. Its major functions are: (a) planning
environmental monitoring; (b) collecting and analyzing environmental monitoring data and
preparing environment quality reports; (c) providing technical and functional guidance to
district and county monitoring stations; (d) carrying out studies for environment quality
assessment and monitoring technology; (e) organizing environmental investigations and
offering technical arbitration in pollution conflicts; and (f) defining and revising
environmental standards and regulations for Shanghai.
4.12        SMEC is headed by a director and has a staff of about 160, including some
120 technical staff. Its organizational structure includes 13 departments, of which nine are
technical, and the balance, administrative and material management. It has experience in
contracting for both civil works and equipment purchases.
4.13        Shanghai Environmental Sanitation Administration Bureau (SESAB).
SESAB is a line organization within SMG, reporting to SCC. It also has direct links to
the Shanghai Planning Commission, which reviews and approves its annual budget.
4.14       The reponsibility for collection and delivery to transfer stations of solid
waste and nightsoil was decetralizd to the 14 Districts and 6 County govenments in
1985, and SESAB is therefore now directly responsible only for bulk transportation of
wastes and ultimate disposal at landfill sites. However, it continues to provide technical
and functional guidance to the district and county sanitation bureaus.
4.15        SESAB's organizational structure comprises a centrl, or municipal bureau
with 155 staff, supported by a number of "mid-grade' and 'subordinate' units with a total
of approximately 12,550 staff. These units, of which the main ones are the Water
Transport Company, the Truck Transport Company, and Water Environmental Sanitation
Administration, are independent for accounting purposes. SESAB and its mid-grade and
subordinate units have had excperince in planning and implementing their past investment
programs. The organization, therefore, is considered capable of planning and
implementing the sanitation investments proposed to be included in the project.
C. STATUS OF ENGNERING
4.16        Project preparation and design work has been undertaken jointly by
international and local consultants and design bureaus to a high standard, and is well
advanced. ODA of the British Government provided financial support to SMG in this
connection. Work on the final design and bidding documents preparation for the Drinking
Water Quality Protection component are scheduled to be completed by the end of 1993.
For the remaining components of the project, this work is scheduled to be completed by
mid-1994. SMG brought to negotiations (a) the preliminary engineering design of the
Wujing/Mhang Northern Trunk Wastewater System in connection with PC2; and (b) a
study, satisfactory to the Bank, of the assimilative capacity of the receiving waters of the
proposed Bailonggang wastewater outfall for this system (para. 7, Annex 3).



- 31 -
5. FINANCE
A. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
5.1         Since 1978, economic reforms have evolved gradually toward an
increasingly decentralized financial system in China. Most of the industrial production and
prces have become free of govenment control, and enterprises have to purchase most of
their inputs at market prces. Enterprse reform has become a high priority of the
Govenment. In this connection, the guiding principles of the recently promulgated
'regulations on transforming the management mechanisms of state-owned industrial
enterprises' are to separate government administration from enterprise management,
increase the autonomy and accountability of state-owned enteprises, and increase
competition and market-orientation. Ihe reform efforts to improve economic policies and
enterprise efficiencies are essential for sustaining both economic development and
environmental protection in the longer run.
5.2        In order for the enterprises to assume their increased responsibilities
efficiently and effectively, strengthening of their financial management is essential.
Toward this end, the proposed project would support the applications of modern
management techniques and human resource development for SMWC, SWWTP and
SESAB. Concurrently, ODA of the United Kingdom is supporting the financial
strengthening of the Shanghai Finance Bureau (para. 2.33).
B. ACcOuNTING
5.3         Different accounting systems are used by enterprises (autonomous units),
construction units (which execute investment projects) and local government departments,
in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Ministry of Finance.
5.4         Enterprise Accounting. All the state-owned enteprises in China have
followed a unified enterprise accounting system on an accrual basis. The accounting
framework was developed in the context of a highly centralized planned economy. With
a view to complementing the ongoing efforts to deepen reforms in the financial sector and
enterprise management, the accounting system in China needed modemization to permit
satisfactory financial management in an increasingly decentalized and market-oriented
environment. As a first step, the general principles of enterprise (the term to include
public utilities such as water and sewerage companies) accounting were revised by the
Ministry of Finance, and introduced from July 1, 1993. As part of the reforms,
enterprises are also required to produce five reports for submission to Government:
balance sheet, income statement, source and application of funds, profit distribution, and
details of main business. The first two reports are required to be produced monthly, the



- 32 -
remainder on an annual basis. SMWC and SWWTP have adopted the new accounting and
reporting formats.
5.5         Government Accounting. The regular government department accounts
reflect expenditures incurred against budget allocations by SM. Accounting is handled in
a decentralized manner through transfers to subunits from which actual expenditures are
made and recorded on a cash basis. Accounts are kept at all levels, and each subunit
reflects in its accounts the budget allocation it receives from the unit above.
5.6         Project Accounts. Separate project accounts would be maintained by
SSPCC, SEMC and SESAB when implementing their respective project components.
These accounts would be set up in accordance with the Government State Construction
Unit Accounting System. The system is comprehensive, and is adequate for recording
works under construction and financial resources expended, in order to determine fixed
asset values and liabilities inCurred upon completion of the projects. Project-related
expenditures incurred by SMWC and SWWTP would be reflected within their respective
entexprise accounting systems.
C. AUDm
5.7         As with other World Bank Group-financed projects in China, the Foreign
Investment Audit Bureau of the State Audit Administration (SAA), established in 1983,
would have overall responsibility for auditing accounts conceming the project. The actual
auditing work would be conducted by the Shanghai Municipal Audit Bureau under SAA's
supervision (confirmed during negotiations). This arrangement is satisfactory. During
negoniaions, assurances were obtained that thefollowing annual audits would be submitted
to the Bank within sa months after the end of the financial year: (a) audit of the project
accounts maintained by SEMC, SESAB and SSPCC; (b) audit of the Special Account; (c)
audit of SOEs, and (d) audits of the financial statements of SMWC, SSC and SWWIP.
D. MucIaaL FINANCE
5.8         Shanghai Municipality has two types of finance, budgetary and
extrabudgetary. The revenues and expenditures recorded on municipal budgets are
officially sanctioned by the Center. The budgetary revenue is provided through taxes
levied on businesses operating within the Shanghai Municipal area. While the base and
rate of these taxes are set by the Central Government, SM has substantial discretion to give
tax exemptions, and is fully responsible for the administration of the taxes. Most
extrabudgetary revenues and expenditures consist of special fees to enterprises and are used
for capital expenditures. Budgetary and extrabudgetary accounts are not consolidated; the
accounts of Shanghai's public service corporations are Iept on an enterprise basis and,
therefore, not consolidated into the municipal accounts. Information on the extrabudgetary
revenues and expenditures are closely guarded, and were not, therefore, provided to the
Bank. They are said, however, to be at least as large as the budgetary data.



- 33 -
5.9         Table 5.1 provides a summary of five years (1988-92) of actual budgetary
revenues and expenditures of SM, showing, also, the proportion of urban capital and
environmental protection expenditures. Total revenues per capita amounted to Y 1,470 in
1991, and represented about 22 percent of Shanghai's GDP.  Annex 13 provides
projections of SM's municipal finances up to the year 2000, together with some
assumptions underlying the data. Generally, the projections have been based on Shanghai's
past performance. However, given the additional accelerated growth projected for
Shanghai, and possible further changes that might arise out of the Shanghai Reform Action
Plan (para. 2.6), the projections should be treated guardedly.
Table S.1: SummARY OF PAsr MuNcI'.L FINANCES
(Y billion, unless noted)
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Total Revenue Collected                  14.7   15.3   15.8   19.2   20.3
Less:  Transfers to Center               10.5   10.5   10.9   11.1   10.9
Aggregate Local Revenue                   4.2    4.8    4.9    8.1    9.4
Total Expenditures                        6.5    7.3    7.6   10.1   11.2
Current Expenditures                    3.6    4.3    4.6    7.1    8.2
Capital Expenditure.                    2.9    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
of which Capital/Urban                1.0    2.0    2.1    2.0    2.5
an Z Total Expenditures                15.0   27.0   28.0   20.0   22.0
of which Environmental Protection    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
as Z Total Expenditure.                 2.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Nat Income(Loas)                         (2.3)  (2.5)  (2.7)  (2.0)  (1.8)
Transfers from Center                     2.3    2.5    2.7    2.0    1.8
5.10        Fnancial Resources for Environmental Protection. SMG's capital budget
for environmental protection programs in 1992 amounted to about Y 11,873 million
(equivalent to about $2,083 million), or about $160 per urban household, high for the
income level. These funds form a part of the regulr municipal budget and are allocated
by SFB and SCC. They are elastic in that they are based on sales and income of the
enterprises under SMG jurisdiction. While they stagnated during the austerity period in
the late 1980s, they are liklly to increase steadily along with the ongoing economic
recovery, given the current tax rates and revenue-sharing arrngements with the Central
Government. The extrabudgetary revenues (para. 5.8) generally parallel the real rate of
economic growth and the change in unit rates determined by SMG, subject to national
guidelines.   Revenue growth would translate directly into increased investment
expenditures, which accounted for the major part of the infrastructure budget in the past.
5.11        Given the growth prospects of resources, especially for capital accounts,
additional expenditures attributable to the project represent a relatively small portion of



- 34 -
SMG's infrastructure budget, as follows: about 17 percent in the first year; 25 percent in
the second year, declining to 11 percent, 3 percent and less than 1 percent in the third,
fourth and fifth years, respectively. Debt service attributable to the project would be
equivalent to less than 1 percent of the regular capital budget, rising to about 1.6 percent
in the first year of repayment of principal, and declining thereafter. However, debt service
on about 87 percent of project investments would be met from user charges, and would
not, therefore, be a drain on the municipal budget. Additionally, the operation and
maintenance expenses on the same 87 percent of project investments would be met from
user charges. The operation and maintenance requirements on the remaining project
investments, which would need to be met by SMG, would represent an insignificant
percentage of budgetary revenues. These investments would, in addition, benefit from
both savings due to enhanced system performance, and additional costs caused by the
measures taken to reduce pollution and increase service reliability. Counterpart funds for
the Drinking Water Quality Protection (about 65 percent of project cost), would be raised
by the Shanghai Raw Water Company through share issue (para. 4.8). There is, therefore,
expected to be no drain on SMG's municipal budget to implement this component.
E. WATn SUPPY
5.12        Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company. Financial statements of
SMWC, showing the past three years' audited operations (1990-92) and projections up to
the year 2000, with detailed assumptions, are given in Tables 1, 2 and 3 of Annex 14, and
summarized in Table 5.2. SMWC made small surpluses in 1990 and 1991, of Y 9 million
and Y 15 million respectively, after receiving a revenue subsidy from SMG of Y 41.93
milion in 1990. In 1991, a profits tax charge, which, at the standard rate of 55 percent,
would have been Y 9.78 million, was replaced with a charge of Y 1.0 million. In October
1992, SWMC transferred assets valued at Y 398 million to the Shanghai Raw Water
Company (para. 4.8), and made a payment to that company of Y 38 million for water
purchased during the last quarter of 1992. Had the Raw Water Company not been created,
SMWC would have made a profit in 1992. SMG has confirmed that the dividends
otherwise payable to it by the Shanghai Raw Water Company on the approximately
73 percent of the nominal share capital of the company held by it would accrue to SMWC.
This is recorded as nonoperating income in SMWC's projectod Income Statement
(An&ex 14, Table 1).
5.13         In line with general economic and enterprise reforms, SMG has indicated
that no further operating or capital subsidies would be made to SMWC, and in addition,
has set financial objectives and approved tariffs for its water supply and sewerage
companies. These are to earn rates of return on net current fixed assets in operation of
between 8 and 15 percent. he projections in Annex 14 reflect the policy regarding
subsidies; however, they are more modest in the rates of return assumptions compared with
SMG's stated financial objectives. The projections also provide for SMWC incurring part
of the costs of pumping from Taihu Lake (pan. 2.16). The pumping capacity of the
proposed Taihu Pumping Station would be a minimum of 300 m3/sec and up to this
quantity would be discharged to the Taipu/Huangpu River system when required due to
water quality considerations at the Da Qiao Intake and requested by SMG. The conclusion



- 35 -
Table 5.2: SUMMARY OF KEY FINANCIAL AND MONTORING INDICATORS FOR SMWC
(Y million, unless noted)
Actual                  Est.
1990       1991       1992        1993
Water Sold Mms                      1,225      1,241      1,290       1,344
Operating Revenue                     178        277        357         577
Operating Expense                     189        258        341         505
Net Income                              9         15         16          66
Average Tariff (Y/m')                0.14       0.22       0.28        0.43
Operating Ratio                     1.17        0.99       1.00        0.99
Capital Expenditures                  100        180       -206         381
Debt Service Coverage Ratio             -          -          -        9 23
Contribution to Investment
(3-year average) - S              35.9       168.1          -       36.3
Return on Revalued Assets
- S                              -2.54       -0.86      -1.18       -5.02
of the agreement (para. 2.16) to operate and finance the operational costs of the proposed
Taihu Pumping Station in an acceptable manner, is a condition of effectiveness.
5.14        Following two formal tariff increases in 1990 and 1992, SMWC's revenues
incrased from Y 133 million in 1989 to Y 357 million in 1992, a 2.7-fold increase over
the period. Operating expenses increased by 88 percent over the same period, with
personnel expenses increasing by 92 percent and power costs by 89 percent. Water tariffs,
as measured by the average price per e3, have risen from Y 0.11 in 1989, to Y 0.14 in
1990, to Y 0.28 in 1992, and to Y 0.43 in 1993 (the latest increase being as a result of a
condition of appraisal). The current and previous tariffs are as follows:
Type of Consumer                        1990           1992            1993
------------- (Im')-------------
Domestic, bulk supplies end
smaller hotels                       0.18            0.28           0.40
Standposts                             0.13            0.28            0.30
Industry and other                      0.26           0.36            0.51
Semitreated industrial water           0.18            0.28           0.40
Foreign ships                          0.50            0.60           0.80
Other ships                                        No charge
5.15        SMWC would need to be permitted to increase its tariffs regularly in order
to meet the capital and opeating costs of the project-financed and complementary fcilities.
As water tariffs, properly applied, can discourage high usage, thereby leading to possible



- 36 -
reduced consumption and to the deferment of future capital investments, the development
of possibly more responsive tariff structures would be included in technical assistance to
SMWC.
5.16        Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SM would cause SMWC
to (a) generate revenues from its water supply operations in its fiscal year 1994, sufficient
to cover its operatng and maintenance costs including depreciation, (b) complete, by
June 30, 1995, a pro-forma revaluation of its assets, valued as at December 31, 1994, in
accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank and, thereafter, make annual adjustments
in accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank; (c) earn, forfiscal year 1995 and each
fiscal year thereafter, an annual return of not less than the following percentage of the
average current net value of its fixed assets in operation: 2 percent in 1995, 3 percent in
1996, 4 percent in 1997, 5 percent in 1998, 6 percent in 1999, and 7 percent in 2000 and
each year thercafter; (d) commencing not later than fiscal year 1995, collect and retain the
surcharge made when a large water user exceeds the water quota allotted to it; and (e)
prepare, before September 30 in each of itsfiscal years, forecasts satisfactory to the Bank,
(O) to review whether it would meet the requirements set forth above in such year and the
following fiscal year, and rii) to furnish the results of such review to the Bank. If any such
revew would show that SMWC would not meet the requirements set out above, SMWC
would take all necessary measures, including adjustments to structure or lewls of its tariffs
and charges, in order to meet the requirements.
5.17        An increase of SMWC's tariffs to levels sufficient to permit SMWC to meet
the covenanted requirement stated in (a) above is a condition of effectiveness.
5.18        Accounting and Auditing. SMWC maintains its accounts on an accruals
basis. All accounting records are computerized; however, the final accounts are compiled
manually as the accounting program does not produce them in the required form. SMWC
presently produces 19 reports, for use intemally and by SMG. From July 1, 1993, it
would produce five standardized reports for SMG (see para. 5.4); however, it would be
free to produce, and would probably continue with, most of its present reports for intemal
use. SMWC's accounting and financial reporting is sound, and there is a good level of
accounting awareness among the senior staff of the finance department.
5.19        The Shanghai Municipal Audit Bureau carries out annual audits of the
accounts and financial statements of SMWC. It reported SMWC as having one of the
better accounting system in China. SMWC has provided the Bank with three years
(1990-92) audited financial statements. Under the project, it would be required to provide
copies of audits of its financial statements to the Bank (para. 5.7).
5.20        Billing and Collections.  All supplies, even those to standposts, are
metered. Only about 10 percent of water produced is unaccounted for, according to
SMWC's records. There is an ongoing program of meter inspection and repair, coupled
with a policy of exchange and replacement of meters after 5 and 10 years, respectively.
The billing operation is soundly based, with bills delivered by hand to the customer on the
day after the meter is read. Bills are prepared on a series of personal computers using a
program written in-house, with readings being take directly from the meter reading
records, thus reducing the risk of error. Customers can pay their bills either at the offices



- 37 -
of SMWC, or at some 300 designated banks around the city. Accounts not paid within
nine days of delivery of the bills to the customer can be settled only at the offices of
SMWC, where a surcharge of 5 percent per day (with a minimum of Y 0.20 per day) is
added. Virtually all bills are paid within nine days of issuance, and 100 percent collection
is attained within two months. For the purposes of the projections, therefore, a collection
rate of 100 percent is assumed.
F. SEwERAGE SERVICES
5.21        Sonjiang Wastewater Treatment Plant. Financial statements of SWWTP
showing the past three years' audited operations (1990-92) and projections up to the year
2000, with detailed assumptions, are provided in Tables 1, 2, and 3 of Annex 15, and
summarized in Table 5.3. SWWTP's accounts were prepared on a cash basis, with no
provision being made for depreciation, doubtful receivables, etc. The projections,
therefore, were constructed from SWWTP's Fund Flow Activity financial statement and
its overstandard discharge tariff collection schedule, as there was no readily available
income statements and balance sheets.
Table 5.3: SummARY OF KEY FINANCLAL AND MONITORING INDICAToRs FOR SWWTP
(Y million, unless noted)
Actual                 Eat.
1990       1991       1992        1993
Wastewater VolUme m3                  6.2        8.3        9.4         9.8
Wastewater Treated m'                 6.2        8.3        9.4         9.8
Sewer Connection. ('000)               89        104        125         146
Sewerage Coverage (Z)                 36          34         33          32
Operating Revenue                     2.0        2.5        2.7         4.2
Operating Expense LS                  2.4        3.1        3.4         3.2
Net Income                              0       -0.2       -0.2         1.0
Average Tariff (Y/Im')               0.32       0.30       0.29        0.43
Operating Ratio                      1.48       1.49       1.47        0.91
Capital Expenditures                    0          0        0.5         1.4
Covenant Revenue Requirement          2.9        3.7        3.9         3.8
Sewer Income minus Covenant             -          -          -         0.3
LB Excluding deprciaion.
5.22        SWWTP operations have been financed from three sources: (a) an annual
subsidy of Y 1.0 million from SFB; (b) a standard wastewater discharge tariff (Y 0.12 per
m3 from 1988 to March 1993, and Y 0.40 per m3 thereafter); and (c) 30 percent of an
overstandard discharge tariff of Y 0.40 per COD m3 (the remaining 70 percent being
remitted to the Songjiang County Construction Bureau for municipal construction). Tariffs
are collected only from industrial companies; no tariffs are colected from domestic users.
Total revenue grew from Y 2.0 million in 1990 to Y 2.7 million in 1992, or averaging
about 16 percent per year, with about 50 percent coming from a single source-the



- 38 -
Songjiang Paper Mill. This mill, however, closed in June 1993. In line with general
economic and enterprise reforms, and as in the case of SMWC (para. 5.13), no further
operating subsidies would be paid to SWWRP. Operating costs increased at about
19 percent per year over the period 1990-92.
5.23       The financial projections assume that SWWTP would: (a) retain all of the
proceeds of tariffs and charges relating to the collection and treatment of wastewater in
Song.iang Town; (b) receive capital equity contributions from SCC, Songjiang County and
the Shanghai EPB to cover all the local project investment costs and part of the foreign
exchange costs (with the balance of the foreign costs being covered by the proceeds of the
loan); and (c) achieve financial objectives similar to those being achieved by SSC under
the World Bank Group-financed Sewerage Project (Loan 2794-CIA/Credit 1779-CHA).
5.24       Assurances were obtained during negotiations that commencing infiscal year
1995, SWW1P would be permutted to bill, collect and retain all tariffs and charges relating
to the collection, eatment and disposal of wastewater in Songfiang Town. Commencing
with SWWTP's fiscal year 1996, SWWrP would produce rewenues sfficient to r() cover its
total operating costs and the amount by which its debt service requirements exceed
depredation and rii) have a debt service coverage of at kast 1.3. SWWTP wouldprepare
bWfore September 30, in each fiscal year, forecasts satisfactory to the Bank, reviewing
whether it would meet the requirements set forth above in such year and the following
fiscal year, and furnish the results of such review to the Ban. If any such review would
show thot SWWTP would not meet the reqirements set out above, SWWTP would take all
necessary measures, including adjustments to the structure of its tariffs and charges, in
order to meet the requirements.
5.25        Understandings were obtained during negotiations that SM would (a) cause
Songjiang County Government to facilitate the connections of premises to SWWTP's sewer
system; and (b) faclitate the connections to the northern" trunk sewer in Wujing and
Minhang neighborhoods.
5.26        Accounting and Audit. Effective July 1, 1993, SWWTP commenced
keeping its accounts, and preparing its financial statements, in the new formats mandated
by the Ministry of Finance in Beijing (para. 5.4). During the project period, SWWTP
would be required to provide copies of audits of its financial statements to the Bank
(pam. 5.7).
5.27        Shanghai Sewerage Company (SSC). The debt service obligations and
operation and maintenance requirements ansing out of the construction and subsequent
operation of the conveyance system pertaining to PC2-Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution
Control component would be the responsibility of SSC.
5.28        The finances of SSC are being monitored under the ongoing World Bank
Group-financed Shanghai Sewerage Project (Loan 2794-CHAICredit 1779-CHA). The
financial obligations of SSC under that project are (a) to produce revenues sufficient to
cover (i) its total opeating costs and (ii) the amount by which its debt service requirements
exceed depreciation; and (b) to have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3. To date, SSC
has been in compliance with the above. Assurances were obtained dunng negotiations that



- 39 -
these same financial obligations arising out of the proportion of the proposed project
relaong to SSC would be met for each fiscal year.
G. SoLD WASrE      NIGHISOL MANAGEMENT
5.29        A financial analysis has been undertaken of the cost effectiveness of the
short-term improvements proposed to be implemented on an incremental basis during the
project implementation period. In addition to enhancing the efficiency and productivity of
equipment and manpower, a 25 percent reduction in labor costs is planned to be
implemented over the five-year implementation period. Projected consolidated revenue and
expenditure statements of SESAB covering (a) its operations and the existing without
project situation; (b) the proposed project investments; and (c) an alternative incineration
project are shown as Tables 1, 2 and 3 of Annex 16, and summarized in Table 5.4. The
long-term financial benefits of the proposed investments are shown, together with
justification for improving on existing landfill methods of disposal rather than adopting an
incineration strategy.
Table S.4: SummARY OF FINANCLAL PwRFORmANCE OF SESAB
Present value
operating coats       Present value average
Discount                    + depreciation      incremental coat (Y/ton)
rate (Z)                    (Y million)         Solid waste     Nightsoil
Existing Situation
10                            3,477              228            71
12                            3,217              227            70
15                            2,879              225            69
ProDosed Proiect (Improved
Landfill Disposal)
10                            3,192              209            65
12                            2,960              209            65
15                            2,657              208            64
Incineration Alternative
10                            3,751              246            77
12                            3,459              244            75
15                            3,080              241            74
5.30        The projections and analysis clearly demonstrate that the proposed project
investments would assist in the disposal of more solid waste and nightsoil at a lower cost
per ton than is the case with the existing situation, and in a more environmentally effective
manner. The long-term environmental benefits, which cannot be meaningfully quantified,
are substantial and are descibed in para. 6.10.






- 40 -
6. ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL
CONSIDERATIONS
A. PROJEcr JUSTrCATION
6.1        Justification of the project is based on the following considerations:
(a)   the project would provide a raw water source for Shanghai that allows the
safe supply of drinking water meeting national health standards;
(b)   associated sewerage investments would protect the quality of the new source
of water supply and, in conjunction with other investments such as Shanghai
Sewerage (Loan 2794-CHA/Credit 1779-CHA), would reverse the overall
deterioration of surface and groundwater quality in Shanghai;
(c)   in addition to protecting water quality, the improved management of
municipal solid waste and nightsoil systems would reduce land and water
pollution and associated health hazards, and enhance the city environment;
and
(d)   SMG is committed to improving the environment, having already established
an organizational framework for environmental management, and is
prepared to address the longer-term environmental improvement
requirements arising out of the ongoing Shanghai Environmental Master
Plan Studies.
B. LASr-COsT SOLumION
6.2         The selection of the water supply and transmission alternative, as well as the
proposed Songjiang wastewater investments, have been subjected to rigorous least-cost
analysis. Final design decisions on the Wujing-Minhang wastewater conveyance system
would undergo similar analysis once design alternatives have been prepared. On the basis
of the analyses conducted and environmental considerations, and further confirmed by
sensitivity tests, the least-cost investments in water quality protection and catchment
pollution control were recommended for implementation. Details are contained in
Annex 17 (paras. 8-10).
C. PRoJEcr BENEFm
6.3         The cost-effective provision of a safe potable water supply for Shanghai is
a prerequisite to the sustained public health and economic growth of the most important



- 41 -
city on the eastern seaboard of China. The project would enhance the government's efforts
to reform the economy, through the implementation of fiscally rational charges for water,
wastewater, nightsoil and solid waste services. The momentum of economic reform would
be supported by the sectoral breadth of the proposed investments, including water quality
protection, catchment protection, wastewater treatment, waste minimization measures, and
solid waste and nightsoil management; these would provide an enabling framework for
development.
D. ECONOMIC BENEFtns
6.4         The primary project benefits-pollution abatement and the guarantee of a
reliable and safe driking water supply for Shanghai residents that meets the World Health
Organization (WHO) and Chinese quality standards-can be identified but not easily
quantified. Significant benefits of the new intake include those of improved health, the
amenity value of safe and more palatable water fIee from unpleasant tastes and odors that
currently prevail, and reduced risk of an accident forcing intake closure. The sewerage
investments further reduce the risk of pollution accidents forcing an intake closure and
reduce the pollution load in the Huangpu and certain of its tributaries. Those latter
benefits would reflect in increased amenity value of the river and contribute to a broader
effort to restore river quality to a level in which fish can return. The municipal solid
waste and nightsoil management improvements would reduce direct dumping of both
pollutants into the river, again improving water quality and amenity value, and lessen
illegal dumpig on land, reducing pollution both of land and groundwater, and increase
amenity values. Additional impacts would be realized in reduced water treatment costs for
the municipality, for industries directly extracting river water or groundwater, and for
citizens now forced to use filters or purchase bottled water.
6.5         All of the above project benefits are, in theory, quantifiable. In practice,
reliable estimates of the various magnitudes would be very costly to obtain. Health
benefits from urban water supply improvement have been shown to be particularly
intractable to analyze short of a full-scale epidemiological research effort, the time and
expense of which were not deemed justified when current supplies have already been
shown to fail internationally accepted norms. The reduced risk has been addressed in
Annex 17 (paras. 20-30), but again, economic magnitudes were not assigned due to the
cost of obtaning satisfactory estimates. Most amenity value estimation techniques perform
badly in highly distorted markets such as those that characterize Shanghai land and water,
and were therefore not applied in this situation.  Under these circumstances, the
appropriate strategy in making project choices is to establish the economic least-cost
approach to attain the desired health and service goals, instead of attempting to calculate
an economic rate of return. The least-cost strategy shaped the choices made in this
project, and is discussed in the following paragraphs and, in more detail, in Anna 17.
Water Supply
6.6         The no-project altemative has been shown to result in unacceptable levels
of pollutants in the drinkig water supply of Shanghai. The broadest possible array of



- 42 -
interventions has been considered for remedying that problem and four alternatives, each
with several variations, were judged the most feasible and subjected to fiull financial and
economic costing (see Annex 17 for details).  The alternatives considered were:
(a) relocation of the intake to Da Qiao; (b) improved water treatment at the current
Linjiang intake; (c) construction of a new intake on the Changiang; and (d) water pollution
abatement sufficient to maintain water quality at acceptable levels at the present intake.
This option would require, inter alia, the completion of two sewerage systems, the Phase II
sewerage system for the Pudong and Puxi areas and the Zhonggang sewerage system for
the Wujing and Minhang Districts.
6.7         Construction, operating and maintenance (O&M) costs of the four
alternatives cited above were estimated using economic prices (the financial estimates for
the alternatives can be found in project files). The results are shown in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1: ECONOMIC COS SummARY FOR PROJECr ALTERNATVE
(Y million)
Annual             Present
operating costs     value of capital
Capital     at full        and oDerating costs
Option                     cost      development       10S     122    15S
Da Qiao Intake             2,198        127.0        2,795   2,604  2,369
Advanced Water Treatment   3,867        457.4         6,701   6,131  5,442
Changjiang Conveyor        9,189        401.6       10,698  10,316  9,201
Improved Pollution
Control                  6,604        814.3       11,586  10,606  9,425
6.8         The Da Qiao alternative is clearly the superior option, such that the Da Qiao
intake option costs so much less than the other options that no reasonable alternative
assumptions about construction or O&M costs would alter the choice. In addition, the
benefit stream would commence earlier (in 1997) with the Da Qiao option than either the
Changjiang conveyor or improved pollution control. Given the magnitude of the
investment and remaining design work, neither of those alternatives could be completed
until after the year 2000. Advanced water treatment could probably go on stream at about
the same time as the Da Qiao intake. The four options have different risk profiles
(analyzed in Annex I) not captured in the economic prices, with the Da Qiao intake
superior to advanced water treatment, but once they come on stream, the Changjiang
conveyor and improved pollution control both dominating Da Qiao. Improved pollution
control remains an element of the project, but with a different focus and investment pattern
than envisaged in the option above.



- 43 -
Pollution Abatement
6.9         Pollution abatement to protect Shanghai's surface water and groundwater
requires a combination of sewerage systems and treatment plants, reduced pollution
discharges from industry, and improved solid and hazardous-waste handling. The project
includes investment in new and expanded sewerage systems and treatment plants in
Songjiang County, a rapidly industrializing area whose surface waters discharge into the
Huangpu just above the new water intake. The least-cost strategy to bring Songjiang
surface water to Class II would involve relocation of some highly polluting industry
(particularly a paper mill), process technology innovations in others, improved end-of-pipe
processing of industrial wastes, and the expansion of one existing sewerage system and
construction of another. The County would implement sewage tariffs sufficient to offset
the full cost of the sewerage system. The unmeasured but substantial benefit of reduced
pollution, argues for a strongly positive economic rate of return on this component.
6.10       The municipal solid waste and mghtsoil management component of the
project includes support to upgrade landfills, close down temporary dumps, establish
additional landfills for both municipal and nonhazardous industrial waste, convert the
particularly dangerous emergency dump at Sanlintang, on the banks of the Huangpu River,
to a containerized transfer station, introduce a fully containerized waste and road
transportation system, and upgrade the manually handled collection points to enclosed
container facilities. The component would address the pollution and public health
problems associated with uncontroled dumping and inadequate treatment of nightsoil
before land application. The bucket latrine and septic tank systems would be gradually
phased out, to be replaced by connections to the sewers. It would also invest in technical
assistance to strengthen the institutional capability in order to enhance the low equipment
and manpower productivity, improve equipment cost effectiveness, and enable SESAB to
establish proper workshop and landfill operation management. The financial benefits that
would accrue are reflected in the projected average unit cost, which would decline from
about Y 164 per ton to Y 102. This assumes that vehicle utilization would be increased
from about 50 percent to about 85 percent, and that the staff would be trimmed by about
25 percent. The associated cost savings are estimated to be about 40 percent, or Y 60 per
ton. An estimated 60 tons/day of solid waste spillage into the rivers from the docks alone
would be stopped, uncontrolled dumping of nightsoil would be reduced by 1,000-2,000
tons/day, and about 3,000 tons/day of haphazard industrial waste dumping would be
controlled. Approximately 2.5 million people would be connected to sewers, with the
result that nightsoil treatment and land application would be greatly reduced. Additional
aesthetic and environmental benefits would come from the improved collection services,
closing of temporary dumps and controlled landfilling.
E. ENVIRONmENrAL IMpAcT
6.11        The project would contribute significantly to improving the environment and
is rated category -B- in terms of the World Bank's Operational Directive on
Environmental Assessment. Accordingly, a detailed annex of the environment has been



- 44 -
prepared (Annex 9), which summarizes the findings of the Chinese EAs on the various
components and reflects the appraisal mission findings.
F. AFFORDABILTY
6.12        The present water tariffs are low for both residential and industrial use. The
average domestic water bill equals about 0.5 percent of average per capita cash income and
consumer surveys show that this amount is regarded as a trivial element of the household
budget. Industrial tariffs are currently not high enough to inhibit excessive use of water
by international production standards. The tariff structure proposed for implementation
under the project would result in the 5 percent of lower quartile population paying about
1.6 percent of average monthly household income on water by the year 2000. Pricing
policy options would be explored under the Water Master Plan.
G. NxojEcr RiSKS
6.13        Project risks include (a) possible reluctance by SMG or Songjiang County
governments to approve the tariffs and service charges needed for financially sound
operations; (b) possible unwillingness by SMG to enforce the pollution control laws for
inancially weak enterprises, resulting in continued increases in pollutant levels in the
Huangpu; (c) delays by SMG in implementing the institutional development and training
components; and (d) a serious toxic effluent spill that would close the new water system
intake for a period. The risks have been the subject of continuous dialogue during project
preparation. An acceptable schedule of water and wastewater tariff increases was
developed during appraisal; and a carefully designed institutional development and training
program would ensure SMG ownership of specific project components. There is also a
minor risk that the assumptions of revenue collection and unaccounted-for water may prove
optimistic; this would necessitate higher tariff adjustments.
6.14        The risk of a toxic spill would be reduced by the sewerage and industrial
pollution abatement components of the project, and subsequently on implementation of the
recommendations of the Hazardous Waste Management Study, now under way
(para. 2.33). Should a toxic spill occur, the decision to relocate the intake through the
project to a point far upstream of the industrial and shipping centers representing the most
probable sources of a spill would have substantially decreased the danger to the drinking
water supply. To provide additional protection, the current intakes would remain available
for standby operation.
6.15        Sustainability.  Proposed revenue and service charge enhancements,
together with the investments to improve the quality of drinking water and reduce the risks
to Shanghai of toxic spills in the water supply would provide a framework for project
sustainability. The operations and maintenance costs to support the investments would be
provided through existing revenue arrangements; these would be fiurther streamlined and
enhanced as part of the project.






- 45 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1         The following assurances were obtained at negotiations:
(a)   SMWC would complete the additional works needed to complement project-
related works, within an agreed time frame, as part of its normal capital
works program [pam. 3.5(a)(ii)];
(b)   The 33 most polluting industries in the Upper Huangpu Catchment would
complete process changes, or construct pre-treatment facilities, in
accordance with an agreed time-bound Action Plan, in order to meet
relevant discharge standards [para. 3.5(b)(i)];
(c)   An agreed time-bound Action Plan would be implemented for connecting
existing septic tank and nightsoil facilities to the city and county sewerage
systems, and thereafter implemented [para. 3.5(c)(i)];
(d)   Loan proceeds would be onlent to implementing agencies on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.9);
(e)   Implementation of technical assistance and training would be in accordance
with an agreed time-bound Action Plan [paras. 3.5(d) and 3.13];
(f)   Implementing agencies would (i) carry out the resettlement of persons
affected by the project in a manner and according to a schedule that is
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) report on the progress in carrying out the
resettlement plan, project progress and project impact using monitoring
methodology and indicators satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.22);
(g)   SEPO  and its subproject offices would be maintained throughout
implementation, and with staff and functions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.2);
(h)   The following annual audits would be submitted to the Bank within six
months after the end of the financial year: (i) audit of the project accounts
maintained by SEMC, SESAB and SSPCC; (ii) audit of the Special
Account; (iii) audit of statements of expenditure; and (iv) audits of the
financial statements of SMWC, SSC and SWWTP (pam. 5.7);
(1)   SMWC would (i) generate revenues from its water supply operations in its
fiscal year 1994, equivalent to not less than its total opeaing and



- 46 -
maintenance costs including depreciation [(para. 5.16(a)] and (ii) earn, for
fiscal year 1995 and each fiscal year thereafter, an annual return of not less
han the following percentage of the average current net value of its fixed
assets in operation: 2 percent for fiscal year 1995, 3 percent for fiscal year
1996, 4 percent in fiscal year 1997, 5 percent for fiscal year 1998,
6 percent for fiscal year 1999 and 7 percent for fiscal year 2000 and each
fiscal year thereafter [para. 5.16(c)];
(j)   SMWC would complete, by June 30, 1995, a pro-forna revaluation of its
assets valued as at December 31, 1994 in accordance with criteria agreed
with the Bank and, thereafter, make annual adjustments in accordance with
criteria agreed with the Bank [para. 5.16(b)];
(k) SMWC would, commencing not later than fiscal year 1995, be permitted to
collect and retain the surcharge made when a large water user exceeds the
water quota allotted to it [para. 5.16(d)];
(1)   SMWC would, before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, prepare
forecasts sadstory to the Bank (i) to review whether it would meet the
requirements set fourth in para. 7.1(i) above in such year and the following
fiscal year; and (ii) to furnish the results of such review to the Bank. If any
such review would show that SMWC would not meet the requirements set
out above, SMWC would take all necessary measures, including adjustments
to structure or levels of its tariffs and charges, in order to meet the
requirements [para. 5.16(e)];
(m)  SWWTP would, commencing in fiscal year 1995, be permitted to bill,
collect and rein all revenues from its nondomestic tariffs and charges
elating to wastewater collection, treatment and disposal in Songjiang Town
(pam. 5.24);
(n)   SWWTP would, commencing in fiscal year 1996, produce revenues
sufficient to (i) cover its operating costs and the amount by which debt
service requirements exceed depreciation and (ii) have a debt service
coverage of at least 1.3 (para. 5.24);
(o)   SWWTP would, before September 30 in each fiscal year, prepare forecasts
satisfactory to the Bank to review whether it would meet the requirements
set forth above in such year and the following fiscal year, and to furnish the
results of such review to the Bank [para. 5.24]; and
(p)   SSC would for each fiscal year produce revenues sufficient to cover (i) its
total operating costs; and (ii) the amount by which its debt service
requirements exceed depreciation; and to have a debt savice coverage of at
least 1.3 [para. 5.28 (a) and (b)].



- 47 -
7.2         The following understandings were obtained during negotiations and referred
to in the minutes of negotiations:
(a)   Implementing agencies would be authorized and instructed to adopt a
15-year planning horizon for infrastructure investments (para. 2.32);
(b)   SMWC would make adequate provision in planning for the expansion of Da
Qiao intake and conveyor to Linjiang to cater for possible abstractions to
meet future demands beyond the existing capacity of 5.4 million m3/day
[para. 3.5(a)(i)];
(c)   Industries in Wujing and Minhang neighborhoods would pretreat, as
necessary, and make connections to the 'northern trunk sewer, when
completed [para. 3.5(b)(ii)];
(d)   SESAB would before December 31, 1996 assume responsibility for
providing collection and safe disposal services for nonhazardous industrial
solid wastes on request from the industry [para. 3.5(c)(ii)(1)];
(e)   Treatment and disposal facilities for nonhazardous industrial waste would
be established before the temporary landfills are closed down [para.
3.5(c)(ii)(2)]; and
(f)   Sewer connections in SongJiang County and Wujing and Minhang
neighborhoods would be facilitated (para. 5.25).
7.3         The following are conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)   Execution of subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank between
SM and (i) SMWC, (ii) SSC and (iii) SWWTP (para. 3.9);
(b)   Approval of the Loan Agreement by the State Council of China (pam. 3.9);
(c)   Conclusion of the agreement to operate and finance the operational costs of
the proposed Taihu Pumping Station in an acceptable manner (pana. 5.13);
and
(d)   Increase in SMWC's tariffs to levels that would permit it to meet its 1994
financial covenant (para. 5.17).
7.4         Subject to the foregoing, the proposed project would be suitable for a Loan
of $160 million equivalent for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate, to the People's Republic of China.






- 49 -                                    ANNEX 1
ORGANIZATION OF ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION
IN CHINA
|Pople's Republic
of China
Sitat Council
3Biijing, Shanghai            Provincial &               National                  Miniatrio,s
& Tianj in                 Autonomoue             Izvironmental                 State
Mhnicipal                   Regional               Protection                Commiasions
Governments                Gvormnents                 Agency                 Admdnistration
Provincicl
Environt atl
Protection
Bureaus(EPBO
_oermenvn.ats
Si ll r
Arrangemat_.
as under                                             hncl-
Huicpal                                              U BB
Covonrsnts
Urbald
District L
Couty
Urba, 
DistrictL
County EPB~
| Urba
Neighborhood,
Town, TownabLip
|        | Urb^n ~I ogh-
borhood, Tovn,
Township EP
Office.






-50-                                                          ANNEX2
WATER AND AIR QUALITY STANDARDS IN CHINA
ENVIRONmEwAcL QUALITY STAARD FoR SURFACE WATR
CHNES STANARD GB 3838-88 (REPLAaNG GB 383843)
IN1              C 5               j   II Ow la    I   cO     a     I   c-.w                  I C" v
AUl .sur _S."   w s  4M sn   a, f...&..sa -s. i, ,r-, .,
M. AA PM*pa66  m11sn *15 S"- ta,au& a e-us'.. p       ,ea.
,, Plsa"M msUr  a. A   fl"  . fi*M   es.-5.. tl f "Mr v .45uy r   n
C l'TiAaC *    sI.w    .t.      if    rasy   _         . _ .  _
4 Kuula4. _P    *w Ois      aw..*   b_ sr n     .    s  ..
I. Gas * a o,- . * &  ,.     a...   a a b   u.m
2'   ~I4              r ____*______       n ________   ______   _*_            t4_ 
I   V r,zr _>nr4      ~A"fg vaass 4  t-tn_4 nr. a saiegr onlrd < I
d"mi C    *       r    Cvmases vmmif d_ us -mm Pane <c
3  Sssspsss (3051 -                 210              210              zw    ]-1
4I I    C       Cnd s(0) _             210   [          2S0!             2IN 1             240   1            2o
1               | 1s                       i               oJ.6  MM -C  0-             _     o.   I         _    zo
TowiShA.sm * I                                                            0.1   1          0. S i0
7  __T__                       __-e_e_                   1.0 0.           1*   1           L.0                1.0
i                                                  1.1,         MAi 0.0:)               0                   z::j
|  TZ ^ as <       }        ~~~~~0.05  M     .1.O,      Ma 0.o I                 10   1       
S.ua.  IsI    I) -C                                    I I __  to_ _  I  12
| 10 1      T    .aM    CM              0.0:  I          0.1            0 O      I          1.0   112
1.1     D.rs OM   A           I        0.02              6O    I 0               I           3    _____O_
I!                                          001   woa<                 Loo.1I o.s_____                             2.::
10 i   TUM.Vl      4  e_                                 am 0.0:                 I 0.1(     a 0.  0.:   j      0:
2      Tea psu" <                   C         sS  a 0. L    r.&)  0        1. I         a   i     _     _         I
TaI.. PI  C                    .               O. 3    I      0~        I         .                  01
t3      Csm su Me      a -C s             2   1          .o . *                                    -- T ID
2i    DTeaI *.. M             I        Ci L   I         am                     j I           3                 0.1
I sI    COD -CW I                           U    |IU                       U    I ___                           Zs__
171 SODS <                      I        I   I                                                              10   t Il
.1 I     un"* (&S 4r C                   1.0   f                           1. .0   1        1.3   1            1.3
V9I }                4    I.0         1 C  0.02   I                      0.3               021 =    - , _        :_,
*0MI    Tl n   .C                             r         2 O.03 I          0.  iI            0.:.               0 1
21I    T.us T  i. -C          I      0.0000   I :.moo0                  O.ool I .a wl0.                     0.3  
= I    Tl" esnasZ <           I        o1.m11          G.       0.00        3  .O         0.005   S            01 L
M3     3           l<  0l.0    I                          .td 3           o.td             O.t'   I            0.
2- Tl               < I                    0.01   I                          0.0                      1            0.01i1l
:N i    TZ * ^-  <   |    F tirM  |~~~Mal 0.010'0     rfi    0: MS)1 j                              .
iupy  prciu  n.                                (fiCnZa a.oon *150  (fr O.O fis  sI h
:sw,,;   .....61 ;Pee               .0M2 I         atx :             0305               021                 it1
11  M:s.. lass-ls as source aa001s                  1 2    .0S     O       .O S             0.:
:s  .Um.S  $.d.ua                                    O  .      .:   ! 0.:   1          0.3                 2 3 1
:9      _^ i :.Ilta  r>4l   I                             :OoO
)sC     3:s. supL) <          I     o0  MU                   ub         O 1s .
IV  Msiy  md for water soures. moral ifuru1   up.    uuoa  lr_a.
n   Miriy syLoe as source ua runt ra  protcort area for cmstusurl drnkl  reer
ou;piy. ptrccous rLst prwacL* rc . spawning g-oftd for fuhand u&t repa.
:11 nMo-y s,:i bodiys asaumeot in  tor cu roa.a
e.-'vrnj   ge sut  pply, fishery prosmic  wa  and publie swrns  ^g arL
V   Mas.sy su=sic for *Sg  d.uadl -.uar s_uply. ai        t    am ares" for loPsin.
sc.e  WAInc-  s -actr r:i=c a si..onc *'r a nuz1cr of poasiasJ as,. class&rd=:on -wl  be accrorng to
ii        j are. W'here Mc.-c  1eas.s dtcrenc: ba.-r. asasoau. ro ras. &L&ssafi&Aon c"a be asd.



- 51 -                                         AN  2
AIR ENVIRONMENTAL QUALrY STANDARD
CBWNESE STANARD GB 3095-85
A.r cnvLro=neotal qualiry uS divided Dnw _ce clAsse  as foUows:
Class I       Required for the prot--ioc of amrual ecoloy and human heslth frc=
bamful effecu under loag tem exposue.
Class UI      Required for the protectioa  of hunsm  beslth and Lai  and vegetauon
in urbaz ad rural areas against harmfl coctstions Eh:t can arise
under long and shor tenrm ex;posure.
Class m       Required for the protection of bumau  -.omu:n.ies agaiast acute or
chronic toxic illnesses, and for nor'al growth of animal and vegetation
life (e_:pt for tiose wimh a!Hergic comditioms).
The hifi!ig  - Ir r.f te air poiltZ=Ls fcr Lhe three staieards
are lisLo.:- the  hl- below.
|I          '-:_g: L      tmlisumd'rd --
Pollutant                 Sazzzlimg Tizc         I   Class I   1   Class II            C:ass m    I
Total Suspended             jDaily Avengte'               (1S       |    0.30              C.50
S_ li_s_                  Ay  I:idwc        -e    0.30                 1.00             1.50
)us.                        Daly Avenge       -           0.05            0.15            0.25
_Azy Incident                 0.15            0.50             0.70
Sulphur Dioxide             Yearly Averaset               0.02            0.06             0.10
Daily Av-age                 0.05            0.i5             0.25
. IDcident                   0.15            0.50             0.70
NiLrou.s Oxides             Daily Avernge                 0.05            0.10             0.1S
Anv Incident            I     0.10            0.15           0.30
C.rnom Monoxide             Daily Avenge|                 4.00            4.00             6.00
A--v Ln::dez           I    10.00            10.00      t    __._t _
_____ _____ _____ _____ ____ _____ __________                   ___I         20.00
L.4.t Che:mstry             One Hour Avenge               0.12            0.16             0.20
OL^'toz Rc2cnzt                                     j _|
(O ,)I
N'otes
*            'Daily vesa-g  refers to the lamit which  u  am be  ede by tbe average of
the sapJa tkm it a day.
''Ay Lacidmt' mefmr to the limit which muK ami be eacded by any ample saL
"Yeary Avcrate' refen to the liait whoch =u   t be e     by the avenge in a
year of the 'dtiy average&' amur d.
T.S.P.         Toal suwpeLded solids tefer to pamcuhaea wvh.ch am smaler tde 100 LicroeA.
Dust           Dut rcfers to pmnuculu whch ar smalccr then 10 mucrom. This iteAm   a
reference xandrd onrly.
Ozone          Light Cbec.ury Ouodaon Reagent (03). one hour average value should sot be
cxccded once :n a :monh.



-52 -                          ANNEX 3
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.          The components of the proposed project investments are described in detail
below and summarized in tabular form.
A. PC1-DRBnKNG WATER QUALuy PROTECoToN: RELOCATION OF
RAW WATER INTAxE FROM LNeNG T  DA QIAO ($291.7 million)
2.          Introduction. The scheme is designed for the year 2000, based upon the
relocation of the raw water intake for the major potable water supply for Shanghai, from
Linjiang to Da Qiao, with a raw water capacity of 5.4 Mm3/d, together with urgent
rehabilitation of existing treatment facilities. The scheme components include allowing
flexibility for future expansion by about 50 percent if this is deemed appropriate in the
light of longer-term demand analyses and comparison of alternatives for least-cost
development.
3.          Da Qiao Intake Scheme. The scheme is designed to cater for the peak
daily demand in the year 2000 of 6.6 Mm3/d based on the medium demand forecast. A
total of 5.0 Mm3/d of fully treated water would be provided from the Da Qiao source.
This equates to a raw water capacity of 5.4 Mm3/d when the assumed 8 percent
transmission and treatment losses are taken into account; Figure 1 shows a schematic
layout of the new water conveyor system. The works would comprise:
(a)   Intake on the north bank of Huangpu river located about 1.5 kam
downstream from Songpu bridge comprising the intake structure, screens,
pipelines, pump station, and miscellaneous works;
(b)   Intake Pumping Equipment comprising about 12 variable- and fixed-speed
pumps each of capacity of about 6.5 m3/sec;
(c)   Balancing Tank at Intake of about 40,000 e capacity;
(d)   Raw Water Conveyor System comprising the following culverts and
pipelines: from Intake to Zhong Che Cun, about 14.2 kam of four-section
culvert of about 3.75 m * 3.25 m size; from Zhong Che Cun to Linjiang,
about 4.0 km of four-section culverts of about 3.6 m * 3.25 m size; Zhang
Che Cun to Changqiao branch, about 3.0 km of two-section culvert of about
3.9 m * 3.25 m size; Longxi branch of about 2.5 kn of pipeline/tunnel of
about 2.2 m diameter; Changqiao branch of about 3.5 km of pipeline/tunnel
of about 3.5 m diameter; Linjiang tunnel comprising a length of about



- 53 -                                         ANNEX 3
Figure 1: SCEMATIC DErAIs OF DA QUo SCHME
Gencral Layout
/       ;                      wenwT
Do Qao PS&                                       Z./ jtv/                               /
Balancing tank                                                S      
me im ,cl d I. in hs project
WTW-Wag.tTiwem   Air w atkj                                                         hmgloP
(9    ~~~~  >  _ < |~~Nr                                                     LinJisng PS|
WTW-Wac.r T,_.^mm Works                                                                  f
PS Pump Sti 3
Hydraulic Profile
Legend           12,,                                                            Longxd
Pressure Envelope                                               7 , 7l io7mn
Treatment Works
Pumping Station
Changqiao
. 1,,. 8, ,v, s t-^s  0   ~  ~     ~    ~ ~ m                         1.71
s  i  '  '<i'g'" '' ==2_ D orLl ;~~~~~~~~~injang
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
Da Qiso Intake                                ZhwanCho  Cun                             Huang Pu
and Pump Station                                                                       River Crossing



- 54 -                        ANNEX 3
0.7 klm of about 4.0 m diameter (to be constructed by SMWC utilizing
separate funding);
(e)   Pump Station at Changqiao of capacity of about 1.7 Mm3/d with about
five pumps each of capacity of about 4.25 m3/sec and about three pumps
each of capacity of about 1.0 m3/sec, 10 m head; and
(f)   Balancing Tank at Linjiang of about 20,000 ni capacity (to be constructed
by SMWC utilizing separate funding).
4.          Rehabilitation of Existing Facilities. This comprises the rehabilitation of
treatment plants, control systems and other works included in the project including:
(a)   Yangshupu Water Treatment Plant comprising replacement of chlorine
equipment of about 2,400 kg/hour capacity; alum dosing plant of about
120,000 liters/hour installed capacity; and ammonia plant and equipment of
about 160 kg/hour capacity; together with civil works;
(b)   Nanshi Water Treatment Plant comprising civil works and hydraulic
improvements of 0.95 Mm3/d capacity; and
(c)   Telemetry and Central Control comprising communication and control
system for SMWC's water supply operations.
5.          The following items of work, which are outside the scope of PC1, are
essential to ensure the complete integrity of the PCI works. These additional works would
be carried out by SMWC under its normal annual program of works utilizing local funds:
Desroton                   Estimated Cost
(Y million)
Longxi Treatment Works                 350               1996-98
Trunk main program               under programming       1994-97
Linjiang pumps & main to Yangsi        280               1997-98
Linjiang Treatment Works               280               1997-98
Linjiang Tunnel and Shafts              20               1993-97
B. PC2-UPPER HUANGPU CATCHMNT POLLUrMON CONTMOL ($64.6 million)
6.         Introduction. The Huangpu Catchment, which extends over an area of
23,800 kIn, is a network of waterways, all of which receive polluting discharges from
domestic, agriculture and industrial sources. It is therefore of the utmost importance that
water quality in the river is afforded the required degree of protection for drinking water
purposes. It is necessary to implement and operate an effective water pollution control
strategy for the whole catchment to maintain the drinking water quality from the Huangpu
River in the long term for the water supply for Shanghai. Factors that need to be taken



- 55 -                        ANNEX3
into account in such a strategy include the tributaries entering the river and the need to
control development in critical areas of the river catchment.
7.          Wujing/Minh   Wastewater Conveyance System.   This project
component would comprise the following works:
(a) Wujing/Minhang trunk wastewater conveyance system comprising about
15 km of reinforced concrete-lined tunnel, tunnels, culverts, pipelines, or
other construction, in sizes in the range 0.8 to 2.5 m, access shafts and/or
pump stations to convey wastewater from south to north through Wujing and
Minhang, including an inverted syphon crossing the Huangpu River;
(b)   A system of secondary conveyor sewers comprising about 25 km of pipes
of reinforced concrete or other materials in the range 300 to 1,600 mm
diameter; and
(c)   System and property connections totaling about 35 m length in sizes between
200 and 300 mm diameter.
Flows would eventually discharge into the Changjiang (Yangtze River) at Bailongang
through the proposed east-flowing conveyor. The assimilative capacity of the proposed
outfall at Bailongang as reported by SMG was reviewed during negotiations and found to
be satsfactory.
8.         The component would be supported by strengthened pollution control in the
Upper Huangpu Catchment comprising a program to address industrial and other pollution
at various locations in the catchment in accordance with a time-bound Action Plan. The
program, which would not be financed under the project since other sources of finance are
available, would focus on selected in-factoryu process change and effluent pretreatment,
principally at 33 priority industrial units to ensure compliance with standards for discharge
to the sewerage system (see para. 9 below).
Industrial Wastewater Pollution
9.          Analysis of the industrial data bases covering some 600 major polluters with
discharges exceeding 10,000 m3/d has been undertaken and the 33 priority polluting
industries determined on the basis of annual discharge loads covering Chemical Oxygen
Demand (COD), Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD), Suspended Solids (SS), Phenols and
Oil. These pollution loads were considered together with location in relation to Da Qiao
intake and hydraulic considerations to determine the priority industries that are responsible
for most of the industrial pollution in Shanghai Municipal area, contribute between 50 and
80 percent of the overall pollution load, and contribute of the pollution at Da Qiao.



- 56 -                         ANNEX-3
Options for Mnhang and Wuiing Discharges
10.        Earlier studies indicate the important need to control the industrial discharges
in Minhang and Wujing in order to safeguard the drinking water quality of the Huangpu
River at Da Qiao. At present, these wastes discharge directly into the Huangpu over a
30 km stretch of river between Minhang (only 10 km below Da Qiao) and Linjiang. This
situation is a serious cause for concern, particularly during adverse tidal conditions at times
of low (or negative) net river flow at Da Qiao.
11.        It is important that the proposed measures to improve water quality by
control of these discharges are effective, economic and readily enforceable. Control of
these discharges, some of which are understood already to be partially treated, requires
investment on the part of industry and this approach would not remove problems of plant
upsets and releases of pollution as a result of spillage or leakages from storage tanks.
12.         Where discharges currently exceed the discharge standards, a fee is payable.
The fee rates are understood not to have been increased since 1988, although the charge
is increased by 5 percent for each successive year that standards are not met. Although
the levels of the fee and water tariff are such that it is probably not economic to use
dilution by mains water to achieve standards, nevertheless the levels of fee appear to be
too low to have the required incentive purpose in respect of complying with standards.
This would clearly impact upon the preparedness of industry to undertake treatment plant
investment at projected financing cost.
C. PC3-SONGJIANG WASTEWATER POLLUrMON CONTROL ($38.9 million)
13.        Introduction. The Songjiang Wastewater Pollution Control works are an
essential part of the Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution Control program and comprise
the extension of the existing sewerage system, property connections and wastewater
treatment at Songjiang.
14.         The provision of new wastewater collection and disposal facilities for Sijing,
a fast-growing industrial town with a population of about 15,000, located some 13 kam to
the north of Songjiang and about 20 km from the Huangpu River, would be dealt with
under a subsequent program since the pollution load from this center does not directly
affect the sustainability of Da Qiao intake. The Maogang Stud Stock Farm waste treatment
scheme, as a demonstration plant for the treatment of farmyard waste in the Upper
Huangpu Catchment, would also be executed under a separate program. Songjiang, Sijing
and Maogang are all located within Songjiang County.
15.         Songliang Wastewater Scheme. The scheme caters for wastewater flows
of 112,000 m3/d in year 2010 with trunk conveyor sewer extensions designed to meet this
requirement with phased implementation to suit the town planning development. The
extensions to the treatment facilities would be implemented in two phases, each of about
45,000 m3/d capacity. Each phase would comprise two procss streams. The works to
be implemented under this component of the project would comprise:



- 57 -                         ANNE 3
(a)   Trmk Conveyance System Extensions totaling about 22 km of reinforced
concrete or other pipe materials in sizes between 300 and 1,200 mm
diameter;
(b)   Link Sewers and Connection comprising about 30 km of secondary sewers
and property connections in sizes between 200 and 300 mm diameter,
including interception of dry-weather flows in existing combined sewerage
system and nightsoil from communal facilities;
(c)   Pump Stations. Reinforced concrete pumping structures, equipment and
electrcal connections of about 22,000 m3/d total capacity;
(d)   Refurbishment of Existing Wastewater Treatment Works to provide
effective treatment for about 18,000 m3/d of mixed wastewater; and
(e)   Wastewatr Treatwent Extension Works to provide effective treatment for
about 45,000 m3/d of mixed wastewater. The process would include
pnmary and secondary sedimentation, aeration and sludge digestion (one
stream only).
D. PC4-POLUmON SouRCESm WATER QuAL    MONTORING ($4.7 million)
16.         A new laboratory, to be operated by the Shanghai Municipal Environmental
Monitoring Center (SEMC), would be constructed close to the new intake at Da Qiao,
located on the bank of the Huangpu with nver access. The laboratory would allow SEMC
to centralize monitoring of the upper Huangpu Catchment, in terms of both river quality
and individual pollution sources. Suitable vessels would be provided to allow access to all
parts of the upper catchment for water quality monitoring to be undertaken, and for
samples to be returned rapidly to the new laboratory by river to minimize sample transport
time, thereby improving both monitoring efficiency and data reliability. Road vehicles
equipped with refrigeration facilities would be provided for sampling land-based pollution
sources.
17.         The new laboratory would be equipped with a wide range of analytical
instrumentation to enhance facilities both for the current routine monitoring activities and
to permit the analysis of a range of specific micropollutants. The latter is essential in view
of the industrial nature of the Huangpu Catchment and the fact that the Huangpu River
serves both as a potable water source and a receiving water for industrial wastewater
discharges, some of which may contain chemicals of concern in terms of quality of potable
water. Monitoring data management would be enhanced by the provision of computerized
information management systems.
E. PCS-MuMCVIAL SOUD WA= AM NIGErSOIL MANAGEMEr ($43.9 millon)
18.         The objectives of this project component are to alleviate the environmental
pollution and health risks associated with the present municipal solid waste and nightsoil



- 58 -                        ANNE 3
management practices; and to enhance the efficiency and productivity of the Shanghai
Environmental Sanitation Bureau's (SESAB) systems, equipment and manpower.
19.        Municipal Solid Waste (MSW).  The investment program proposes
measures that would yield long-term environmental improvements, including upgrading
landfills at Laogang and Jiangzen, closing down or controlling landfill oprations at
numerous temporary dumps in the city, and developing new collection, treatment and
disposal facilities for municipal and nonhazardous industrial solid wastes. The emergency
dump at Sanlintang, on the banks of the Huangpu River, would be removed and replaced
by a major waste transfer station, enabling the MSW to be taken to the Laogang Landfill.
20.         Measures to improve the cost-effectiveness and environmental conditions of
the collection and transportation systems would be implemented on an incremental basis.
Both the water and road transportation systems would over time be fully containerized.
Initially, it is proposed to upgrade four to six transfer stations (docks) along the Huangpu
River and Suzhou Creek for container transport, and to introduce compatible barges and
trucks. This would eliminate spillage of waste into the watercourses during barge loading,
and reduce the vulnerability of the system during inclement weather conditions.
21.         While the collection coverage is high, there is still scope for improvements.
It is proposed to start to replace concrete collection bins with covered plastic and steel
containers and compatible mechanized container-loading trucks, improving the
environmental conditions and enhancing equipment utilization, as manual loading is
eliminated. Competitive bidding for the provision of MSW collection services would be
tried out in two districts on a pilot basis, but this activity would have cost implication for
the short-term investment program.
22.         Nightsoil (NS). The nightsoil disposal system, based on storage, treatment
and farm application in the adjacent counties, no longer functions satisfactorily. The
demand for NS is diminishing, farmers prefemng commercial fertilizers. As the county
facilities become dilapidated and overloaded, uncontrolled dumping into the creeks and
rivers surrounding Shanghai takes place. The proposed NS improvement program would
(a) reduce the volume of NS by mechanical dewatering and discharging the supernatant to
existing sewers, and transporting the concentrated NS to the counties, and (b) phase out
the bucket latrines and septic tanks by connecting public toilets and buildings directly to
sewers. A pilot project is proposed in four subdistricts.
23.         People complain about NS spillage, public health hazards and smell from the
NS collection vehicles; to address this, improved collection vehicles would be introduced
through the project.
24.         Two technical assistance subcomponents are proposed to strengthen the
institutional capability of SESAB, one aimed at improving the management of information,
systems performance, accounts and service revenues; and the other aimed at enabling
SESAB to establish proper workshop and equipment management and landfilling
operations.



- 59 -                         ANNE  3
F. PC6-INsgTunoNAL STIENGTHENG TROUGH TECHNcAL ASSrANCE
Am STmIEs ($12.8 million)
25.         A comprehensive program of institutional strengthening, technical assistance,
studies and training are included that would support and complement proposed physical
investments. Details of the scope of work are contained in the reports prepared during
project preparation (fully described in Annex 18), and summarized below and in Annex 5.



PRojer COMPONENr SUMMARY
No.       Component            Location                 Description               Capacity/Size              Function
PCI  Drinking Water
Oualitv Protection
Intake and Pwnp      Da Qio             Reinforced concrete intake and   5.4Mm'/d            To absact raw water from
Station (PS)                            pump sructure, balancing reservoir                    Huangpu river and pump to
of 40,000m  capacity, 12 vertical                    Linjiang pump station, and
mixed flow pumps (each 6.Sm3Iusc,                    Cbangqiao and Longxi
17m head, 8 constant speed, 4                        Treatment Work
variable speed) meters, pipework,
electrical equipment
Conveyor             Da Qiuo to Zhang    Reinforced concrete low preue   4 No 3.25*3.7Sm      To convey SA4MmO/d rw
Cbo Cun            multiple section culvert         14.2km              water from Da Qiao to Zhang
Cho Cun
Conveyor             Zhang Cho Cun to   Reinforced concrete low premsur  4 No 3.25*3.60m      To convey 3.3Mm3/d raw
Linjiang Tunnel    multiple section culvert         4.0km               water from Zhang Che Cun to
Linjiang Tunnel
Conveyor             Thing Cbo Cun to   Reinforced concrete low premure  2 No 3.25*3.90m      To convey 2. Mm3/d raw
Changqiao Branch    multiple section culvert        3.0km.               water from Zhang Che Cun to
Changqiao Branch
Changqi&olLongxi     Branch to          Pressre pipeline, steel with mortar   1.7km 3.5m dia  To convey raw water to
Pipeline             Chbngqiao and      lining, cathodic protection      1.2km 2.2m din       Changqiao and Longxi
Longxi                                                                   Treatment Works
Changqiao Longxi     Changqiao and      Tunnel construction with reinforced   1. 8km 3.5m dia  To convey rw water to
Tunnels              Longxi             concrete segment or other lining  1.3km 2.2m dia      Changqiao and Longxi
Treatment Works
... Coninued



No.       Compont               Location                 Description              Capity/Si                  Function
Chsngqiao Pump       Changqiao          Reinforced concrete stutureb with    l.7MmY/d         To raise opreu  of raw
Station                                -  No sspended bowl constant                           water to inlet of Changqiao
speod Fump setb (5 No each of                        Treatmnt Works
4.25ml/sec, 3 No each of
1.Om3/sec, lOm head)
Nanshi Treatmnt      Yanqiso            Civil works and hydrulic          0.9SMMm/d           To improve pure of rw
Works                                   iovents                                               water to supply Nanshi
Treatment Works
Yangshupu            Yangshupu          Reinfored corete and building     1.4Mmi/dTo
Treatment Works      Tatment Work    mtucture with Chlorine, Mum and    replac outdated
Chemical Plant                          Ammonia dosing equipmont          chlorination, alum
and ammonia
dosing equipment
Telemetry and        Shanghai city,     Tdemetry and SCADA control                            Commnication and control
central control      Linjiang & Da      system for SMWC opeationl                             system for SMWC water
Qiao               control                                               supply operations
Power Supplies       Da Qiao &          Substtion and power supplies                          To prvide power sTplies for
Changqiao                                                                Da Qiso and Changqiao Pump
Sttions
Distribution System  Shanghai citywide   Pressure pipelines deeL, ductile iron  to be determined  Distribution improvement to
maerls to be selected                                 improve   em pressures
Ditribution Network   Shgnghai citywide   Sysemtic anlysis of disribution                     Detormine plamned
Analysis                                sydem                                                 strengthening of distibution
sydem
Miscellan            Shanghai           Miscellaneous opertion                                To support sydematic
Equipmnt                                equipment including flow met,                         network analysis and
pressure metr and softwae                             operational ctivities
. .. Continued  



No.       Component             Location                 Description               Capecity/Sizu               Function
PC2  Unper Huantou                                                              To be determined:    To ensr compliance with
Pollution Control                                                         33 priority         effluent discharge standards,
industries to be    control pollution levels in
In-factory          Wujing and         Construction of 'in-factoty       addressd             Hugpu catchment, and
Pretreatment         Minhang            effluent pretreatment facilities for                   sustain viability of Da Qiao
at Priority Industries                  those industries identified s major                    water supply system
polluters of Huangpu catchment
Wujing Sewer         Wujing and         Reinforced concrete culvert or pipe   1Skm             First Stage of system to
Primary Conveyor     Minhang            materials, tunnel constnrution or by                   convey 0. 7Mm/d wastewater
pipe jacking, with reinforced                         from Wujing/Minhang areas
concrtet  egment or other lining in                  to East China Sea
mies betweon 0.3 and 2.5m, pump
stations and ccess shafts, and
Huangpu River cossing
Wujing Sewer         Wujing and         Reinforced concrete or other pipe    25km              To convey wastewater from
Secondafy Conveyor   Minhang            materials in sizes between 300mm                       Wujing and Minhang areas to
and 1,600mm dia, and pump                             primary conveyor
stations
Link Sewes           Wujing and         Reinforced concrete or other pipe  35km                To convey wastewater to
Minhang            materials in sizes between 200mm                      tnmk sewer system
and 300mm dia
PC3  Sonniing
Wastewater Pollution
Songjiang          Extension of existing tunlk       6.7km 300mm dia    To convey wastewater to
Songjiang                               sewerage system, reinforced       5.7km 450mm dia    Songjiang Treatment Plant
Wastewater                              concrete or other pipe materials  1.4km 600mm dia
Conveyor System                                                           1.8km 800mm di&
3.3km lO00mmdia
3.2km 1200mmdia
.. Continued 



No.       Component             Location                  Description              Capacity/Size               Function
Songjiang            Songjiang           Reinforced concfete pump          I Nox2M,OOOm~/d     To convey wastewater to
Wasteater                                structus and equipment,           I Nox l,SOOm3/d     Sonajiag treatment plant
Conveyor Syem                            pipewo, screens, elcbical
equipment
Link Sewers and      Songjiang           Reinforced concrete or other pipe                     To convey wastewater to
Connetions                               materials, pump stations and                          tunk sewer system
equipment
Songliang            Son4iang            Extension of existing Songjiang  63,OOOm3/d           To treat wastewater from
wastewater                               WTP fom 18,000/d to                                   Songjiang to acceptable
Treatment Plant                          63,000m3/d with treatment                             quatity for discharge to
(WTP)                                    Pc    comrising primar and                            Huangpu river
secondary sdimentation, aertion
and sludge digestion
PC4  Water Ozlitv
Da Qiao            Reinforced concrete and building                       Huangpu river water quality
Monitoring Center                        construction to house equipment,                      monitoring facility.
laboratory, for water quality
monitoring and analysis.
Water Monitoring     Da Qiao             Supply and instIlation of                             Huangpu river water quality
Equipment                                equipment and facilities comprising,                  monitoring fcility.
analytical equipment, 2 No boats
for river water sampling, 2 No
vehicles for oporations.
LAbonato             Da Qiao             Supply of computerized lboortory                      To improve water quality data
Informction                              data management system                                mnagement
Managemet Sydem
... Continued



No.       Component             Location                 Description               Capacity/Size              Function
PCS  Municitl Solid
Waste and Niehtsoil
Manatement
MunicipR1 Solid
W"o                  Ssalintang          Excavate, transport and diopose of    147,000 tons    To provide facility for solid
MSW stockpiled at the site,                           waste transfer operations
Sanlintang Tranfer                       Convert the site to a transfer staion
Station Civil Works                      for barge to road container
tanwspoirtation.
Transfer Station     Sanlintang          Rail track crane for 17 rni (alt. 10    4,750 tons/day  Equipment for transferring
Equipment                                n3) containers,                                       containers to trucks or
storage.
Trport System        Sanlintang to       Flatbed trucks for 2 containers per    70             To tranport solid waste from
laogang Lanfill   load.                                                   Sanlintang to Laogang
Landfills.
Leogang Landfill     LAogang            Improving the infratcture for     -                    Upgrading of Laogang
Civil Works                             container truck trsportation,                          Landfill site.
upgrading road bridge and repair of
weighbridges.
Loogang Landfill     Laogang             Equipment for unlooding containers   4 container cranes,    Improving the barge
Equipment                               and transportation to landfill site.  16 tipping trucks,  unloading capacity and
Equipment for improved waste     2 compectors, 1      upgrading the disposal
compaction in the landfill, and  mobile compositor    medhods at Laogang Landfill
production of compost to be used as                   site.
cover MAterial.
Laogang Landfill     Laogan              Monitoring and laboratoy         Wells and            Monitoring the groundwater,
Monitoring                              equipment                         sampling pumps,      surface water and air quality
and portable gas    at the landfill.
monitors.
... Continued



No.       Component            Location                 Description              Cspcity/Size               Function
Jiangzien Landfill   Pudong             Site improvement, excavation and    1.2 million tons  Improve the environmental
Civil Worb                              plaing cover material on old fill,                   conditions at the landfill.
build leachate handling system and
monitoring wells.
Jiangrzhn Landfill   Pudong             Povide steel wheeled compctor.   I No.               Improved wast compsction
and loger useful life of the
site.
Tempoay Duwp         Xinjin, Dacng,    Cloing down 2 and refurbishing 5    1.0 miflion tons  Improving the envionment
Sites Civil Works   Jin Quio, Qiyi      sites.                                               and upgrading for temporary
(2), Gucun and                                                          uo existing dump sites.
Ho
New LandfiU Sites   Various           Siting and prepartion of new      -                   To provide suitable landfill
Civil Works                            landfill sites for MSW and                            sites closer to the waste
industrial waft.                                     generation areas West of           
Suzhou Creek.
Trnsfer Docks Civil   Huangpu River     Demolition of existing buildings,  4-6 docks         Contanerization of waste for
Works                and Suihou Creek.  new foundations, buildings,                          improved trprtation.
concrete slabs and river walls.
Water Transport      Various            Modify existing 100-ton barges for   36 No.          Improved efficiency,
System                                 contsiner trnsport, and supply of    108 No.          environment and workers'
new 80-ton barges.                                   sfety
Container System     Various            Supply 17 m? (alt. 10 mn)        823 No.             As Above.
containo.
Collection System    Various            Remove concreb bins and replace    1,000 No.         Improve the environmental
Civil Works                            with encloses and steel and/of                        conditions at collection points.
plastic bins.
. Continued



No.       Component            Location                  Description              Capacity/Size              Function
Collection Sydem     Various            Supply bin-lifting collection    50 No.               Improve the collection
velicles,                                            efficiency.
Pilot Collectdon     Shanghai           Contracting out collection services    2 districts   Improved collection sevices.
Project                                 in open competition. No additional
investments.
Nightsoil
Zhabei and Putuo    Build dewatering stations,      4 subdistrict pilot  Study the feasibility of NS
Pilot Project        Districts          connecting septic tanks at public  area              dewatering and discharge to
toilets to sewers.                                   sewers.
Nightsoil Hadling    Shanghai           Supply of collection vehicles and  30 No.             Volume reduction before
Equipment                               mobile sludge dewatering units.   2 No.               trn  ation and disposal.
PC6  Technical Assistance.
Project Mansaement
and Tmaining
Water Distribution   SMWC               Local/Foreign Technical assistance    -               To assist SMWC in
Analysis                                and equipment                                         systematic analysis of the
distribution network system
for improved operational
planning.
Shanghai             SEPB               Local/Foreign Technical assistance                    To improve the efficiency and
Environment                                                                                   effectiveness of SEPB
Tmining Center                                                                                Trining Center.
Financial Accounting   SMWC             Local/Foreign Assistance                              To assist SMWC in the
nd Managemnnt for                                                                             development of improved
SMWC                                                                                          financial accounting efficiency
and techniques.
. .. Connnued



No.       Component             Location                 Description               Capcity/Size                Function
Water Supply         SMWC                lAxal/Foreign Technical Assi     -                    To improve opertional
Inflvmation Sytem                                                                              efficiency, long-rtnge
planning capcity and
facilities managment.
Istitutional         SESAB               Local and foreign technical                           Stgthod tochnical and
StUghening                               assistanc to develop mangemet                         financial manaement, and
information sydsem, budget and                       improved service
accomting prc       and billing                       performance.
system.
Workshop             SESAB               Local and foreign techmical                           Improved maintenance and
Mangement                                assistanc to enble SESAB to                           rq,ir routines and vehicle
establish proper workshop                             utilization.
maae3t.
Future Project       Shanghai            Local/Poreign Technical Aistane   -                   To assist SMO and concerned
Prepration                                                                                     agencies in prepartion of
future investment programs
Wujing Sewer         SSPCC               Local/Foreign Technical Aistance   -                  To assist SSPCC in
Feasibility/Design                                                                             formulating least-cost study/
design options.
Huangpu River Basin   SEPB               Local/Foreign Tchnical Aidstac   -                    To assist SEPB/SEMC in
Monitoring           SEMC                                                                      implementing Huangpu basin
Infonnstion Sysem                                                                              water quality management.
and Water Quality
Modeling
Poect Mangement   Songjiang and          Local/Foreign Tchnical Aidance   -                    To assist in management
Study/Design         Other                                                                     studies and design studies.
... Continued



No.       Component             Location                 Description               Capcity/Siu                Function
Water Supply Mister   SMWC              Local/Foreign Technical Assidsane   -                  To assist SMWC in
Plan                                                                                           developing a sound basis for
long-term water supply
developmmts in Shanghai.
Strategic Planning   Shanghai Urban     Local/Foreign Technical Asistanc    -                  To assist SUPDRI in
Information System   Planning and                                                              forrmlating and implerenting
Design Research                                                          a high level stdrtegic
Institute (SUPDRI)                                                       information system.
Institutional Support   and Mapping                                                            to prde digital map  t
Institute (SMl)                                                          bases in line with SMI's
agreed sftrtegy of information
systems.
Information System   Shanghai           Local/Foreign Technical Assistance                     To strengthen SUCIS office
Construction                                                             capacity to provide guidance
Commission                                                               and leaders por a
(SUCIS)                                                                  networked information system
for Construction Commission
agencies.
Trinine
Project Training     Songjiang WWTC    Training of SWWTC personnel in    -                     Improved agency capability.
construction technology and
operation
Pollution Soumres    SEPB Monitoring    Training of SEPB personnel in     -                    Iroved agency capability
and Water Quality    Center             opertion  d n maintenance of                           aefficiency in operation of
Monitoring                              monitoring equipment                                   water quality monitoring
equipment for sustained river
quality control.
Wastewater           Shanghai Agencies   Training of sector professionals in    -              Improved agency capability
Treatment                               recent wastewater technology                           for future, applications of
Technology                              development options in relation to                     wastetr tchnology
local applications






SUMMARY Accoutrs Cosw SUmmARY
RMB                              USS                          X Total
------------------------------    ---------------------------   X Foreign      Base
Local   Foreign     Total       Local  Foreign    Total     Exchange     Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                      924.7     833.3    1758.0       106.3    95.8    202.1          47.4       57.6
B. Materlsis & Equipment            223.1     530.6     753.7        25.6    61.0      86.6         70.4      24.7
C. TA & Training                     23.6      70.8      94.4         2.7      8.1     10.8         75.0       3.1
D. Land Acquisitn & Resetimt        102.5       0.0     102.5        11.8      0.0     11.8          0.0        3.4
E. Design, Spn and Mgt              301.4       0.0     301.4        34.6      0.0     34.6          0.0       9.9
F. Construction Supervision           0.0      44.0      44.0         0.0      5.1      5.1        100.0        1.4
Total BASELINE COSTS               1575.4    1478.7    3054.1       181.1    170.0   351.0          48.4      100.0
Physicat Contingencies           185.0     164.0     349.0        21.3     18.9    40.1          47.0       11.4
Price Contingencies              513.4      56.0     569.4        59.0      6.4     65.4          9.8       18.6
.                                    -     -     -    -      .  -   - . . -   -.
Total PROJECTS COSTS               2273.8    1698.7    3972.5       261.4    195.3    456.6         42.8      130.1
a======  =f=========    mftgf===-r=3===                    ft==    ====  s== ==s
_________________  ______________.__-  ______    --_ _  --  - -  _.._____________________________._____...________
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 -  2/2/1994  16:43



SUMMARY AccouNs BY YEAR
(Yuan)
Totals Includlng Contingencies                           Totels Including Contingencies
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   198  Total          1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998  Total
gss--3us3.s----s..R.M.fl.t3....uul.*us-- u---n---sm.s--.u-    u.ufu..Usa-uu..3U.n-su.MSSSS-e------------ ws--stncruwu
1. IIVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. Cvlil Works                     1.9  654.7  933.2  620.0  154.7    3.9  2368.3         0.2   75.3  107.3   71.3   17.8    0.4  272.2
B. Materials & Equipuwnt           0.0  231.1  525.1   80.7   47.4   22.5  906.8          0.0   26.6   60.4    9.3    5.4    2.6  104.2
C. TA & Trainlng                   0.0   18.7   19.3   30.2   21.0   22.0  111.1          0.0    2.1    2.2    3.5    2.4    2.5   12.8
0. tand Acquslitn * Resetltmt     11.4   63.1   29.0   13.1   14.0    0.0  130.6          1.3    7.3    3.3    1.5    1.6    0.0   15.0
E. Design. Spn and Ngt             0.2  106.7  181.9   86.1   25.7    3.9  404.7          0.0   12.3   20.9    9.9    3.0    0.5   46.5
F. Construction Supervislon        3.0   14.1   17.2   13.0    3.3    0.4   50.9          0.3    1.6    2.0    1.5    0.4    0.0    5.9
Total PROJECT COSTS               16.6  1088.5  1705.6  843.0  266.1   52.7 3972.5        1.9  125.1  196.0   96.9   30.6    6.1  456.6
Values  caled b  100000.........................................0-2/2/1994 .16:43
E            ~~~~Values Scaled by 1000000.0 2/2/1994  16:43 



- 71-                          ANNEX6
TERMS OF REFERENCE: PC6-TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINNG
INSITuloNAL STRENGTHNING FOR SUCIS IMPLENAnoN
Background
1.          To support the dynamic economic growth of the City of Shanghai and ensure
that there is a coherent basis for planning the related required urban services, the Shanghai
Municipal Government (SMG) has been investigating and planning Geographic Information
System (GIS) implementation. A decision was made in 1987 was made to establish a
computerized system to manage the large of amounts of information required for urban
planning, infrastructure development and construction, environmental management, and
urban services administration. A Project was established in the Construction Commission
to coordinate system planning and development designated the Shanghai Urban
Construction Information System (SUCIS).
2.          SUCIS focuses on implementation, by the year 2000, of a new shared system
for land and infrastructure records management to support governments' response to the
rapid pace of development in Shanghai and to facilitate management of infrastructure
construction and environmental management. SMG's Ten-Year Strategy for development
and implementation of SUCIS identifies 10 principal subsystems largely based on the
existing organizational structure of the Construction Commission: (a) mapping subsystem
[responsibility of the Surveying and Mapping Institute (SMI)]; (b) underground pipeline
subsystem-data base of municipal public facilities (water supply, sewerage, gas, electric
power, etc.); (c) housing and real-estate management subsystem; (d) urban planning
subsystem; (e) environmental sanitation subsystem; (f) environmental protection subsystem;
(g) construction commission headquarters office subsystem; (h) twaffic management
subsystem; (i) underground pipeline subsystem; and () land administration subsystem.
3.          As part of the Ten-Year Strategy, a pilot project was conducted in part of
an  inner urban district to help identify techniques, functionality, and institutional
mechanisms for SUCIS implementation. A Middle-Stage Project is now in progress as an
extension of the pilot project in order to provide a better test of data sharing and subsystem
integration. Participating agencies would each acquire their own technology and build their
own data base. Communication requirements and approaches are still being detemined.
4.          SMG is proposing to spend considerable resources on GIS technology by the
end of this decade. The eventual level of functional benefit would be directly related to
the manner in which this investnent is managed. At the present time, the overall SUCIS
initiative is being constrained by a lack of adequate resources (human, financial, technical)



- 72-
and a loosely defined information policy framework. Consequently, effective institutional
mechanisms required to implement SUCIS throughout Shanghai have not been adequately
designed nor are sufficient resources being allocated towards eventual implementation of
the system. Consultancy assistance under the Shanghai Environment Project (SEP) would
address the overall institutional development of SUCIS under this technical assistance (TA)
assignment.
5.          The mapping subsystem of SUCIS would provide the unified geographic base
for all the other subsystems. Topographical mapping is provided by SMI at two primary
scales in urban areas (1:500 and 1:2000) and contains many of the features used by other
agencies. There are approximately 4,800 1:500 scale maps that comprise the urban area
of Shanghai, compiled from aerial photography through stereo compilation and from field
survey measurements. The paper and mylar manuscripts covering the city are being
converted to computer format (digitized) by manual line tracing with simple DOS-based
CAD technology. However, the resulting digital data are not well suited to construction
of spatial entities as required for GIS implementation. A number of SMG agencies have
already acquired GIS software that requires GIS data formats, and several others are
preaing to acquire such software. To use the digital map data from SMI, the data must
be convertd to GIS format Assistance in doing so would be provided through this
assignment.
6.          The Shanghai Urban Planning and Development Research Institute
(SUPDRI), within the Construction Commission's Planning Bureau, has been working with
GIS technology in parallel with SUCIS development, including involvement in the Middle-
Stage Project. SUPDRI began GIS investigation and experimentation in 1987, and has
developed a system with limited scope in terms of data and applications. SUPDRI
currently requires assistance in developing a Planning Information System, as part of
SUCIS, to help guide strategic decisions on land uses, tanwsport, infrastructure, and
economic development in the rapidly growing metropolitan region. A related technical
SEP-supported assistance assignment would provide this expertise.
7.          The Shanghai Waterworks Company (SWC) is responsible for maintaining
and developing one of the largest urban water distribution systems in the world. It has
been involved in SUCIS since its inception, including participation in the pilot project and
the current Middle-Stage Project. SWC, along with its subsidiary organizations, requires
assistance in developing and implementing a comprehensive Water Information System for
Shanghai in order to manage its resources more effectively and efficiently in repair,
maintenance, and system augmentation. This assistance would be provided under the
fourth SUCIS-related SEP-supported TA assignment.
Objectives
8.          The aim of this TA (Institutional Strengthening for SUCIS Implementation)
is to enhance the following GIS-related institutional mechanisms within SMG to a level that
would enable the cost-effective implementation of SUCIS across Shanghai: policies
concerning organizational mandates regarding the gathering, processing, storage, retieval



- 73 -                         ANNEX 6
and dissemination of geographically referenced information; definition of roles and
responsibilities within SUCIS' constituent organizations; definition of realistic levels of
resources (human, technical, financial) to fulfill the required organizational mandates
within SUCIS, including measures to obtain, sustain, and eventually augment these
resources through the formal municipal budgeting and programming process (including
transparent measures for cost-recovery); systems for inter- and cross-organizational
exchange of information; an overall technology architecture that meets realistic
requirements of SUCIS' participants (including data communication and exchange); and
a monitoring and evaluation mechanism that would provide the necessary feedback to SMG
on technical, management, and financial aspects of SUCIS.
Scope of Work
9.          Much of the background work required for this TA has been performed by
the SUCIS General Office and in the course of CIDA-financed World Bank preparation
studies. These reports should be reviewed as background to the following tasks comprising
the work required under this TA: (a) analyze strategic issues concerning successful
implementation of SUCIS and achievement of the objectives outlined in the SUCIS Ten-
Year Plan; (b) in consultation with SMG agencies and the SUCIS General Office, develop
management principles dealing with the following technical issues: data management;
technology standards; system design methods and standards; and data communication and
exchange; (c) define standard interagency data management responsibilities including,
where possible, primary, secondary, and tertiary responsibilities and primary data
collection, storage, and maintenance responsibility by data set and agency; (d) develop
model interagency agreements for data sharing, exchange, and pricing, and facilitate actual
agreements between agencies or groups of agencies on related policy; (e) review options
for system financing and prepare recommendations for funding implementation and ongoing
operation of SUCIS; (f) establish the organizational structure for a secretariat to support
development and application of SUCIS policy and define professional competency standards
required to staff the secretariat; advise on the implementation of this secretariat; (g) design
a training program to develop skills required for SUCIS design and implementation; (h) in
consultation with SMG and SUCIS management, consolidate resolution of specific
management issues into a policy framework for SUCIS design and implementation;
(i) prepare a final report documenting immediate, intermediate, and long-term policy
directions, and indicating the steps linking policy requirements in each time period.
Work Organization and Program
10.         The Consultant would report to the SEP Office of SMG, and work closely
with the SUCIS Steering Committee and the SUCIS General Office.
11.         The TA would be conducted by a Consultant comprised of a single team
of Chinese and foreign specialists. Experdse of the Chinese specialists would include
systems planning and design; geographic data management and data base design;
information technology networks design and operation; and information technology
management and policy development.



- 74 -
Study Outputs and Reports
12.        An inception report defining the program of work and the key issues
requiring resolution would document the status of SUCIS development and define the key
issues to be resolved to successfully establish necessary implementation policy. The
inception report would also define the schedule of work, indicating the sequence of
subsequent worldng papers and a schedule of workshops. Each working paper would be
followed by a review period and a workshop. An Interim Report documenting proposed
modifications to the SUCIS policy framework and institutional changes required to support
implementation would be prepared. The Draft Final Report would be reviewed in a final
workshop prior to preparation of the final version of the Final Report.
13.        The following reports would be prepared and submitted by the Consultant:
RZort:                                 Due Date (from commencement of work):
Study Inception Report                           1 month after contract signing
Monthly Progress Report                                duration of assignment
Worling Papers                                to be defined in Inception Report
Interim Report                                              start of month 8
Draft Final Report                                          end of month 26
Final Report                                               end of month 30.
14.        Tbere would be a detailed review period after the submission of each report.
Reports would be preared initially in draft, and finalized after the aproval of the
Shanghai Environment Project Office (SEPO) and the SUCIS Leading Group. Twenty
copies of Draft Reports and 40 copies of Final Reports would be required. Reports would
be produced in English and Chinese.
Level of Effort
15.        Approximately 14 person-months of foreign and 70 person-months of local
consultant time is envisaged over a 30-month period. The multidisciplinary foreign team
should be comprised of specalias  in design of geographic information systems;
information technology policy and strategic planning; structuring multiagency information
technology projects; institutional development; and information systems training and
technology transfer.
Facilities to be Provided by the Client
16.         SEPO would enter into the contract with the Consultant and would be
responsible for logistical aspects and formal correspondence. Day-to-day contact and
working relationships, however, would be with the staff of the SUCIS General Office and
the SUCIS Leading Group. SEPO would use its good offices to fcilitate the Consultant's
work and nominate an officer to act in liaison with the World Bank, local counterpart
organizations, and the Consultant throughout the contract period.



- 75 -                         ANNEX 6
17.         The SUCIS General Office would provide:
(a)   furnished, serviced, cleaned and air-conditioned office accommodations,
together with telephone and telex facilities for noninternational
communication;
(b)   a designated, suitably qualified officer to work with the Consultant on a full-
time basis, together with selected line staff for both implementation and
tIaining, proposed as part of the project preparation process;
(c)   access to all available relevant reports and data required to undertake the
assignment; and
(d)   access to computer and communications hardware, software, and data bases
existing within the Shanghai Municipal Government's Construction
Commission considered necessary by the Consultant for the efficient and
effective conduct of the work.
Facilities to be Provided by the Consulant
18.         The Consultant would include in its proposal the following items:
(a)   all staff and personnel costs including international and local travel and
housing accommodations;
(b) interpreters and secretarial staff support; and
(c)   international communications costs and cost associated with report writing,
tnslation, and printing.
Comments by the Consultant
19.         The consultant is requested to make any comments on and suggestions for
improvements to these terms of reference in its technical proposal. The financial
implications, if any, of these suggestions and comments are to be shown separately.






-76-                             ANNEX7
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
($ million)
Bank fiscal year        Disbursement (S million)    Project             Bank
(FY) & semester         Semester      Cumulative       Profile      Profile L-
(2)            (2)
1994       Second           0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
1995/b     First           10.1           10.1            6.3            3.0
Second          9.9           20.0            12.5           6.0
1996       First          20.9            40.9           25.6           10.0
Second         26.0           66.9           41.8           18.0
1997       First          31.1            98.0           61.2           30.0
Second         23.7          121.7            76.1          42.0
1998       First           16.3          138.0           86.2           54.0
Second          8.6          146.6           91.6           66.0
1999       First            6.3          152.9           95.6           74.0
Second          3.3          156.2            97.6          82.0
2000       First            2.4          158.6           99.1           86.0
Second          1.4          160.0           100.0          90.0
2001       First                                           -            94.0
Second                                         -            98.0
2002       First                                           -            99.0
Second                                         -            99.0
2003       First                                           -           100.0
La Disbursement profile for China (all sectors), issued May 1992.
lk Includes Special Account disbursement of $9.0 million.






- 77 -                        ANNEX 8
LAND ACQUISIT[ON AND RESEITLEMENT PLAN
PC1-DRDNKG WATER QUALrrY PROTECON
REI'nzLENr PLAN ANIMPLmENTATION PROCEDURE
Introduction
1.         The relocation of the existing raw water supply intake from Linjiang to Da
Qiao is the principal component of the Shanghai Environment Project. In addition to
improving the river water quality for the people of Shanghai, a better investment climate
for the economic development of Shanghai and the Pudong New Area would be achieved.
2.          The eisting water intake is located in the polluted middle reaches of the
Huangpu and the present project is to relocate the intake in the upper reaches of the
Huangpu at Da Qiao near Songpu Bridge. The scheme would comprise:
(a)   5.4 Mm3 Raw Water Pumping Station at Da Qiao;
(b)   16.6 km long 4 box concrete culvert (each box 3.75 x 3.25 m) from Da
Qiao to a junction at Zhang Che Cun in the Caohang Township of Shanghai
County;
(c)   4.2 Ikm long 4 box concrete culvert (each 3.60 x 3.25 m) eastward to the
west bank of the Huangpu River at Linjiang;
(d)   o.72 Im long 4.0 m diameter tunnel across the Huangpu to enter a
regulating reservoir at Linjiang Pumping Station;
(e)   3.0 Ian long 2 box concrete culvert (each box 3.90 x 3.25 m) from Zhang
Che Cun northward to a bifurcation point (C) located on the south side of
the proposed outer ring road;
(f)   3.35 km long 3.5 m dia steel pipe including 1.1 km of 3.5 m dia tunnel
from point (C) eastward to Changqiao Water Works; and
(g)   3.15 km long 2.2 m dia steel pipe including 0.8 km of 2.2 m dia tunnel
westward to the new treatment works at Longxi.
3.          The works are located in Songjiang County, Shanghai County and Xuhui
District.



- 78 -                        ANNEX 8
4.         In order to minimize disruption, the works are located wherever possible in
open county.  The culvert would have a 2-meter cover to allow cultivation after
completion. Some areas of land would have to be acquired and a few dwellings would
have to be removed and their occupants resettled; some disruption would therefore occur.
All inhabitants and units affected would be given proper compensation and resettlement in
accordance with statuary regulations.
5.          Laws and Regulations Related to Demolition and Resettlement. The
Shanghai Government has officially approved the project in the document, 'Shanghai
Planned Investment' (1993) No. 51:
fThe water diversion from the upper reaches of the Huangpu
River second phase project is approved to be listed as a
subitem of the Shanghai Environment Project for the use of
the World Bank Loan."
6.          Shanghai Government Release (1987) No. 51, 'Utilization of Land
Acquisition Costs for State Construction in Shanghai City,' stipulates the responsible body
for land acquisition:
'Land acquisition is the sole responsibility of the County
People's Government under the organization and guidance of
the Land Administration Bureau of Shanghai City. Land
acquisition costs include land compensation, green crops
compensation, compensation for surface and underground
items of rural collectives and individuals, resettlement
allowances, construction and development funds for new
vegetable farms, land acquisition administrativc funds,
unforeseen expenses, and other expenses as stipulated by the
state and city.'
7.          The administrative requirements for land acquisition is contained in
"Shanghai Government Release' (1980) No. 119:
'At the time of land acquisition the necessary land for
construction must be assured and in addition the immediate
interests of local inhabitants must be considered.
The project unit responsible should make appropriate
arrangements for the livelihood of commune teams, units and
individuals affected.
All communes teams, units and individuals affected by land
acquistion should abide by the State Decrees and actively
support the State construction so as to ensure construction
starts on time.'



- 79 -                        ANNEX 8
8.          Compensation standards are set out in the document, 'Financial and Material
Compensation Criteria for Land Acquisition in Shanghai City.' Guidance on house
evaluation is contained in the document, 'Provisional Criteria for Housing Evaluation in
Shanghai City."
9.          The detailed administrative requirements are set out in 'Detailed
Implementation Regulations for Demolition and Resettlement in Shanghai," Decree No. 4,
People's Government of Shanghai. For demolition and resettlement of housing, the
following documents must be obtained: 'Approved construction plan, plaming license for
use of construction land, certificate for use of land, and license for demolition and
resettlement. " It is also necessary to hold an agreement signed by the relocatee on terms
of compensation and resettlement.
10.        Program of Demolition, Removal and Resettlement.  According to
engineering design, the Da Qiao Pump Station would require a permanent plot of land as
well as land to be leased for construction. For the conveyor only, the vent stacks and
junction wells require land acquisition; the remainder of the land would only be leased.
The land to be leased is 120 m wide for four-box conveyor, 95 m wide for two-box
conveyor; the land to be leased for Changqiao 3,500 mm diameter steel pipe branch line
is 70 m wide, and that for Longxi 2,200 mm dia steel pipe branch line is 35 m wide. All
installations within the range of the land to be acquired and leased are required to be
dismantled and moved.
11.        To inhabitants with their housing removed, the township or village
government would be entrusted to build house for them at a nearby site chosen within the
scope of their own village. The duration of house building is considered as four to six
months. Units would be given compensation or resettled at another plot of land to be
acquired. The labor force from land to be acquired would be substantially recruited as
workers of the Da Qiao Pumping Station or absorbed by local township enterprises.
Study to Minimize land Acquisition, Demolition and Resettlement
12.        An on-site survey has been carried out along the entire length of the
buildings located within the width of land to be leased. Buildings in the area but not
directly in the excavation zone would be preserved wherever possible by reducing width
of land to be leased at local spots together with the use of protective measures.
13.        For the Changqiao and Longxi branch pipelines that have sections partly
passing through densely populated area, it is recommended that pipe laying would be
replaced by pipe-thrust boring at a depth of 20 m underground; hence, considerable
demolition and resettlement can be avoided. Since the culvert construction line stretches
to 4-5 k:m in one construction contract, it is impractical to start construction simultaneously
along the entire length. It is recommended therefore that construction would be conducted
section by section and the application for land leasing would follow in step with different
construction period. Contractors would be requested to backfill and level the ground in



- 80 -                         ANNEX8
time at the construction site, so that the duration of land leasing may be reduced to a
minimum.
Investigation and Verification of Amount of Demolition and Resettlement
14.         Demolition and resettlement was carried out once in 1985 along the
conveyor length, but regulations were not enforced further due to financial restrictions and
postponement of the project. Now following the optimized and verified project scheme
jointly compiled by the Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design Institute and the British
Mott MacDonald Consulting Company, an investigation team of five from the Shanghai
Municipal Waterworks Company carried out a detailed survey for land acquisition,
demolition, removal, and resettlement for the present project from October 1992 to January
1993. This has received support from governments of county, township and village along
the entire pipeline and from the planning and related departments of Shanghai City.
Through the on-site investigation, the amount of demolition, removal, and resettlement has
been defined, and an estimate has been compiled for compensation and resettlement
expense in accordance with related regulations.
15.         Ihe Amount of Permanent Land to be Acquired.  The amount of
permanent land to be acquired is small relative to the amount of land to be used in the
whole project, mainly due to the comparatively large amount of land temporarily leased
for culvert construction. The culvert line is 30.2 km in full length (inclusive of Changqiao
and Longxi branches). It is divided into six contract packages. Different time-scales for
temporary land acquisition would be arranged according to the construction schedule and
in consideration of the combined economic and social effects. Farmland along the
conveyor line would be leased (generally no demolition or resettlement) as well as areas
for temporary installation during construction (see the Project File for location drawings).
16.         Amount of Land to be Acquired or Leased and Buildings Removed.
Quantities for the land acquisition, land leasing and resettlement as shown in Table 1.
(a)   Da Qiao Pumping Station. All the land to be acquired is farmland.
Thirteen houses have to be removed and the inhabitants resettled locally;
(b)   Main Conveyor: Da Qiao-Linjiang. A construction width of 120 m is
required, but would be locally reduced to avoid unnecessary demolition of
buildings. The permanent land to be acquired is all farmland; land leased
within the construction width is 80 percent farmland with the remainder
road, railway or river. Four separate areas (total 120,000 m2 of farmland)
would be leased for temporary installation. For access to the site existing
tractor roads would be utilized where possible but an allowance of one
access every 500 m x 150 m long x 8 m wide has been made. Two units
would be demolished; mainly boundary walls storage areas and a few
buildings.



- 81-                                ANNEX8
Table 1: SummARY OF LAN AND REErNENr REQUnREMEM
Do 01,..   ei.n   U racb  Ppel. to Pfpel   Cbay be lo.thnut
ce.yor conveyor C  qto  to 1ougP         " o borigs   Total
Pezaeaet lead to be aquired
(eu)                    46.S00   11.700  1.500  1.000      -    5.000      400     64.400
Lead to be looed for ee.atmc.
tim (VP)                   - 2, 54.000 279,000  151.100   ao,5o0   5.000   14.000   2,772.300
Lad to be leased for t_prery
ziaetettoa Cu)        39.640   120.000  13,000  24O000.j   4,400  -        -    201,540
Area to be leas" for easess to
emotruetie sites (ue)      -    51,000     -       -        -       -        -     53,000
to be deioUed
Imbr                       1}      11    40        4       17       -        -         7
Area (MP)               1.000    1,400   3,500    $00    2.500      _        _     10,200
LeA to be ecqired for
bmaee or site (u')         -        -  4,500               -        -        -     44.500
units to be donalishad
ummr                                I 1           14       4        -        -        2
Are (u)                    -    2,000  14.000   2,400    1,400      -        -     13,600
La IdClud  land to be leaed for acceu.
(c)    Brnch Conveyor to Cbangqiao and Longxi. The permanent land to be
acquired is all farmland. For leasing within the construction area, a 95 m
wide construction width has been allowed; the area is mainly farmland but
partly river and township grade roads.
(d)    Changqiao Branch Pipeline. The pemanent land acquisition is mainly
famland; for temporary leasing during construction mainly farmland but
includes part city road and part river. Land to be leased temporarily during
construction is all farmland.
(e)    Lonipd Branch Pipeline. The land leased for the 35 m construction width
is 60 percent farmland with the remainder ether river or township grade
roads. For temporary installations, all land to be leased is farmland. Units
to be demolished include four buildings and part of the boundary wall.
(f)    Changqiao Lift Pump Station.  All land to be acquired or leased is
farmland.
(g)    Changqiao/Longxl Thrust Bores.  All land to be acquired or leased is
farmiland.
Resettlement
17.           Resettlement Program  for Inhabitants.   Since there are not many
inhabitants and no concentration of residence to be moved along the entire pipeline, all
those individual households would be settled down nearby in their own village according
to regulations. If there are in the city or township new communal residential quarters
affording better living conditions to the existing residence, those households would be
demolished and may be allowed to move in those new quarters. inhabitants who build their
own house would obtain a building area equal to the existing plot as compensation, and
those to move into new quarters would be allocated 55 m2 (building area) per household
in general.



-82 -                         ANNEX 8
18.        Resettlement Program for Units. Since the ground layer on top of the
conveyor after completion can be restored only for farming, and not for building, units to
be demolished would generally move to other selected places nearby under the auspices of
the Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company. Some of these units would reduce their
use of land through internal rearrangement and obtain compensation as allowance for land
being acquired.
19.        Resettlement Program for Labor Force. The principle of labor force
resealement is that those who have land to be acquired would be recruited as workers at
the Da Qiao Pumping Station; some of them may enter local township enterprises for
placement on a voluntary basis.
20.         The land acquisition for Da Qiao Pumping station would make redundant 74
laborers; of this total 14 are over 45 year or want to work in local township enterprises.
According to the Shanghai Municipal Government Regulations this latter group would be
compensated at the rate of Y 35,000/person. The remaining 60 persons would be
employed on the oprating and maintenance staff of Da Qiao Pumping Station; the Water
Company would also arrange for the cultural education and technical training of this group
that would represent about two thirds of the total pumping station staff.
21.         Along the length of the culvert the only land required to be acquired is that
associaed with the air vent shafts-about 30 m3/shaft. The land to be acquired in each
township is of the order of 100 m2/township. Individual laborers would be compensated
according to the Shanghai Government Regulations.
Costs for Land Acquisition, Land Lease, Demolition, Removal and Resettlement
22.         All costs for land acquisition, land lease, demolition, removal and
resettlement would originate from the domestic counterpart fund of the subproject, totaling
Y 90.53 million.
23.         Principle and Criteria of Land Acquisition, Demolition, Removal
Compensation Expenses. According to related regulations, compensation through
evaluation would be given to inhabitants and units who have building being demolished;
the units would be given expenses for land acquisition, equipment moving, compensation
for loss due to stoppage of production (including compensation for personnel due to
suspension of work).
Compensation criteria and expenses (Yuan) of major items:
(a)   land Acquisition. The standard compensation rate would be in accordance
with Shanghai Municipal Government regulations. The compensation covers
direct and indirect economic loss caused by land acquisition and is slightly
higher than the income which would be derived from farming (Table 2);



- 83 -                         ANNEX 8
Table 2: LAI AcQuIsmoN BY CouNrY
Location                              Type            Area        Total
(y/m2)    (Y million)
Songjiang County               basic paddy field      105          5.15
Shanghai County                half paddy field       150          9.26
half vegetable
Total Land Acquisition
Cost                                                       14.42
(b) Land Lease. The total lease duration would be three years with two years
for construction (The project contractors are requested to lease land
according to schedule and to level the ground after completion of
construction in due time with backfill of original tillage soil) plus one year
as allowance for inadequacy in soil fertility;
Total land lease expense: Y 55.89 million as detailed in Attachment 1.
(c)   Relocation Costs for Inhabitants. Total costs as Attachment 1 is Y 8.65
million; and
(d)   Dismantling and Moving Expenses for Units. Due to dismantling of
warehouses, the Shanghai Glass Enclosure Factory, the Meilong and
Longxing Township Flavoring Factory would suffer loss from suspension
of production and would be given a compensation of Y 20,000 each,
amounting to a sum of Y 60,000. A further Y 10.06 million is required as
compensation to other units, as shown in Table 3.
24.         The expenses for land acquisition, land lease, demolition, removal and
resettlement make a grand total of Y 89.03 million, as detailed in Attachment 1. The
compensation for moving electric poles, trees, etc. amounts to Y 1.50 million, giving a
grand total of Y 90.53 million (see Attachments 2 and 3 for details).
Organization and Responsibility: Land Acquisition, Demolition, Removal and
Resettlement
25.         The land acquisition, demolition, removal and resettlement work is an
arduous and complicated task, requiring a strong political policy, widespread social
relations, and timely completion, which would directly affect the progress of the project
and livelihood of the people. Consequently, the Shanghai Municipal Government has paid
high attention, promulgated a series of policy regulations and established a city and county
two-level organizations, with accumulated abundant experience.



- 84 -                         ANNEX 8
Table 3: LIA    AcQuISmoN FOR INDUS-RAL UNITS
Item                              Area       Unit  Unit rate       Total
(Yuan)    (Y million)
Moving expenses for highway
maintenance squad room and
office building                         Lump sum       -          0.20
Moving axpense for cattle sheds,
etc.                                    Lump sum       -          0.10
Damage to concrete floor           3,000     m'         90          0.27
Damage for dismantling buildings
(storied house)                 5,000      m2        800         4.00
Basic buildinge, cattle sheds,
etc.                           21,400      ml        250          5.35
Boundary walls                       800     m         100          0.08
Total                                                         10.06
26.         The relocation of the water intake is a major environmental project to be
implemented by the Shanghai Municipal Government. In order to assure the successful
implementation of this item, the Municipal Govemment has set up an environment project
office as the organization for overall liaison and coordination. As the proprietor of the
PC1 loan, the Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company has set up a subproject office and
organization corresponding to the project construction office, with a working team of 11
personnel responsible for the earlier stage project dealing with acquisition and resettlement
issues. In Shanghai and Songjiang County, which are districts of major construction work,
a site office for the inital stages of the project has been set up together with the local
planning and land management deparanents. This would assist the Shanghai Municipal
Waterworks Company to jointly carry out the program.
27.         Responsibility of the resettlement project team of the Shanghai Municipal
Waterworks Company:
(a)   In areas of construction defined in the design to carry out on-the-spot
investigations and determine the amount of expenses for land acquisition,
land lease, demolition, removal and resettlement;
(b)   To confirm the expenses for compensation that would arise from domestic
circumstances;
(c)   To conduct land allocation license of project constuton, certificate for use
of land, license for housing demolition and removal;
(d)   To map out plan for demolition, removal, resetlement and action plan;



- 85 -                        ANNEX8
(e)   Being responsible for the disposition of surplus labor force from land
acquisition.
28.        Responsibility for the site office for initial stages of the stage work project
in Shanghai County and Songjiang County is as follows:
(a)   To provide working personnel of 20 for each organization;
(b)   To sign agreement with inhabitants and units to be removed, on
compensation and resettlement, under the supervision of the Shanghai
Municipal Waterworks Company;
(c) To draw up a report on compensation for various installations and
agricultural production that would be affected; and
(d)   To carry out the demolition, removal and resettlement plan.
Program
29.        Preparatory Work Stage.  From October 1992 to March 1993, the
Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company together with working personnel of Shanghai
County and Songjiang County has carried out on-the-spot investigation of the project and
expense estimate, and formulated plans for the initial stages of the project.
30.        According to plan of action, the Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company
would from May 1993 apply for land allocation license for construction planning,
certificate for use of land from the Shanghai Municipal Planning Administration Bureau,
the Shanghai Land Administration Bureau, and would accomplish in September 1993.
31.        Implementation Stage. The Da Qiao Pumping Station: From September
1993 to February 1994.
32.        The Conveyor:
(a)   Songjiang County section: From September 1993 to January 1994;
(b)   Shanghai County section: From November 1993 to April 1994.
33.         Changqiao and Longxi branch line, (including pipe-thrust boring): From
September 1993 to April 1994.
34.         Changqiao and Nanshi Booster Pumping Stations: From October 1993 to
March 1994.
PC2-UIm HUANGPU CATCMENT POLLUrnON CONMMOL



- 86 -                        ANNEX 8
35.        The construction of the WujingJMinhang Trunk Wastewater System would
require only limited land acquisition and no resettlement, as most of the work would be
undertaken underground as a tunnel, using current microtunneling techniques mainly under
public roadways.
PC3-SONGJLANG WASnEWAM POLLUTION CONTMOL
36.        The Songiang wastewater treatment plant extension would require the
acquisition of approximately 10.2 hectres of land. No residences and only one farm
bulding are located on the main 10 hectare parcel of farmland, so losses there would be
entirely of crop output. A second parcel contains a vehicle workshop, which would be
relocated. Songjiang county expects to absorb 20 percent (approximately 25 people) of the
displacd farmers in their operations, while the remaining 80 percent (or 112 people)
would be reemployed through the Songiang county labor bureau. Songjiang county has
developed a resettlement plan acceptable to the Bank.



- 87-                                    ANNEX 8
ATTACHMENT 1
BUDGETARY ESTIMATE FOR LAND COMPENSATION
Total prica
Item/Category                                Unit price (Y)           Amount           (Y m11ion)
Land Acauisition Costs
Songjiang County:  paddy field                       105/m2          49,143 m2        5.16
Shanghai County: paddy field,
vegatable fam, 501 each                           150/32           61,733 D2        9.26
Subtotal                                                                          14.42
Land leaae Casts at 2 years' duration
plus 1 year for soll inadequate of
fertility
Paddy field                                        20.2/32          1.8921 Mm.2      38.22042
Vegetable farm                                    29.97/3          0.32297 Mm2        9.67941
Orchard                                               go/r2        0.02133 lb2         1.9197
Rest (voodLand fishpond)                             7 5/*2        0.81046 IM2        6.07815
Subtotal                                                                          55.8993
Compensation for Residence Removal
Reward expense for removal                   500/household      87 households         0.0435
Resettling building expense (axclu-
sive lend acquisition expense)                    652/32          0.0102 lb'        6.6504
Compensation for dismantling                         1
(average)                                         19295 040102 Ifi2                 1.9584
Subtotal                                                                           8.6523
ComPenastion for Unit Demolition and
Removal
Stories house (exclusive of lend
acquisition expense)                              800/mi            5,000 *2        4.00
Cattle shed, etc. (exclusive of
Lend acquisition expense)                         250/m2          0.0214 lmb        5.35
Concrete floor                                        go/32           3,000 *2         0.27
Inclosing wall                                       100/32              800 m2        0.08
Moving cattle sheds                                                                    0.10
ovinlg office bldg., squad room                                                        0.20
Damage, suspension of production                                                       0.06
Subtotal                                                                          10.06
Other Compensation Costs
Sidevalk trees                                    360/tree
Zlectric poles                                5,000/people                             1.50
Green belt                                            45/m2
Total                                                                             90.53






- 88 -                           ANNE  8
ATTACIMENT 2
STATUS OF RESIDENCE DEMOLITION AND REMOVAL
No. of households   Area of residence
Region                       to be moved       to be removed (m2)  Population
Songiiang County
Chedun Township                    13                  1,000              61
Shanghai County
Zhuangqiao Township
Jinjiazhai                          7                  1,750              39
Shanghai County
Caohang Township
Gujiatang                           4                    650              18
Shanghai County
Caohang Township
Xiaosunjiazhai                      3                    180              15
Shanghai County
Meilong Township
Zhujiatang                         23                  2,380              78
Shanghai County
Heilong Township
Jiting Brigade                     20                  1,740              79
Shanghai County
Heilong Township
Changmucun No. 2 Teem              10                  1,980              36
Shanghai County
Meilong Township
Changmucun No. 1 Team               7                    520              24
Total                        87                  10.200            350






- 89 -                           ANNEX 8
ATTACEIMENT 3
STATUS OF DEMOLIIION AND REMOVAL OF UNITS
RexionlCatexory
Main Channel
Enclosing wall                                 2 places                500 m
Storage ground                                 2 places              3,000 M2
Chanmaiao, Lonaxi Branch Channel
War-house (one-story)                          2 houses               1,600 m2
Office building (three-story)                  1 building            2,400 a'
Cattle shed                                    3 sheda                  360 M2
Watch house (fishpond)                         2 houses                  40 mf
Paved ground                                                         7,650 32
Enclosing vall                                                          450 m
Chanaaiao Waterworks Branch Pipeline
Warehouse (one-story)                          7 houses               1,700 m2
Cattle shed                                    4 sheds                  320 M2
Shop building (one-story)                      3 buildings             600 m3
Lonezi Waterworks Branch Pipeline
Enclosing vall                                                           50 m
Cattle shed                                    1 shed                    80 ml
Guard house (composite)                        1 house                  100 M2
Warehouse (composite)                          1 house                  300 32
Paved ground                                                            900 M2






-90- 90-
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 1/
Introduction
1.          Shanghai is located in the Changjiang delta plain and is the largest and most
heavily industrialized urban agglomeration in China. At present, 98 percent of the
Shanghai water supply (some 4.7 Mm3 in 1990) is obtained from the middle and lower
reaches of the Huangpu River, with 89 percent being abstracted at intakes at or close to
Linjiang. The lower reaches of the Huangpu have become increasingly polluted by
discharges of domestic and industrial wastewater, and the Linjiang abstraction (capacity
2.7 Mm3/d) was completed in 1987 as the first phase of the Shanghai Municipal
Waterworks Company (SMWC) program to improve the reliability of drinking water
quality by relocating the major abstraction point to Da Qiao, some 30 kam upstream and
further away from the major sources of pollution of the river.
2.          Water demand projections indicate a requirement of some 6.6 Mm3/d by the
year 2000. This level of demand is equivalent to about 20 percent of the average flow
(about 315 m'/s) of the Huangpu and of similar order to the 90 percentile low flow.
Abstraction of such a major proportion of the river flow affects water movement in the
river and results in upward movement of poorer quality from the lower reaches of the
river. The situation is exacerbated by the tidal effects caused by the large flow of the
Changjiang (average flow of the order of 30 000 m31s some 100 times that of the Huangpu.
The effect is particularly acute under extreme low flow conditions in the Huangpu, when
there may be net upstream flow at Linjiang for periods of several days. As a result, water
quality at Linjiang is regarded as unsatisfactory and unreliable, in respect of increasing
treatment costs and danger to the public in terms of consumption of water containing
chemicals causing taste and potential health problems.
3.          In order to address these concerns, the water-related components of the
project are focused on improvement of water quality in the Huangpu considering the
following principal issues:
(a)   enhancement and protection of the quality and reliability of the water supply
for Shanghai;
(b)   reducing treatment and distribution costs;
1/  TMe Environental Aammat Report pepard by the Shanghai Mumcipal Govenmmt u m the
Project File. This Annex represets a Project-wide mummay.



- 91-                         ANNEX 9
(c)   ensuring an adequate supply through at least the year 2000.
4.         Technical support and training would be provided to SWC and to other
environment sector agencies in Shanghai including the Shanghai Environment Protection
Bureau (SEPB), Shanghai Research Institute for Environmental Protection (SRIEP) and the
Shanghai Environmental Monitoring Center (SEMC) in terms of environmental planning,
management and monitoring. In particular, comprehensive water quality monitoring
facilities, including a new laboratory, are being provided to assist SEMC in water quality
monitoring and planning for the upper Huangpu basin.
Administrative and Institutional Framework
5.         The State Environmental Protection Committee is the highest level of
authority on environmental policy and includes the State Council and heads of all relevant
ministries and agencies. The national Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) functions
as the secretariat of SEPC and is responsible for all aspects of environmental policy
although shares authority with other agencies for certain natural resources. NEPA sets
overall policies and regulations goveming the provincial and municipal environmental
protection bureaus (EPBs) and implementation of environmental policy is through the
municipal and provincial EPBs.
Project Description
6.         The proposed project components comprise:
(a)   Huangpu River Water Quality Protection-relocation of the water supply
intake from Linjiang to Da Qiao and construction of pumping stations,
multiple-barrel low pressure supply main, improvements to existing water
treatment and distribution systems;
(b)   Upper Huangpu  Catchment Pollution  Control-pollution  control
investments in the upper Huangpu catchment including sewerage for
Minhang and Wujing to divert wastewater flows into the Shanghai sewerge
system for ultimate treatment/discharge to the Changiiang, supported by
promotion of wastewater treatment/in-plant process improvements at key
industries in the catchment;
(c)   SongJiang Wastewater Pollution Control-provision of domestic and
industrial wastewater collection and treatment facilities for Songjiang county
(including one treatment plant);
(d)   Pollution Sources and Water Quality Monitoring-provision of a new
water quality monitoring laboratory at the new supply intake together with
extensive analytical and associated equipment to develop effective water
quality monitoring for the upper Huangpu basi;



- 92 -                        ANNEX 9
(e)   Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management-investigations into appropriate
solid and hazardous waste and nightsoil management strategies to be
supported by suitable investments for system improvements; and
(f)   Technical Assistance and Training Components-including project
management, financial management, geographic information systems, river
basin water quality management, planning and monitoring.
7.         Of these components only (a), (b) and (c) involve physical works in the
immediate term and are therefore covered by the EA studies. Physical works will be
involved in (e) in due course. The EA for this component is therefore only qualitative at
this stage; a more comprehensive quantitative EA will be prepared for the proposed works
when identified in detail.
Baseline Data
8.         Shanghai is China's largest and most heavily industrialized conurbation,
producing about 11 percent of national industrial output. Shanghai Municipality, located
in the Changjiang delta plain, occupies an area of 6 200 kin2, of which 300 Ikm2 are
classified as urban. The Shanghai Municipality area (population 7.5 million in the 12
districts in Shanghai City and a further 6 milion in the adjacent five counties) is bordered
to the north by Jiangsu Province and to the east by Zhejiang Province.
9.         Shanghai lies in a convergence zone of cold, dry and warm, humid air
masses. Rainfall patterns are influenced both by monsoons and temperate cyclones. There
are well-defined seasons with average monthly temperatures ranging from 3.4C in January
to 27.2C in August. Annual average rainfall is 1,148 mm with a pronounced rainy
season from June to September. The prevailing wind is northwesterly in winter and
southeasterly in summer.
10.        The river Huangpu flows through the Shanghai municipal area, flowing into
the Changjiang at Wusongkou some 18 km to the north of the city. Flows in the Huangpu
are measured at the gauging station at Mishidu, close to Da Qiao. The average flow at
Mishidu is approximately 315 m3/s, but the river is tidal and this figure therefore
represents the net downward flow. Maximum rates of flow on the flood and ebb tides can
reach 10,000 and 6,000 m3/s, respectively. Under extreme conditions of low natural flow
in the Huangpu and peak tidal influence from the Changjiang, of which the flow can
exceed 100 times that of the Huangpu, there can be net upwards flows at Mishidu for
periods of up to several days.
11.        The main sources of the Huangpu, which all rise outside the Shanghai
Municipality area, are as follows (percentage contributions to the flow in parentheses);
ianlugang River (outlet from Dianshan Lake)            (50.3%)
Taipu River (outlet from Taihu Lake)                   (42.9%)
Damaogang River/Yuanxiejing River                      (6.8%)



- 93 -                         ANNEX 9
All sources are generally of good quality, although the Damaogang has significant
concentrations of ammonia, believed to be as a result of agricultural pollution.
12.         Water quality in the Huangpu declines as it traverses the Shanghai
Municipality area as a result of discharges of domestic and industrial wastewater and runoff
from agricultural areas. The estimated total discharges of BOD and ammonia to the
Huangpu are 280,000 tons/year and 91,000 tons/year, respectively, of which 62,000
tons/year and 28,000 tons/year, respectively, are to the upper catchment.
13.         Water quality problems are exacerbated by the pattern of water movement
in the Huangpu which is dominated by the tidal influence of the Changjiang. Under
conditions of low natural flow in the Huangpu, this tidal influence causes extensive
upstream movement of pollution from the lower reaches of the river.
14.         A water quality protection zone has been created by the Shanghai
Municipality in the upper Huangpu catchment extending a distance of 5 km from either
bank of the river upstream of the city as far as the Municipality boundary, which crosses
Dianshan lake. The objective of creating the zone was to control the discharge of
wastewater mto the river; the zone boundary was based on administrative boundaries rather
than the whole catchment and its effectiveness is therefore limited.
15.         There are nevertheless significant discharges of pollution to the upper
Huangpu as referred to above. This pollution originates from a number of sources
including domestic and industrial wastewater, livestock-rearing activities and runoff from
agricultural land. Thus, in order to sustain water quality at Da Qiao, it is necessary to
have an effective integrated basin management program for the upper Huangpu as a whole.
Water Qualty Standards
16.         Two categories of national water quality standard are appropnate in respect
of water quality in the Huangpu reflecting its status as a source of potable water for
Shanghai, the Environmental Quality Standard for Surface Waters (GB 3838-88) and the
Sanitary Standard for Drinking Water (GB 5749-85). In addition, there is a Shanghai
Municipality Environmental Quality Standard for Surface Water covering six water quality
classes. The National Standard GB 3838-88 defines water quality standards applicable to
five different classes of surface water and water to be abstracted for potable supply should
meet at least the Class Ell standard.
17.         The longer-term water quality objectives proposed for the Huangpu are as
follows:
(a)   Upstream of Mishidu                 -     Class II
(b)   Mishidu to boundary of Shanghai City    -  Class m
(c)   Shanghai City downstream            -       Class IV



- 94 -                         AN          2
18.         Water at the Linjiang and more downstream intakes fails to comply with the
Class m standard for a number of important parameters. At Da Qiao, water generally
complies with the Class m standard.
19.        In terms of parameters with specific impact on potable water quality the
concentrations of phenols and ammonia at Linjiang and downstream are cause for concern
because of frequent taste problems of water in supply. Concentrations of phenol at
Linjiang repeatedly exceed Chinese standards for drinking water, largely as a result of
discharges of industrial wastewater to the Huangpu upstream of Linjiang. In particular,
an upset in 1989 at the coke works at Wujing, some 10 km upstream of Linjiang, caused
phenol concentrations to exceed the drinking water standard by factors of 10 or more.
Levels of ammonia, indicative of pollution from a number of sources (domestic and
industrial wastewater; agricultural runoff) are also high and necessitate the use of high
doses of chlorine in disinfection of water for potable supply.
20.         Since the major source of phenol in the Huangpu is industrial wastewater,
concern has been expressed that there may be other industry-derived chemicals in the raw
water at Linjiang that could give rise to taste problems in themselves or as a result of
reactions with the high levels of chlorine used in disinfection. Surveys carried in 1992
indicated the presence of concentrations exceeding WHO standards of chemicals of concern
on health grounds (carbon tetrachloride, 1,2 dichloropropane, 1,2 dichloroethane and
chloroform) under extreme low flow conditions in the Huangpu and on grounds of potential
taste problems even at average flows.
21.         Concenations of phenol at Da Qiao are consistently within the Chinese
drinking water standard requirements, and ammonia concentrations are typically lower than
those at Linjiang by factors of 2 to 3. Under normal flow conditions concentrations of
chemicals with potential to cause health and taste problems are not cause for concern.
Effects of Talhu Basin Project
22.         The implementation of the multipurpose Taihu Basin project, also supported
by the World Bank, will include the construction of the Taipu Pumping Station to augment
flows in the upper Huangpu by means of discharges from the lake to the river Taipu, one
of the sources of the Huangpu. Discharges of up to 300 m3/s to the Taipu will be possible,
but part will be abstracted for use in agriculture in Zhejiang province and there will be
further losses into the network of waterways adjacent to the Taipu and upper Huangpu.
23.         It is estimated that at the 90 percentile low flow (monthly average) condition
in the Huangpu of 80 n3ls, the effect of the discharge of 300 m3/s would be to increase
flows by only 90 m3/s. Nevertheless, there would be a substantial beneficial effect of this
enhanced flow, particularly in the upper reaches of the Huangpu. The potential effect of
the Taihu discharge at the 90 percentile low natural flow is shown below for waxer quality
at Linjiang and Da Qiao, from which it will be seen that it is possible to sustain acceptable
water quality at Da Qiao but not at Linjiang (shown in Figure 1).



-95-                           ANINEX 9
Peak Ammonia-N Concentrations (mg/ )
90S low flow + Taihu
Location                90S low flow /a              discharge (300 m3/mec)
Linjiang                      5.6                             4.0
Da Qiao                        1.91                           1.0
La  Nmety percentile monthly average flow. Daily flows within the month could be
considerably lower, at times even net upstream flows.
Lk  For comparison, this concentration is approximately the average concentration at
Linjiang.
Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management
24.         Approximately 12,000 tons per day of domestic, commercial, industrial and
construction/demolition wastes are produced in Shanghai. Most construction/demolition
waste is probably reused and most domestic and commercial wastes is collected, but there
is little control over industrial and hazardous wastes. Shanghai is served by three major
landfills, the largest of which is Laogang, some 70 k:m from Shanghai on the banks of the
Changiiang. Transport of refuse to the site is by river/canal.
25.         A total of some 6,300 tons per day of nightsoil (contents of bucket latines,
public toilets and septic tanks) are collected in Shanghai and transported to transfer stations
(docks) where it is loaded onto barges. These haul the nightsoil by river to storage tank
facilities in adjacent counties, from which it is sold to farmers as a soil conditioner or
ferdlizer. There is a declining demand for agricultural use of nightsoil, and it has been
estimated that substantial quantities of nightsoil may be discharged to the Huangpu. There
is also evidence that nightsoil is being used without the necessary storage, with the
associated health risks.  In addition to the environmental problems, the nightsoil
management system is very costly.
Consideration of Alternatives
26.         Alternatives to the relocation of the intake from Linjiang to Da Qiao to
achieve at least the same degree of improvement in water quality have been investigated.
The schemes evaluated were as follows:
(a)   Advanced water treatmept at Linjiang;
(b)   Abstraction from the Changjiang;



- 96 -                       ANNEX 9
Fgure 1: HuANGPU RIvER WATER QuALmrr MODELING ANALYSIS
Risk of Pollution Reaching Intake Sites Under Three Flow Conditions



- 97 -                         ANNE 9
(c)   Enhanced water pollution control in upper Huangpu by means of
construction of sewerage systems and wastewater treatment.
27.         These alternatives were rejected in favor of the chosen scheme primarily for
reasons of greater cost and respectively of:
(a)   excessive land take in urban areas to extend existing water treatment sites
and inability to sustain drinking water quality at times of gross pollution
incidents;
(b)   excessive environmental impact of reservoir (necessary because of excessive
chloride concentrations in the Changjiang under certain flow/tidal
conditions) and construction of long (in excess of 40 kmn) water conveyors
through urban areas; and
(c)   excessive time period required for construction of facilities required to be
effective.
28.         The program of wastewater treatment at Songjiang and of on-site wastewater
treatment at key industries and sewerage of the Wujing and Minhang areas was selected
on the basis of the particular significance of Songjiang and the Wujing and Minhang areas
in terms of pollution loads in the catchment, cost effectiveness and potential speed and
effectiveness of implementation. Alternatives to Wujing/Mfinhang sewerage included more
widespread and more extensive industrial wastewater treatment and a sewerage scheme
based on treatment and discharge to Hangzhou Bay. The former would involve a very
substantial number of individual treatment plants and would not provide treatment of
domestic wastewater in the areas nor effectively solve the potential problem of spfllages
at industrial sites close to the intake. Discharge to Hangzhou Bay could be problematic
in environmental terms.
Impacts and Mitigation
29.         The project as a whole is highly positive in environmental terms and the
negative impacts are greatly outweighed by the benefits. Nevertheless, impacts have been
identified in the EA process for all components that require detailed analysis and mitigation
measures. The principal impacts are described below for each project component.
Huangpu River Water Quality Protection
30.         The relocation of the water supply intake, coupled with the beneficial effects
of the water transfers to the Huangpu from Taihu will give a substantial improvement in
the quality of water supplied to Shanghai. There are, however, a number of impacts
associated with the construction and operation of the facilities involved which require
detailed assessment and in some cases mitigation. The principal impacts are discussed
below, and all significant impacts are listed in Table 1, together with the associated
mitigation measures.



-98 -                          ANEX 9
Intake Relocation Effects on Water Movement
31.         Relocation of the intake, coupled with the increased abstraction, will affect
the flow pattern and water quality at and downstream of Da Qiao. The quantity abstracted
is about 75 percent of the 90 percentile low river flow and increases the backflushing of
pollution discharged downstream. The effect of the relocation and abstraction has been
investigated by mathematical modeling of ammonia concentrations. Abstraction at Da Qiao
is predicted to increase ammonia concentrations at Da Qiao by about 20 percent under both
normal and low river flow conditions, but the resulting water quality is still considerably
superior to that at Linjiang under the same conditions.
32.         The increase at low flows is more than offset by the diluting effect of the
discharge of water into the upper Huangpu from Taihu, as shown below.
Ammonia Concentration (mIl1) at Da Oiao
Flow Condition                   Intake at Linjiang      Intake at Da Qiao
Average                                  0.61                   0.72
90  percentile low flaw                 0.93                    1.13
90 percentile low flow with              n/a                    0.86
300 m;3/ from Taihu
Spoil Disposal
33.         Excavation for the construction of the conveyor from Da Qiao to Linjiang
will generate about 1 Mm3 of spoil for disposal. A spoil disposal plan will be prepared
and its impact assessed. A spoil disposal plan has been prepared based on beneficial use
of spoil, wherever possible, in construction, for landscaping and development of public
open space areas, and for land-raising in low-lying areas at risk of flood damage. Landfill
would be only a last-resort option and is not expected to be necessary.
Enforced Land Use Changes
34.         The construction of the conveyor corridor will involve the enforced
temporary change in land use of an area of 295 ha, with a permanent land take of 6.2 ha
and demolition of 87 residences. A program for restoration of the land to beneficial use
is being prepared. During the excavation process, topsoil will be stored on-site for use in
restoration of the land for agriculture.



-99 -                                 9
Impacts on Transportation
35.        The route of the conveyor crosses 8 highways, 63 minor roads and 60 rivers
and canals. Construction of the conveyor will involve closure for periods of some months,
and diversions will be provided to maintain access to agricultural land and property
throughout.
Aquatic and Terrestrial Environment
36.        Tunneling and pipe-jacking will be used in the construction of the conveyor
across major rivers and bunding and draining in the case of smaller rivers and canals.
Where there will be disruptions to flows in a river or canal being bunded that is of
importance as a drainage channel or irrigation source, water flow will be maintained by
diversion or overpumping. Land crossed by the conveyor is intensively farmed and there
are no natural or even seminatural habitats.  Ecological impact of the conveyor
construction will be slight.
Cultur  and Historical Sites
37.         No known cultural or historical site in the upper Huangpu catchment will
be crossed by the route of the conveyor or the related works proposed in the project.
However, in the event that during excavation archeological remains are discovered, it is
proposed to halt work temporarily while appropriate specialists assess the significance of
the findings.
Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution Control
38.        The Huangpu River will remain the primary water resource serving the
Shanghai Municipality area and it is of the utmost importance that water quality in the
upper Huangpu catchment be afforded the required degree of protection. This component
is therefore based on the control of the key point-source pollution discharges in terms of
their significance in relation to water quality at Da Qiao. The proposals compnse the
provision of wastewater treatment facilities for Songjiang County, and a program of
industrial wastewater collection and treatment dealing with the most significant discharges
located mainly in Wujing and Minhang, between Da Qiao and Linjiang.
39.        The proposals for Songjiang will provide treatment for industrial wastewaters
currently discharged untreated and will result in a substantial reduction in the volumes of
nightsoil generated. The treated wastewater from Songjiang will contribute only
approximately an additional 0.02 mg/l (less than 5 percent) of ammonia to the Huangpu
River at average flow. The treatment proposals involve the extension of an existing
treatment plant and therefore the minimum impact in terms of land take and disruption.
Sludge from the extended treatment plant will be disposed of by agricultural use as a
ferdlizer/soil conditioner.



-100 -                         ANNEX 9
40.         The provision of industrial wastewater collection and treatment facilities will
naturally have a positive environmental impact in terms of water quality at the future Da
Qiao intake. In addition the construction of the Minhang/Wujing area trunk sewer in
tunnel will result in minimal land take, building demolition and disturbance during
construction. However, diversion of the wastewater into the Shanghai sewerage system
will increase wastewater flows for discharge to the Changjiang estuary by about
10 percent. The impact of this additional flow at the disposal location and the associated
treatment requirements, if any, will require detailed evaluation.
41.         The impacts and their associated mitigation measures are listed in Tables 2
and 3.
Solid Waste and Nightsoll Management
42.         The focus of the proposals is to improve the service both in environmental
terms and in respect of operational efficiency. The Laogang landfill site will be upgraded
with the provision of leachate treatment and an existing landfill located on the bank of the
Huangpu near Linjiang will be converted to provide a major refuse transfer station facility.
There will also be associated improvements to the other refuse transfer stations and
primary collection facilities, with the objective of improving sanitary and aesthetic
conditions, and to maintenance workshops. A Hazardous Waste Management Strategy and
Master Plan is also under preparation with the objective of progressive control of the
collection, transport and disposal of hazardous wastes.
43.         The focus of the nightsoil management proposals is based upon the enhanced
use of sewerage capacity by a program of connections of existing septic tasks along the
alignments of existing sewers. This will have the effect of reducing nightsoil arisings by
up to 30 percent. The remaining systems will be upgraded to improve environmental
conditions by a program of upgrading of storage facilities, transfer docks, sludge emptying
vehicles and sludge dewatering plants.
44.         The environmental benefits of the solid waste and nightsoil management
proposals include improvements in water quality in the upper Huangpu system as a result
of diversion of nightsoil to sewer systems; aesthetic and air quality improvements resulting
from improved handling of both solid waste and nightsoil, in particular prevention of
spillages into the Huangpu; and health benefits from improved nightsoil management.
Improved standards of operation at the Laogang landfill site, including landfill gas
extraction, will result in a substantial reduction in the emissions of methane (an important
greenhouse gas); it is expected that use of the landfill gas to generate electricity (potential
long-term yield in the order of tens of megawatts) will prove economic and contribute
significantly to local electricity supplies.



- 101 -                                              ANNEX 9
Table 1: HUANGPU RvER WATR QUALTY PRoTEc1oN-
SJMMARY OF ENVIRoNMENrAL IPAC  AN MInGAnON MEASURES
It_                  potential ngative iwect             litigatin  _namre                              nd iitoring
Rosidh ee            loesttlmut of    Ie fr_ convyer            Reeettieut Schedul  rrm  u. uO
route (87 bkum.. invlved)                 ChiMe. regulati_s for resettlamnt             cteTwabiip
require                                    M.Go,,rot
(a) e*enaetie
(b)    e      o ef equivalet or  etter
wr_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~q
Induetri   e 1       S_eric  oeft 1trie wll 1                                         vt av  to *_e ep      mm
camors*al                                                       protedctie
preneee
Agrianlteral LOW    Taerary iees of no.                         Lead Acquisition Schedule drawn up          SMDO/.
Chimes. regulatione provid, for             MC/Towfship
cemgp*uAtLan                               Owovrneemt
Loee of sell fertility                    Topseoi fr_ whole wor"  width to be    MC
staged seperately
Sit, to be cleared bwfoe  resteratie       mm
Loss of irriSetim  water                 TSerary vaterenreas to be 
emetrutedl
Water p_*. my be used if necessary         am
Lose of ac                                t_erary acee  to be *_truated                 Elnwhip
Goverment
River. and een"      Pledin                                      irmiem  ofr _orpmpin  of key               am
drainag watereonreo
Lobes and p1nd       Log                                        Reestabliebeet nearb  if detred by          MC/Temabp
Dwterift               oemetic wells d_atred                    Potable water to be prove  by               MC
treamtnt or ta*korig when, requird
Piuatem  ad river. and easale             Water not to be diecargod Sae                  iTo..fehip
fiaherieo  watercoursees                   tlrent
bode                 TMoreIy alesore                            Diversion  to b  provided                     elOCCesty
Traffic Deparne
Trake               T*_rary *leeure                             Alterntive *cceme provided whre              Sr/Timahip
neeassary                                  Gowe,ieu
Ualmys               Dieturibeae                                 i  jacking to be    dSC
Rivere end cana"     Teoperay eloenre,                          Accsee via etber reatee
Varnnl-g wig= to be  provided (lt at        _IC
night)
iffu -water          Pollatem  drawn upetrom                    P_   3_0 w?Ie of water free  lka    n           isoc
= ,.-Y                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~during 902 low flow oveema
Voedl.d              Lose                                       Replant trees withi workinr  wdth,            C
esept ever aemugyor
Azchaoo               Disturbne of undiscovered mitae           Contructi  wor t be blited if a             mm
diecoery to ned
Kceleg                 iseturbena. of rivers s   eanle          Rivers eNd *anl vi  be fully                suC
restored
water pollutieo                            Water nay Mt b  dircharged Snte            aRCITwa/Sip
sanls ned for fiehre                       Seoveret
Pollutio  reduction neamaree in ether
*_eoente af to
Miliary               T  _rary re_eal of neo                    Woring width to be retrieted is
eIhrmicatie                                                     order to owoi renea tl
Ilto
Dndargremd           Severence                                  Comiclaticne authority to be                 S
cables                                                          eomeulted beore aeaaation
S.ciee~omm           Parnenent le   ofd agritural land          lamnre to be offered jobs at pimpi           SC
etatim
D*lecatio  of mleya   required at         am wll prvie" traneport daly                aC
ba Qie. pumping station
Larp SMStrwctiole f ODeror                Centractor to provide M-alte                _C
accumedatiem
USC to provide mrvis.                      am
spoil diopeal          "lup   naterl to be dispoed               aterial to be used beneficially i          BC
eantructi, iendeaping or land-
ratlnge
Not"e                DietuzAnce during construction             Cintruction not aSaeda   iamht
within R000 of reei tilproperty



- 102 -                                             AX 9
Table 2: SONGJiANG CoUNrY WASThWATER PROPOSALS-
SummARY OF ENVIRoNMENrAL IMPACS AN PROPOsED MAIGATKoN MEASURES
It_               Potential Nesative Impct         Mitigating Measures               tatie             Monltorin
Zefluet diacharge       Ri4agctlo  in  ater quanty        Dincharge to 3aafpu which  a       -k-
euLffILciant a.. Lltive
capcity
lesidenos               S@ettla    t of  "lo fr_          No davoliti.n rerird               -
site
AgricAlture  slad       Pernmnt  aquicitie  of  *.3       Lend Acqulaitie  SobsAil           UUTv
ha                                drina up
CilWO* regulAtion  PrWids         OWJIvTOWn.b        XM
for copeneWstion                  p overnment
STees                   Lee.                              Replat esql or larger usmber  01W                    SM
of tre.
Odor          U          ffect - reeiemcee                Sludge to be digested              WA1V             IM
Deig  and Oeratio  to he          51nr              Sm
eptinised
Unise                  fDiaturbase                        Contructios oly snowed             Cotractor        5111
Asring day
Operetional machiry to be         sV                Sm
sen"tatan  la machiss 
Traffu                  Cetwwtim Vehicles                 Seed, hoSe  uffictit Apacity 
*ludge diSpe.a                    Tr        boprt y barp  "sw     as
reed
Imerepe                  iagptim of traffic               County Trafic Department to        S1111            Sm
bea esneuted
dima. impect            hpeeras  of                       Laniscoi2i  with trees en          SWW@              m
other p ats
Sludg  dispseal         Esey _etal. _ farmlan             Moitor copesiti   Nd Mao of   MAT                   S0Jita VI
eludge in eccordance With Q
Pathogens m crops                 Digest sludge enedontrol the    s5111               Smej i-a  DI
thog   reP              cre~974pe to which It iacapplied
by guidace to farmers
Industrisl effluets    Ucedmee oSf di charge              Moitor end eforce staard           WA V
diCharged to works      stanard.



- 103 -                                            ANNEX 9
Table 3: WUJING/MINHANG SEiWAGE-SuMMARY OF ENVIRONmeTAL IMPACTS
AN PROPOSED MTGATION MEASUES
Itm               Potetil Negative IW&ct         Kitlating g  eamr.u                I t-ti.          Ieiteriy
Tmll.g Spel            pIell dip.eal                      Breficial use In ceatructin    so=  (for           m
(.EU  qaatitiLe  involved)        IC)
*_mrage                 Traffic diesrtia.         Mt IAa41 if my. ir ct *elm               581CC (for       EDo
eomatrltia  met". dsimolitina       ly *exectiem  to tu_al         OKC).
iolvd                             C_utr;cter
Dineharge of            Imoread polItim load to           Cb.wia,ha c    astential          5SP1C (for       8DB
wetevat_ r to           Cbeagi tan                                 Ia eapd ciqt?           SWC). sn
Uba.ghai eiuneree                                         treatment Poe lbel
sis e _ry                                                _eccs ry
Ia&astril e ffl_er    Diceblrg. of tgice                  Pretrestmet provided at key       gm               3DB
dieharged to *ve.re                                      industri.s monitor end
out rce standard.









SQ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
-g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                                            



I



- 105 -                        ANNEX 1-1
ENVIRONSMENT IMPROVEMENT
MONITORING INDICATORS
1.          These environmental improvement monitors are based on the objectives of
the Shanghai Environment Project in respect of the implementation of the components for
Huangpu River Water Quality Protection, Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution Control and
Municipal Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management. They assume the completion of the
Taihu Basin project, also supported by the Bank, in particular the facility to discharge
flows of up to 300 m3/s from Taihu to the Taipu River and thence to the Huangpu River,
together with the completion of implementation of the ongoing Shanghai Sewerage Project
(Credit 1779-CHA) supported by PC2 (the northern sewer system through Minhang and
Minhang) to permit diversion of wastewater discharges from the Upper Huangpu
Catchment.
ComZoent                                   EnvironmentalImproement
Huangpu River                          1. Water abstracted for potable supply to
Water Quality Protection               meet Class El[ standards for all normal
flow conditions and Class II for critical
water supply parameters (eg phenol).
Due Dates:
90% of time              January 1998
95% of time      January 1999 onwards
100% of time     January 2000 onwards
2. Chemicals causing taste and health
problems absent from water abstracted
except under exceptional flow conditions.
Due Dates:
90% of time               January 1999
100% of time     January 2000 onwards
3. Water quality in SMWC supply to
comply with Chinese Drinldng Water
Standards.
Due Dates:
90% of time               January 1999
100% of time     January 2000 onwards



-O 10-                       ANNEX Ill
4. Concentration (median and 90
percentile) of ammonia in water abstracted
for supply to reduce by 50%.
Due Dates:
90% of time              January 1998
95% of time      January 1999 onwards
100% of time     January 2005 onwards
Upper Huangpu Catchment               5. Pollution control at key point sources
Pollution Control                     in upper catchment.
Due Dater:
90% interceptions        January 1998
95% interceptions January 1999 onwards
100% interceptions January 2005 onwards
6. Average concentration of ammonia at
Da Qiao reduced by up to one-third.
Due Dates:
90% of time              January 1998
95% of time      January 1999 onwards
100% of time     January 2000 onwards
7. Industry derived organic chemicals
such as chlorinated hydrocarbons removed
from water abstracted for supply.
Due Dates:
90% of time              January 1999
100% of time     January 2000 onwards



-107-                         ANNX 
Municipal Solid Waste and Nightsoil   8. Efficient and hygienic collection and
Management                            transport and sanitary landfill introduced
for all city's refuse.
Due Dates:
90% of time              January 1998
95% of time      January 1999 onwards
100% of time     January 2000 onwards
9. Landfill gas collected from major
landfill sites.
Due Dates:
50% of sites             January 1998
80% of sites     January 1999 onwards
100% of sites    January 2000 onwards
10. 40% reduction in overall nightsoil
quantities and 80% reduction in quantities
collected for use in agriculture.
Due Dates:
50% achievement          January 1998
75% achievement  January 1999 onwards
100% achievement January 2004 onwards






ORGANIZATION OF SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT
showing in detail the Shanghai Municipal Construction Commission
Institutional
Rc nsibililes
Coale-setting,
policy formulation, [. *                               Shanghai Municipal Covernment (8OM)
regulation
Multisectoral,                      Pln ning                     Construction                    Science I Tech-
integrated                            as Cossion            Comaishion (SCC)                  nology Commission
strategic planning
00
Sectoral strategic         Municipal       Land-          Ev.            Land      Planning    Real Estate          Env.          Public
planning,      1-. Engineering    scaping        Protection        Admn.       Bureau       L Housing      Sanltation      Utilities
progrmming             Bureau         Bureau         Bureau         Bureau                    Bureau        Adm.n Bur.       Bureau
(SEPB * SEPO)      _                                        (SESAB)
Buangpu R.    Academy of          Env..               Urban Plan-    urvey           municipal      Utility
Operations and      -    Research      Enviromental   Monitoring               ning L Des.                    W Happing  Waterworks   Companies
maintenance           Department       Sciences         Center                Res. Inst.   Istute            Company         (SSC,
I_______________(AK S)                                                       (5 1)   |     |  (SMWC)      SSPCC)
District Goverments, County Cavernments
(Songjiang, SWWTP)






-109-                         ANNEX 17
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.          The recently completed Environmental Strategy Paper for China (Report No.
9669-CHA) concluded that decades of economic growth, while ignoring environmental
protection, has created a serious threat to the sustainability of that growth. The threat
manifests itsdf in most areas of China, but is particularly acute in large urban areas where
the concentration of population and economic activity has led more rapidly to an
overloading of the absorptive capacity of the environment. In response, the Bank has
formulated an urban environmental lending strategy that assists Chinese reforms aimed at
restructuring economic incentives to internalize more fully the economic costs of
production and consumption, while also assisting in the long-neglected task of providing
a physical infrastructure that can provide services and manage pollution in the most cost-
effective manner.
2.          The decision to support Shanghai follows directly from the Bank's strategy.
As the largest and most developed urban area of China, Shanghai has long served as a
model for China's urban and industrial development. Shanghai has the oldest industial
base of all Chinese cities, but the pressure to remit a high percentage of profits to the
ational government has, until recently, seriously constrained Shanghai's ability to invest
in social infrastructure. By the early 1980s, that underinvestment had resulted in rapidly
incrasing transportation costs over an antiquated road network; in industrial effluent
discharges far exceeding national standards, often discharged directly into waterways used
for industrial and drinking water supply; in uncontrolled hazardous waste disposal; and in
solid waste disposal into landfills with no provision for leachate control. Little attention
had been given to systematic evaluation of these problems either singly or, most
importantly, in their cumulative impact.
3.          Since 1984, the Bank has been working with Shanghai to address this range
of problems. Transportation constraints are being eased through the first Shanghai
Metropolitan Transport (SMTP I) project and the follow-on SMTP II, which finance
transportation planning, improved traffic management, and investment in key urban roads.
As a first step in a long-term program to end the direct discharge of effluents into
municipal waters, the Shanghai Sewerage Project would capture the waste- and stormwater
discharges in downtown Shanghai for primary treatment and disposal through an outfall on
the ChangJiang, relieving pressure on the most highly polluted waters in the urban core of
the municipality. Those IDA credits have speeded the infrastructure construction program,
but much more remains to be done.
4.          Drinking water for Shanghai is abstracted directly from the Huangpu River,
which flows for much of its length through the municipality and bisects its urban core.
Effluent discharge to the Huangpu and its tributares left raw water untreatble to national



- 110 -                       ANNEX 17
and World Health Organization (WHO) drinking water standards by the early 1980s. As
an interim remedy, the Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company (SMWC) constructed
a new intake at Linjiang, upstream of existing intakes. That intake became operational in
1987 and began supplying 57 percent of Shanghai's raw water, water of much higher
qualit than that extracted lower in the system. But even at commissioning Linjiang drew
raw water that usually exceeded at least some WHO and Chinese guidelines at all times
and far exceeded them in the two summer low-flow months. The water treatment plants
in the system can ensure that coliform bacteria counts are held well under WHO standards,
but is unable to cope with oil, phenols, and ammonia that seasonally continue above safe
levels. As a result, Shanghai consumers have continued to suffer from drinking water
virtually unpalatable out of the tap for up to two months each year. Domestic users further
treat the water by boiling (which can reduce the more volatile pollutants), and higher-
income families can avoid the problem through use of activated carbon filters or the
purchase of bottled water. The latter remedies are not accessible to the poorer members
of the population, although the basic supply of piped water remains extremely inexpensive
by intemational standards (see the affordability discussion). Industrial and commercial user
face treatment costs additional to those expected when tap water meets international norms.
5.          Linjiang was, from the start, conceived as the first stage of a program that
would move the intake even furtier upstream to Da Qiao where a larger intake could
abstract water of a quality consistently meeting or exceeding the WHO and Chinese
guidelines. Recognizing that relocation of the intake would be only a temporary solution
to the water quality problem in the absence of other measures to control water pollution,
the Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG) has embarked on a program of comprehensive
reduction of water pollution from the various industrial and household sources. However,
funding constraints and the demands of other programs have to date not permitted
extension of the conveyor and construction of the new intake nor have they allowed rapid
implementation of other program elements.
Proposed Project
6.          SMG requested Bank assistance in a multifaceted program designed to
provide at the least cost a supply of water that can be safely and sustainably consumed
from the tap. The program (see Annex 3 for a detailed description) involves relocation of
the main raw water supply intake and measures to reduce current and future pollution
discharges into the surrounding waterways. The reduction of discharges would protect the
water quality at the new intake, would improve the quality of water abstracted for other
purposes, and, in conjunction with the Shanghai Sewerage Project, would lower pollutants
to a level that would allow the return of fish to the river. The solid waste component
would reduce direct dumping into waterways and cut leachate infiltrtion into ground and
surface water. Investments in management information systems would improve the
efficiency of urban service delivery and give planners the ability to understand and control
interactions between elements of the environmental management system.



- 111A-                               17
Economic Evaluation
7.         The proposed Bank-supported investment program has few benefits for
which the approximate magnitudes of economic returns can be meaningfully quantified.
The main investment, in a new raw water intake, provides a clean substitute source of
water rather than augmenting total water availability. The primary benefits of pollution
abatement and the guarantee of a water supply for Shanghai residents that meets WHO and
Chinese health guidelines do not yield easily to calculation of economic benefits.
Therefore, for the new intake and conveyor, the sewerage works, and improved solid
waste management that form the core of the project, the mission has opted for
identification of the least-cost strategy to sustainably meet internationally accepted health
standards in water supply.
Water Supply
8.         The no-project altemative has already been shown to result in unacceptable
levels of pollutants in the drinking water supply of Shanghai. The broadest possible array
of interventions has been considered for remedying that problem and four alternatives, each
with several variations, were judged the most feasible and subjected to full financial and
economic costing. The alternatives thus valued were:
(a)   Relocation of the intake to Da Qiao. This includes a new intake and
pumping station at Da Qiao; a 21.4 km long multiple-barreled conveyor
system; a 4.96 km long pipeline through the urban area to connect the
existing treatment works at Changqiao and the new proposed treatment
works at Longxi; inlet booster stations at Changqiao treatment works; a
tunnel under the Huangpu; and a balancing tank at Linjiang. Feasibility
studies showed that to maintain Da Qiao intake water quality at the required
level in low-flow periods, the works would have to be complemented by a
300 m3/sec pumping station on Taihu Lake that would supply water via the
Taipu River. The option of boosting net water output through wash-water
recovery at the treatment works was also considered;
(b)   Improved water treatment at the current Linjiang intake. Two basic process
streams were considered, including:
(i) biological treatment for ammonia removal coupled with the
treatment sequence of coagulation; sedimentation, and filtration;
followed by activated carbon for organics removal; and chlorination
for disinfection;
(ii)  biological treatment for ammonia removal coupled with the tetment
sequence in (i) above; followed by ozonation for breakdown of
organics; activated carbon for adsorption of organics; and
chlorination for disinfection;



- 112 -                       ANNEX 12
(c)   Construction of a new intake on the Changjiang. This intake would require
a storage reservoir holding approximately 35 Mm3 on the banks of the river
to supply water during periods of high salinity and the construction of a
conveyor of between 39 Ikm and 67 km in length, depending on routing.
Three alternative reservoir/conveyor routing options were costed. Aside
from avoidable salinity problems during certain tides, the Changjiang water
quality is substantially higher than that at Da Qiao, although the latter also
meets raw water standards when additional water is pumped from Taihu
Lake during low flows; and
(d)   Water pollution abatement sufficient to maintain water quality at acceptable
levels at the present intake. This option would require the completion of
two sewerage systems, the Phase II sewerage system for the Pudong and
Puxi areas and the Wujing and Minhang Districts sewerage system. These
sewerage systems are necessary in the long run for maintenance of Huangpu
River water quality, regardless of the water supply option now chosen, so
the issue is one of investment timing. As shown below, the investments
needed for these schemes are so massive that they cannot be completed
before the year 2000 and were therefore not preferred. The proposed
project does, however, include funds for continued design work and partial
construction of the Wujing/Minhang system in order to minimize long-run
risk to Da Qiao sustainability. Without intake relocation, this alternative
would also require substantial additional plant-level pollution control
measures in industries outside the sewerage districts.
9.          Construction and operation and maintenance (O&M) costs of the four
altemnatives cited above were reestimated using June, 1992 economic prices (the financial
estimates for the alternatives can be found in project files-AnneJ1C). The results are
shown in Table 1.
Table 1: ECONOMIC CosT SummARY FOR PROjEcr ALTERNATIve
(Y million)
Annual          Present value
operating        of capital and
Capital  costs at full      operatint costs
Option                        cost    development       10%     12Z    15%
Do Qiao Intake                2,273       133.0        2,890   2,693  2,450
Advanced Water Treatment      3,867       457.4        6,701   6,131  5,442
Yangtze Convoyor              9,189       401.6       10,698  10,316  9,201
Improv-d Pollution Control   6,604        814.3       11,586  10,606  9,425



- 113 -                       ANNEX 17
10.        The Da Qiao Scheme is clearly the superior option. Indeed, the Da Qiao
intake option costs so much less than the other options that no reasonable alternative
assumptions about construction or O&M costs would alter the outcome. In addition, the
benefit stream would commence earlier (in 1997) with the Da Qiao option than either the
Changiang conveyor or improved pollution control. The option of advanced treatment at
Linjiang is not only much more expensive, but would also not treat the problem of polluted
water from other intakes that the larger-capacity Da Qiao would replace. Given the
magnitude of the investment and remaining design work, neither of those alternatives could
be completed until after the year 2000. Advanced water treatment could probably go on
stream at about the same time as the Da Qiao intake. The four options also have different
risk profiles not captured in the economic prices and these are discussed below in
paras. 20, 26 and 27.
Upper Huanpu Pollution Control
11.        The proposed Loan would also finance three interventions designed to
improve water quality in the Upper Huangpu River. These components would have two
purposes: firstly to protect the quality of water extracted at Da Qiao supporting the
formally created Upper Huangpu Catchment Protection Zone; and secondly to improve the
quality of water for all uses along the river. Without focused long-term programs to
control pollution in the Upper Huangpu catchment, pollution and toxicity levels at Da Qiao
could, in the medium term, approach those now experienced at Linjiang, threatening the
viability of the proposed Da Qiao investment, and the sustained economic growth of
Shanghai. The three components include (a) a water quality monitoring program for the
Upper Huangpu; (b) investments in improved wastewater management and extended
sewerage systems within Songjiang Town; and (c) detailed design and construction of the
Wujing/Minhang sewerage scheme. These subprojects would be discussed in turn.
Water Quality Monitoring
12.        This project component would strengthen and extend the capacity to monitor
Huangpu River water quality. The Shanghai Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center
(SEMC) currently monitors a small number of quality indicators at Da Qiao and has a
monitoring station at Linjiang, which has yet to be commissioned due to lack of funding.
Bank assistance would permit SEMC to commission the Linjiang station, improve the
equipment at both stations, and extend regular monitoring to major tributaries of the
Huangpu. Review of SEMC work shows that they also would benefit from technical
assistance in analysis of the data collected. This monitoring work would help SMG track
the impact of continued industrial development and pollution abatement programs
throughout the Huangpu watershed. It would provide early warning of possible threats to
existing and future intakes and assist in the management of the watershed. Analysis of this
information in conjunction with that from Taihu Lake monitoring work to be undertaken
by the Taihu Basin Authority with Bank support would provide a much more complete
understanding of how the river basin functions and where the most effective pollution
abatement investments can be made.



- 114 -                       ANNEX 17-
13.        During appraisal, SEMC monitoring plans and capabilitY were reviewed; it
was concluded that the proposed program to be an efficient means of accomplishing the
goals listed above. Recurrent budget allocations would be sufficient to sustain the type and
level of monitoring proposed.
Songiang Wastewater Treatment
14.        The proposed Da Qiao intake is located within Songjiang County, which has
experienced rapid industrial development in recent years. Currentdy, the Songjiang Town
sewerage treatment works can treat less than 50 percent of the maximum average daily
total wastewater discharge from the town and untreated wastewater is discharged to
surrounding watercourses, which themselves discharge to the Huangpu near Da Qiao. This
source of domestic and industrial effluents is the most immediately threatening to Da Qiao
and effective treatment of this pollution load would remove that threat. Songjiang County
would be expected to revise their current sewerage tariff system to recover the full cost of
the investmeat. The tariff increases would further shift pollution costs from the
environment to individual polluters, providing an incentive to reduce pollution through
effective within-plant treatment.
15.        Design work continues on the Songjiang scheme. The existence of a
treatment plant with available adjacent land makes treatment plant expansion the least-cost
option. However, as part of the design optimization, the least-ost technology compatible
with the expansion is being determined.
Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution Control Component:  Wujin/Minh
Wastewater System
16.        The Wujing and Minhang neighborhoods of Shanghai, on the west bank of
the Huangpu River below Da Qiao, contain a concentration of industry responsible for
much of the pollution discharge to the Huangpu. That pollution affects Da Qiao in all
seasons due to tidal flows, but the problem is partcularly serious during low flows, when
flow reversals in the Huangpu have been noted to last for extended periods. An extensive
study conducted in 1986 showed that even secondary treatment of the predominantly
industrial wastewaters produced in those disticts would not achieve the required water
quality objectives at Linjiang or lower in the Huangpu. Therefore, among the many
abatement options evaluated, those requiring discharge to either Hangzhou Bay or the
Changjiang River were considered in full.
17.        In view of the importance over the long term of (a) minimizing and
controlling pollution in the Huangpu from Wujing and Minhang, and (b) the need to
protect the ecologically sensitive Hangzhou Bay from wastewaters generated outside the
natural catchment, the project would support the construction of a Northern Sewer System
that would intercept Wujing and Minhang wastewater flows including both domestic and
preteated industrial flows. The system would discharge into the Changiiang through the
proposed east-flowing conveyor at Baolongang, ensuring the long-term protection of the
Hangzhou Bay from these polluting flows. The engineering work identified least-cost



-115 -                        ANNE  17
options; the related financial and economic work would support the tariffs being
implemented for the existing Shanghai wastewater services as agreed with the Bank under
the ongoing Shanghai Sewerage Project (Credit 1779-CHA), such the Shanghai Sewerage
Company will produce revenues in each year equivalent to not less than the sum of its (i)
total operating expenses and (ii) the amount by which debt service requirements exceed the
provision for depreciation.
Municipal Solid Waste Management
18.         The Shanghai Environmental Sanitation Administration Bureau (SESAB) is
responsible for the disposal of some 6,000 tons of municipal solid waste and some
2,000 tons of constuction waste daily, as well as 6,000 tons of nightsoil. Industries are
responsible for collection, treatment and disposal of their own solid waste and most of that
waste (including hazardous) is either recycled or disposed of in an uncontrolled manner.
The building and construction industry generates another 3,000 tons a day, which is
recycled, used as fill material, or disposed of in so-called temporary dumps. Current
landfills include sites along the Huangpu and adjacent to other watercourses. They provide
no protection against leachate flow to surface or groundwater and constitute an important
source of water pollution. The project component includes support for conversion of bad
weather dumping facilities to a properly prepared site away from surface water, use of
containers to minimize spillage, and investment in technical assistance and new plant and
equipment to raise the very low productivity of the collection system. Least-cost options
would be supported by the project. Piloting of alternative organizational forms for waste
collection, such as contracting for the services through local competitive bidding would
also be supported.
Environmental Plannin and Information Systems
19.         The above comprehensive program to improve the Shanghai environment is
based on least-cost investments. The technical assistance component is designed to provide
a framework for future investment planning and management of the current system, but
is not amenable to quantifiable economic returns. The technical assistance include
development of geographical information systems, a hazardous waste strategy study, the
Shanghai Environmental Master Plan and other technical assistance and training. Not all
of this work would be financed under the loan and credit, but these inputs are crucial to
the comprehensive approach taken by this project to analyzing and addressing
environmental problems. The full value of the physical investments would be realized only
if they are well managed; the various studies, technical assistance and training contribute
to that goal.
Risks
20.         The proposed options have embedded in them risks that vary in nature and
degree. Those risks potentially affect the final choice of project and here are grouped into
three types: implementation risks (of construction and operation); catastrophic accident
risk; and risks to long-term sustainability. Each qpe of risk was reviewed.



- 116 -                       ANNEX 17
Implementation Risks
21.         Thesw risks include a variety of physical, institutional, and economic factors
that could interfere with the timely construction or implementation of any of the project
elements. Consideration of these types of risks largely reinforces the selection of the Da
Qiao option for meeting water quality standards. The Da Qiao option requires the least
capital and the least foreign exchange, protecting against difficulty on the part of SMG on
obtaining sufficient quantities of either. Construction and operation conditions are the
same as those for the Linjiang intake and conveyor, which were constructed in recent years
and have been operated successfully. The Changjiang option has similar characteristics and
a substantially similar profile in this regard. The advanced treatment option, however,
would require the operation of a treatment plant much more sophisticated than that
currently used, with high recurrent costs and maintenance needs. The pollution control
option depends on sewerage technologies successfully constructed and operated in
Shanghai. These risks primarily concem operational problems in the event that industries
fail to meet their effluent etment standards.
22.         Proper operation of any alternative solution to the water supply would
require a dependable source of income and that, in tum, depends partally on the
wilingness of SMG to endorse timely water tariff increases or to make the necessary
payments from the municipal budget. Here, Da Qiao also ranks as the least risky simply
because it has the lowest recurrent costs and would therefore require the smallest tariff
increases or government funding allocations. An undertaking to approve and sustain the
required tariff increases would be obtained from SMG. The projected revenue collection
rate and expected unaccounted-for water may prove optimistic, giving a small risk to the
project; taiff adjustments would need to increase to address this risk.
23.         The construction of the WujingfMinhang Northern Sewer presents no
significant risk; it is technically and institutionally straightforward. A minor but not
significant risk is the possible reluctance of the local enterprises and bureau to connect up
to the completed sewer; this has been dealt with through obtaining assurances from SMG.
24.         The Songjiang sewerage component faces the same funding risks as the Da
Qiao project component. These have been minimized through design optimization, analysis
of the financial capabilities of Songjiang County, and county government agreement to
institute sewerage tariffs sufficient to cover O&M costs and debt service. The proposed
technologies are well known i the area and within the operational capabilities of the
current wastewater treatment works management and staff.
25.         The solid waste project would work primarily to improve efficiency of
current operations without requiring substantial changes in the basic technology of that
operation. Nonetheless, implementation would depend on altering management habits that
may not easily yield even to the possibility of substantial cost savings. In addition to the
commitment of the leaders of solid waste management operations, the project seeks to
overcome this risk through a carefully designed program of technical assistance and
training.



- 117 -                       ANNE 17
26.         The remaining project elements depend on strengthening current operations
while adding innovative management or planning advances from experience elsewhere.
The techniques to be introduced have been successfully used in many settings, and
therefore the implementation risks are that they would not be successfully adapted to the
particular institutional circumstances of Shanghai. Project design minimizes these risks
through thorough prior review of the proposed project elements by the institution that
expects to implement them. Implementation would be monitored carefully to identify and
address problems as they arise, a process aided by the provision of adequate funds for
technical assistance.
Catarophic Risk
27.         This type of risk applies to the water supply component of the project and
arises if an accident or willful act prevents operation of the proposed supply scheme. This
could occur if, for example, a major pollution spill took place that reached the intake or
if the works itself had to shut down for mechanical or other reasons. The Shanghai water
supply system contains little storage capacity-approximately two hours of operation-
increasng the damage from any such event. The Linjiang intake currently supplies most
of the operating capacity and risk in that operation is lowered through design of the intake
and pumping plant as well as the fact that most treatment plants continue to have standby
facilities to extract water directly from the Huangpu. Of the four project altematives, the
Changiang option would reduce this risk the most by extracting water from a completely
different source and delivering it over a separate conveyor system. The Da Qiao option
would face risks similar to those faced by Linjiang, although the Linjiang intake would
continue to remain operational, as would direct extraction by the treatment plants,
providing somewhat increased redundancy in the system. The advanced treatment option
would lower the current Linjiang risks by increasing the ability to cope with pollution spills
and the pollution control option would lower the probability of such a spill.
28.         Modeling of the Huangpu shows that moving the intake to Da Qiao from
Linjiang would substantially lower the risk of a catastrophic pollution spill by moving the
intake upstream of the most dense shipping and industrial activity (see Annex 9, Figure 1).
Because of the hydrology of the Huangpu, even a downstream event can affect Da Qiao,
but the concentration of pollutants from any given spill near Da Qiao would be
significantly lower than they would be at Linjiang. Despite the attractiveness of the
Changjiang option in this regard, at this time the very high additional cost is judged not
to warrant the choice of that option. In addition, the upper Huangpu monitoring
component of the project would provide early warning of a major pollution threat, giving
more reaction time than currently available.
Risks to Long-Term Sustainabilty
29.         One class of risks to long-term sustinability, that of financing and
management in project implementation, was discussed in paras. 20-23. The appraisal
mission also considered another fundamental risk to the chosen water supply option. If the
Da Qiao intake is built but the various abatement measures are ignored, increasing



- 118 -                       ANNEX 17
pollution in the Huangpu could, within a decade, leave Da Qiao in the untenable position
currently occupied by Linjiang. This threat is increased by the rapid industrial growth in
the region. For this reason, the project components to control effluent discharge to waters
around Shanghai and to abate the pollution from solid wastes are considered integral to the
long-term sustainability of the water supply system. If those goals can be met, the Da
Qiao intake should be able to meet Shanghai water needs for not only the next decade, but
with expansion of the pumping station and conveyor, for the decade thereafter.
30.         SMG and the relevant sector agencies fully recognize the importance of
increased control and management of pollution throughout the municipality. The Phase II
Sewerage Project and the proposed Songjiang sewerage schemes were developed by SMG
over the past decade and the timing of implementation is mainly dependant of the
availability of funding. The Phase I Sewerage Project (supported by Credit 1779-CHA),
which is to begin operation in December 1993, would reduce the urban district pollutant
load on the Huangpu by 30 percent, and provide some protection to Da Qiao during
extreme low-flow conditions. As mentioned earlier, the major polluting industies have
been successfully required to reduce their total effluent load by about half and investments
continue using the pollution levy fund. The mission considers that SMG has demonstrated
its commitment to pollution control and that the project assists SMG in meeting its goals
for further control and continually lowered risk of sustainable extraction of Huangpu River
water for drinking.
Other Economic Benefits
31.         An improved water supply system offers benefits and returns beyond meeting
nationally and internationally accepted standards for drinking water. The most important
of these returns include the relaxation of quality and quantity constraints on industrial water
supplies. Preliminary analysis by the Shanghai Environment Project Office (SEPO) and
the Design, Review and Advisory (DRA) consultants suggests that the return to increased
supplies are substantial.
Water Tariffs
32.         Water and sewerage tariffs under this project would be increased to reflect
the full financial cost of the water supply. Demand management options and future pricing
strategy would be investigated during the preparation of the Shanghai Water Supply Master
Plan, which would be supported under the project.
Pollution Levy System
33.         SEPO and their DRA consultants have studied the impact of the system on
enterprise choices of pollution levels. The levy appears to be decreasing in real terms,
while abatement costs keep pace with or exceed the inflation rate, inducing less rather than
greater pollution control efforts. This would be further investigated during preparation of
the project-supported Shanghai Water Supply Master Plan.



-119-                         ANNEX 17
Water Demand
34.         A separate note in the project files (Annex 18) discusses the estimates of
water demand against which Da Qiao was designed. That note shows that under the high
demand scenario, Da Qiao would meet demand until the year 2004, and under the medium
demand scenario, until 2008. The mission has affirmed that the proposed Da Qiao intake,
as well as the Changdiang intake, could be expanded to satisfy all probable demand levels
to the year 2010. The Bank conducted a sensitivity analysis on the economic costs of those
two options under alternative demand assumptions and finds that up to a further 35 percent
increase in demand above the current high demand scenario by the year 2005, an expanded
Da Qiao intake remains less costly than a Changjiang intake. This finding affirms the
choice of Da Qiao and associated works as the least-cost option for a satisfactory supply
of water to Shanghai.
Social Impact and Affordability
35.         Almost all housing in urban Shanghai is served by 24-hour piped water, with
only 1 permcnt of the population now relying on standpipes for water supply. The
proposed project would therefore have no effect on domestic water quantity. It would,
however, significantly improve water quality. Currently, households can somewhat
improve the paatability of the water through boiling, which is a common practice at all
income levels. Households wishing additional quality improvements must resort to
activated carbon filters or the purchase of bottled water. Both options are expensive and
resorted to by few households. The project would make water of acceptable quality
available to all households. The associated doubling of the real water tariff would for the
poorest households double the water bill from approximately 1 to 2 percent of household
income (conservatively assuming no increases in real incomes for the poor and no
reduction in the already low quantities of water used). The 2 percent level is low by
international standards and there are no plans to institute a 'lifeline' tariff. However,
SMG has studied the possibility of such tariffs for various public utilities and would
consider implementation if the tariff burden was judged too great. Unfortunately, the tariff
increase does prevent unambiguous conclusions about the welfare impact of water quality
improvement in the absence of high-quality consumer water demand surveys. This would
be further investigated during preparation of the project-supported Shanghai Water Supply
Master Plan.



I



- 120 -                         ANNEXJl
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Shanghai Environmental Project
Predesign Review Report Volume 1 - Main Report
Volume 2 - Appendices
Mott MacDonald, Consulting Engineers, December 1992
2.    Shanghai Environmental Project
Huangpu River Water Quality Protection PC1
Draft Prefeasibility Study Volume 1 - Main Report
Volume 2-4 - Appendices A to K
Mott MacDonald, Consulting Engineers, December 1992
3.    Shanghai Environmental Project
Preliminary Resettement Plan
Mott MacDonald, Consulting Engineers, February 1993
4.    Shanghai Environmental Project
Preliminary Environmental Assessment Report
Mott MacDonald, February 1993
5.    Shanghai Environment Project
Construction Unit Cost Data and Rates Study
SEPO with Ausino Engineering Consultants with Kinhill Engineers, December 1992
6.    Shanghai Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management Study: Terms of Reference
7.    Shanghai Environmental Master Plan (SEMP): Terms of Reference
8.    Shanghai Hazardous Waste Management Study: Terms of Reference
9.    Shanghai Environment Project
Technical Assistance and Training Activities Report:
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Items TAl-T14, and T01-T04.
Mott Macdonald & Partners, September 1993
Chreod Consultants, September 1993
10.   Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company.  Upper Huangpu Da Qiao Water
Supply Scheme. Background Papers. 1990 through 1992.



- 121 -                       ,EX  18
11.   Construction Management and Supervision of PCI: Terms of Reference
12.   Shanghai Municipal Finance Data Analysis, July 1993
13.   Urban Construction Information System, City of Shanghai.
Preparation Study. Consultants Chreod Ltd., May 1993
14.   Water Demand in Shanghai. Project Working Paper. Lee Travers, August 12,
1993 Version.
15.   Shanghai Environment Project
Project Preparation Studies and Peasiblity Reports
Mott MacDonald/KPMG and Partners
PCI through 6, dated June 1993, September 1993 and December 1993
16.   The Comprehensive Plan of Shanghai, 2 maps.
17.   Shanghai Municipal Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management, Five-Year
Improvement Plan.
18.  Taihu Basin Hydrological Dynamic Mathematical Model and Typical Year Water
Supply Calculations; Hehai University, October 1992
19.   Pollution Sources and Water Quality Monitoring Project
Prefeasibility Study Report, Appendices 1-10
Subproject Office of Pollution Sources and Water
Quality Monitoring System, October 1992
20.   Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Co. Enterprise Standards
Q/SS-GL-02-14406-89
Outlines of Elementary Accounting Work (trial)
Issued February 1989                   Trial circulated March 1989
21.   Shanghai Municipal Waterworls Co. Enterprise Standards
Q/SS-GZ-01-05-89
Worling Standards for Financial Section (trial circulation)
Issued February 1989                   Trial circulated March 1989
22.   Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Co. Enterprise Standards
Q/SS-GL-02-14-01-89
Accounting System (trial)
Issued February 1989                   Trial circulated March 1989



- 122 -                       ANNEX 18
23.   Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Co. Enterprise Standards
Q/SS-GL-02-14-02-89
Cash Management System (trial)
Issued February 1989                  Trial circulated March 1989
24.   Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Co. Enterprise Standards
Q/SS-GL-02-14-08-89
Fixed Asset Management System (trial)
Issued February 1989                  Trial circulated March 1989
25.   Annex A: SMWC Fixed Asset Classification Standards and Terms of Depreciation
26.   Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Co. Enterprise Standards
Q/SS-GL-02- 14-05-89
Flow Currency Management System (trial)
Issued February 1989                  Trial circulated March 1989
27.   Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Co. Enterprise Standards
Q/SS-GL-01-14-07-89
Cost Management System (trial)
Issued February 1989                   Trial circulated April 1989
28.   Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Co. Enterprise Standards
Q/SS-GL-02-14-03-89
Regulation for Preparing Financial Budget Program (trial)
Issued February 1989                  Trial circulated March 1989
29.   Notice regarding revision of SMWC Management System of low-cost consumables
Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Co., February 16, 1989
30. Shanghai State-owned Industrial Enterprise Annual Accounting Statement (1992)
prepared by Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Co., administered by Public Utilities
Bureau, January 20, 1993
31. Shanghai State-owned Industrial Enterprise Annual Accounting Statement (1991)
Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Co. administered by Public Utilities Bureau,
January 18, 1992
32.   Charging for Wastewater Discharge
Songjiang Wastewater Treatment Plant, February 1993
33.   Statement of Funds Activity
by Songjiang Wastewater Treatment Plant, 1990, 1991 & 1992



