                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                  Report No: 25717-CHA

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (CPL-37110; SCPD-3711S)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$160 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                FOR THE

                                SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT




                                              June 30, 2003




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective March 10, 1994)

                          Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                                 Y1.00 = US$ 0.12
                                 US$ 1 = Y 8.3
                            METRIC SYSTEM

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1    December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOD         Biological Oxygen Demand
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
GOC         Government of China
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NTU         National Turbidity Unit
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SCG         Songjiang County Government
SDC         Songjiang Drainage Company
SEMC        Shanghai Environmental Monitoring Center
SEPB        Shanghai Environmental Pollution Board
SESAB       Shanghai Environmental Sanitation Administration Bureau
SHUEP       Shanghai Urban Environment Program
SMG         Shanghai Municipal Government
SMSC        Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company
SMWC        Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company
SS          Suspended Solids
SSP1        Shanghai Sewerage Project
SSP2        Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
SWA         Shanghai Water Authority
SWAOD       Shanghai Water Asset Operations Company
SWEC        Shanghai Water Environment Construction Company
SWWTP       Songjiang Wastewater Treatment Plant



                        Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAP
                      Country Director:    Mr. Yukon Huang, EACCF
                       Sector Director:    Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager       Mr. Mats Andersson, EASUR

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                    CHINA: SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               23
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P003586                                                      Project Name: SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT
                                                                         PROJECT
Team Leader: Mats Andersson                                              TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 29, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                             L/C/TF Number: CPL-37110; SCPD-3711S
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (70%); Sewerage (21%); Sub-national government
                            administration (8%); General water/sanitation/flood protection sector
                            (1%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Environmental policies and institutions
                            (P); Other urban development (P); Municipal governance and
                            institution building (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    04/02/1992                                        Effective: 03/10/1994              03/10/1994
   Appraisal:    07/06/1993                                            MTR:
    Approval:    08/03/1994                                         Closing: 06/30/2000               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          People's Republic of China/Municipality of Shanghai
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam Kaji
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Zafer Ecevit (Acting)
Sector Manager:                 Keshav Varma                                   Katherine Sierra
Team Leader at ICR:             Mats Andersson                                 Geoffrey Read
ICR Primary Author:             Terry Hall


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:HL

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    The principal objective of the project was to provide a sustainable environment for the
    long-term economic and social development of Shanghai, while providing a competitive
    framework for industrial growth. In particular, the project focused on ensuring an adequate
    supply of potable water and halting the rapid deterioration of water quality in Shanghai.
    Specific objectives were to: (a) provide safe drinking water; (b) identify and control sources of
    pollution; (c) expand water quality monitoring; (d) improve municipal solid waste and
    nightsoil management; (e) improve municipal, environmental and utility management and
    finances; and (f) support training, feasibility studies, and future investment project
    preparation.

    This project was formulated during a time of profound change in China, with growing
    awareness and emphasis on the control of environmental degradation as a prelude to increased
    economic growth and external interactions, particularly along the eastern seaboard. The
    development objective is very much in line with the Central Government's environmental
    policy and the water pollution control regulations introduced in the late 1980's. Legislation
    pertaining to solid waste management was at the formative stage at that time.

    Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG) has taken a lead role in developing and implementing
    appropriate environmental strategies over the years. Prior to the identification of the Shanghai
    Environment Project (SEP) in 1991, the Bank Group worked with the Government of China
    (GOC) on a number of projects across the country, addressing environmental degradation
    issues, including the Shanghai Sewerage Project (SSP1, Credit 1179-CHA/Loan 2749-CHA)
    with SMG. When SEP was identified the Shanghai Sewerage Project was being implemented
    successfully and was well managed. Institutional and financial management reforms included
    in this project were also implemented by SMG.

    Assessment of Objectives:

    The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in 1993 highlighted the need to
    support economic reform while assisting infrastructure modernization in an environmentally
    responsive way, with problems best addressed at municipal and regional level where the
    Bank's comparative advantage could be used most effectively. At that time the GOC
    accorded highest priority to environmental protection targeting industrialized cities and
    regions, including the Shanghai Municipal region where SEP is located. Environment-related
    sector work carried out by the Bank included a number of urban sector surveys, and an
    Environmental Strategy Paper which identified major environmental issues, causes and
    remedies for addressing them. The recommended program of environmental operations
    assessed institutional capacity and included the Shanghai Environment Project (SEP). Thus,
    the SEP objective was very much in line with the CAS, focusing on: (a) developing strategies
    for improved quality of the environment; (b) prioritizing environmental improvements; (c)
    supporting priority environmental investments; (d) strengthening environmental institutions;
    and (e) promoting sound financial and cost-recovery policies.




                                                  - 2 -

    Referring to the specific project objectives, the project was geared toward improving the
    drinking water supply and quality for Shanghai implementing measures for pollution control at
    source, in particular regarding the highest industrial polluters, and establishing a modern
    water quality monitoring environment at the water intake facility. Municipal solid waste and
    night soil management were to be enhanced through own financing.


3.2 Revised Objective:
    The original objectives remained valid throughout the project and therefore were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
    The original investment program comprised the following project components (PCs):

    PC1. Drinking Water Quality Protection ($291.7 m.). This component included the
    construction of a major raw water supply system for Shanghai Municipality, including a new
    intake on the Huangpu River at Da Qiao (of about 5.4 million m3/day capacity), pump
    stations, 25 km of multiple-barrel low-pressure supply culverts, surge protection, telemetry
    and controls, selected improvements to existing treatment facilities and distribution systems,
    and the strengthening of operational and financial procedures.

    Implementing Agency: The Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company (SMWC), the
   largest water utility in China, had been well established for many years.

   Objective: To safeguard the source of drinking water for Shanghai by relocating the water
   intake at Da Qiao some 27 km further upstream from the existing intake source at Linjiang,
   where water quality had become unacceptable due to pollution which had become heavily
   polluted. When combined with measures provided in other project components, the works
   under the PC1 component provided a sound strategy for securing safe drinking water for
   Shanghai.

   PC2. Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution Control ($64.6 m.). This component was
    designed to protect and improve the water quality at the new Da Qiao intake and conveyor
    system through the construction of wastewater conveyance systems in the Wujing and
    Minhang neighborhoods, including the provision of secondary and tertiary sewers. The
    component as designed, included: pre-discharge treatment for 33 major industrial polluters
    (financed outside of SEP); and the Wujing/Minhang sewer system (part of the SMG
    Wastewater Master Plan). This system was designed to discharge some 700,000 m3/day of
    domestic and pre-treated industrial flows to a proposed east-flowing conveyor (now built and
    operational under the Second Shanghai Sewerage Project (Loan 3987-CHA)), for discharge
    to the Changjiang at Bailonggang, thus reducing the Huangpu River's pollution.

    Implementing Agency: Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company (SMSC). Prior to SEP, the
    Bank was already working with this company on the on-going Shanghai Sewerage Project
    (SSP1 project, Credit 1779-CHA, Loan 2749-CHA) at that time. The financial and
    institutional reforms already implemented under SSP1 were carried over to this SEP
    component.


                                                 - 3 -

Objective: The objective of this component was one of three interlinked interventions to
safeguard and improve the river water quality at Da Qiao (the other two are discussed under
PC3 and PC4). The Wujing/Minhang areas on the west bank of the Huangpu River below Da
Qiao contained a concentration of industry considered to be substantially responsible for
pollution discharges to the river (which is tidal much well further upstream than Da Qiao).


PC3. Songjiang Wastewater Pollution Control ($38.9 m.). The This component provided
for protection and improvement of water quality at the new Da Qiao intake and conveyor
system through the extension of the domestic and industrial wastewater collection and
treatment facilities in Songjiang Town, including provisions for system connections.

Implementing Agency: Songjiang Wastewater Treatment Plant (SWWTP), now renamed as
the Songjiang Drainage Company (SDC).

Objective: This component was designed to address the discharge of untreated domestic and
industrial wastewater from Songjiang Town into the Huangpu River in the near vicinity of Da
Qiao. Effective treatment of this pollution load would remove this threat to river water
quality at Da Qiao.

PC4. Pollution Sources and Water Quality Monitoring ($4.7 m.). The construction of a
water quality monitoring laboratory near the new water supply intake, together with
associated sampling and analytical equipment to monitor quality in the Upper Huangpu
Catchment were included in PC4.

Implementing Agency: Shanghai Environmental Monitoring Center (SEMC).

Objective: The objective of this component was to strengthen and expand SEMC's capacity
to monitor Huangpu River water quality.

PC5. Municipal Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management ($43.9 m.). This component
The developed appropriate solid waste and nightsoil management strategies, and financed
investments in a mechanical plant and civil works for system improvements. Support was also
provided for improved nightsoil disposal.

Implementing Agency: Shanghai Environmental Sanitation Administration Bureau
(SESAB).

Objective: The component included support for conversion of existing emergency bad
weather dumping facilities to prevent pollution of away from surface water (Huangpu River
and Suzhou Creek), and investments in technical assistance and a new plant and equipment to
improve productivity for long-term environmental benefits.

PC6. Institutional Strengthening through Technical Assistance and Training ($12.8 m.)



                                             - 4 -

   . Support for and strengthening of environmental, financial and utility management and to
   support operations, training, preparation of a Shanghai Water Master Plan, geographic
   information systems development in support of planning and the Shanghai Economic Reform
   Action Plan, water supply and wastewater management and environmental monitoring,
   institutional strengthening of SESAB, including the management of workshops and landfill
   operations, feasibility studies, and future project preparation. The Shanghai Environment
   Master Plan and Hazardous Waste Management Study, financed by Australia and Norway
   respectively, were implemented in parallel with SEP.

   Implementing Agency: SMG.

   Objective: To improve municipal, environmental and utility management and finances, and to
   support training, feasibility studies, and future investment project preparation.

   Assessment of Designs:

    All the above components were interlinked, appropriately addressing the principal objective of
    the project. They were designed to respond to the specific objectives as stated above. PC1
    Protect Drinking Water Quality·was implemented by SMWC, a long established company with
    rich experience in constructing and managing large-scale waterworks facilities. SMSC,
    responsible for the Upper Catchment Pollution Control program, was well experienced in
    implementing and operating similar schemes. The SSP1 project was successfully completed
    and set into operation in 1995. The Songjiang Wastewater Treatment Plant (now Songjiang
    Drainage Company) remained a weak institution throughout the project though. However,
    the works under this component (PC3) were designed, with support from local municipal
    sector design institutes, to provide least-cost optimal designs.

    A team of local/foreign design review experts was appointed by SMG early during the
    preparation of the project. This team interacted well with the local design bureaus selected to
    prepare designs for the individual project components, resulting in the preparation of high
    quality least-cost designs for the selected project components. Lessons learned from SSP1
    project were factored into the SEP component design (e.g. linking physical works with
    actions to address institutional development). The tasks represented complex civil works,
    challenging the skills of design institutes and implementing agencies. The institutional
    strengthening of SESAB was included early in the SEP program to address shortcomings in
    this institution.

3.4 Revised Components:

    The following additional investments were implemented using about $35 million of project
    cost savings identified in 1998. These additional investments, agreed by the Bank, were
    entirely consistent with the project objectives and did not constitute a restructuring of the
    project. They had been discussed and conceptualized already at the SEP preparation stage,
    but not included in the project scope at the time in order to maintain a reasonably manageable
    project size. Consequently, rather than pursuing to cancel a portion of the loan, SMG



                                                  - 5 -

proposed addition of these investments using the cost savings, thereby further deepening the
achievement of the project objectives.

PC1. Drinking Water Quality Protection.
a) Songjiang Northern District Water Supply Scheme. Renovate eight existing water
treatment stations, thus enabling to abandon existing highly polluted raw water sources.
Implementing Agency: Songjiang District Government.
Objective: To provide 150,000 m3/day raw water of improved quality for distribution.

b) Changqiao Waterworks Renovation. Replacing worn out treatment processing facilities
and equipment dating from 1959.
Implementing Agency: SMWC.
Objective: To provide 600,000 m3/day of potable water for distribution. These additional
components are entirely consistent with the project objective of providing safe drinking water.

PC2. Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution Control.
a) Interception/Separation of Storm and Foul Discharges in city areas.
Implementing Agency: SMSC.
Objective:To reduce pollution to water courses from storm drains where foul sewers had
been misconnected to storm pipes.

b) Rehabilitation of Shanghai Main South Trunk Sewer and Pump Stations. Renovation in
areas damaged by recent urban development in Pudong area and to update pump station
equipment (part of Shanghai's Wastewater Master Plan).
Implementing Agency: SMSC.
Objective:To restore the carrying capacity of this trunk wastewater conveyor.

c) Rehabilitation of Existing Wastewater Treatment Plants. Replace obsolete and worn out
equipment and provide sludge handling facilities at six existing plants in the city areas.
Implementing Agency: SMSC.
Objective:To improve the effluent discharge quality and sludge handling.These additional
components are entirely consistent with the project objective of identifying and controlling
sources of pollution.

Assessment of Design:

These additional investments were identified within the Shanghai Water and Wastewater
Master Plans, developed and approved by the municipal authorities. The component designs
were prepared by local/foreign municipal design institutes and consultants to provide
least-cost options for construction.

These supplementary investments were carried out by SMWC and SMSC within the context
of their main SEP operations. These works also represented complex civil works, challenging
the skills of design institutes and implementing agencies.




                                             - 6 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:


    The quality at entry is considered highly satisfactory for the following reason. The project
    was initially identified by SMWC in the mid-1980's in an effort to address deteriorating raw
    water quality at the Linjiang intake on Huangpu River. Funding constraints at SMG at that
    time delayed implementation. GOC/SMG requested Bank support for a proposed SEP during
    GOC/WB lending program discussions. This was fully consistent with the Bank's CAS.
    GOC recognized that industry was a major source of pollution in China and targeted Shanghai
    to receive attention to improve the environment. SMG also acknowledged that sustained
    protection of the environment was a pre-requisite for long-term economic growth.

    The Bank was already worked with SMG on the ongoing Sewerage Project (SSP1), which
    was nearing completion at the time. The Bank's team of senior professionals deployed on
    project identification, was already working with SMG on SSP1, and the personnel were fully
    familiar with Shanghai sector institutions and issues. Thorough, effective strategic discussions
    were held with all interested parties to ensure the most effective long-term solutions for
    Shanghai. All components were interlinked to support GOC and SMG sector objectives,
    designed by municipal sector specialists to provide least-cost construction options. The
    project was designed to contribute significantly to improving the environment. Compliance
    with the Bank's safeguard policies were ensured through high quality Environmental
    Assessments and Resettlement Action Plans.

    Risks identified during preparation of the project included: (a) possible reluctance by SMG
    and Songjiang County Government to sanction tariffs for operational needs; (b) possible
    unwillingness by SMG to enforce pollution control levies; (c) delays by SMG in implementing
    institutional development; and (d) the possibility of a serious toxic spill close to the new water
    supply intake that would close this facility for some time. These issues were all discussed at
    length during the preparation and appropriate mitigating measures built into the project.

    At the outset, SMG set up a high level Leading Group and a Project Office (headed up by a
    senior manager from SEPB) and engaged a consultant design review team (supported by the
    United Kingdom Government) to assist in project preparation activities. This team interacted
    closely with the local design institutes to ensure that high quality appropriate designs were
    prepared. Experienced technical and management staff was assigned from SMSC and SMWC
    to expedite progress. During preparation of the PC2 component, SMG decided to relocate
    the Wujing/Minhang wastewater discharge away from Hangzhou Bay in the south (as shown
    on the Wastewater Master Plan at the time), to the Changjiang Estuary at Bailonggang to the
    east of Shanghai city, where the dispersion and assimilative capacity of the receiving water
    body were satisfactory. This proved very cost-effective and provided substantial
    environmental benefits by mitigating the degradation already experienced from existing
    pollution in Hangzhou Bay in addition to the reduction of pollution in Huangpu River. At
    appraisal, all feasibility work was done and detailed designs and tender documents were
    completed for some 40% of the value of the implementation program. Implementation started
    immediately upon effectiveness.




                                                 - 7 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
    The outcome consitute three main parts: (1) Potable Water Supply. The Da Qiao works
    (PC1), when commissioned in 1998, provided safe potable water for 8-10 million people; (2)
    Halt Degradation of Water Quality. Works implemented under PC2 & 3 were able to protect
    and improve water quality at the Da Qiao intake; and (3) Institutional Strengthening. The
    capacity of all sector institutions were significantly enhanced ensuring the sustainability of the
    physical investments.

    While various project components are rated highly satisfactory, and the project objectives
    were addressed in a very comprehensive way, overall, the project's outcome is rated
    satisfactory. The project was designed to provide sustainable environment for the long-term
    economic growth and social development of Shanghai· focusing particularly on an adequate
    supply of potable water and halting the rapid deterioration of the water quality in Shanghai.
    The works under the Da Qiao component (PC1), when commissioned in 1998, provided 5.0
    million m3/d of fully treated water to the core Shanghai city area, serving some 8-10 million
    residents. The PC2 & 3 components prevented degradation of water quality in a significant
    way.

    All sector institutions have been strengthened through broad training activities on utility
    company, infrastructure, geographic information system (GIS), and environmental
    management. The project included 21 such sub-components, enhancing the capability of
    numerous project related government agencies. Some 200 senior and mid-level managers
    were given training and project agencies and their consultants gained full competence in Bank
    procurement procedures. Improvement of staff skills resulting from training program, was an
    important output from SEP.

    Local contractors gained rich experience in soft ground tunneling technology in the SSP1 and
    SEP projects. The SSP2 project and other infrastructure operations (metro rail tunneling) in
    Shanghai are now benefiting from this expertise.

4.2 Outputs by components:
    This section describes the physical outputs of the investment components. The overall project
    rating is satisfactory.

    PC1-Drinking Water Quality Protection: physical Highly Satisfactory. The relocation of the
    raw water intake to Da Qiao on the Huangpu River, together with associated pumping and
    conveyor systems was commissioned in 1998 (less than twelve months behind the appraisal
    schedule) providing about 5.0 million m3/day (as estimated in the SAR) of fully treated water
    of enhanced quality to benefit some eight to ten million people in Shanghai (about 70% of the
    supply for the core city area). Using cost savings, additional sub-components included the
    rehabilitation of Changqiao Waterworks of 600,000 m3/day capacity and the treatment and
    disposal of sludge from this works (to meet recent central government legislation introduced
    in the late 1990s). At Da Qiao, the Huangpu River classification is normally Class III quality,
    compared with the quality at the old Linjiang intake where Class IV/V quality dominated.



                                                  - 8 -

China uses a water quality classification system from Class I to Class V, with Class I being the
best quality. Class I-III are acceptable for drinking water. Treated water quality has
improved with turbidity around 0.2 National Turbidity Units (NTU), and chemical dosing has
been reduced by 50%. According to local user surveys, Improvement of staff skills resulting
from training programs, was an important output from SEP. he treated water now has a
better taste than before SEP. This has improved Shanghai's image in attracting investors. In
order to maintain this position over the longer term SMWCT is considering pretreatment
measures at Da Qiao to further safeguard this major source for the city, and to address SMG's
target that the city's water supply should be suitable for direct drinking by the year 2010
(corresponding to European Union standards).

The Songjiang Northern Water Supply component, which providing a capacity of 150,000
m3/day water supply of improved quality to around 0.5 million people in the Songjiang area.
In this scheme the water source is also the Huangpu River;, and the quality of treated water
has improved substantially (e.g. the turbidity of treated water has been reduced from 3 to 1
NTU) as a result of the project. In addition, the use of treatment chemicals has also been
reduced (Chlorine and alum doseshave reduced by 15% and 30% respectively). In 2002 this
scheme was providing 136,000 m3/day (85% capacity) of fully treated water of supply. (85%
capacity). Full utilization of the scheme is on track for 2004 after minor service network
extensions.

As a result of SEP, Shanghai has been able to attract additional investments in the water
sector. Nanshi treatment works for example (of 0.905 Mm3/d capacity) have been
refurbished with assistance from the Government of France at a cost of US$85.8 million with
assistance of $22.0 million mixed loans from the Government of France.

Resettlement involved both resident population and enterprises, and was carried out well with
adequate compensation and reemployment. Satisfactory Resettlement Action Plans and
Environmental Impact Assessments were provided for all added project components based on
cost savings. The resettlements were completed in August 2001; subsequent additional
compensation and measures were applied in a few cases. For details, see the attached
Summary of External Monitoring and Evaluation for Resettlement in Annex 9.

PC2-Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution Control: Highly Satisfactory. This component
comprised: (a) wastewater conveyance and pumping systems in the Minhang and Wujing areas
to intercept wastewater flows previously discharging directly to Huangpu River; and (b) a
program (not financed under the project) to address industrial pollution in the catchment from
33 priority industrial units to ensure compliance with standards for discharge to sewerage
systems. The works under (a) were completed very successfully to a high quality of
construction. (National awards for quality excellence were obtained for some contracts) A
discharge capacity of 700,000 m3/day was provided, presently somewhat less than fully
utilized due to the following reasons: (a) development plan changes; (b) some industrial units
were relocated; (c) infiltration was less than anticipated due to improved pipe joints and
internal lining; and (d) additional tertiary sewers were needed to convey the flows to the main
sewers. Some tertiary sewers have been laid, and more are planned by the concerned local



                                               - 9 -

governments during the next five years. Full utilization is expected by 2008.

During SEP preparation, 33 factories were identified as major industrial polluters affecting
water quality in the upper reaches of the Huangpu River. These target industries accounted
for some 75% of the industrial pollution and were required to implement in-factory measures
to control the pollution discharges. Ten factories were closed or relocated. Treatment
facilities were provided at the remaining 22 units by 1998, maintaining substantial compliance
with the covenanted agreement. In 1997 the Shanghai Environmental Protection Bureau
(SEPB) introduced more stringent wastewater discharge standards, particularly in the vicinity
of the Da Qiao water supply intake, requiring effluent discharges to meet limits of 20 mg/liter
(mg/l) of suspended solids (SS) and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD). Industrial units are
now required to meet these standards. The Wujing/Minhang northern trunk sewer was
commissioned in 2000(it is now operating at about 50% capacity), and wastewater discharges
from about 130 industrial units, including the original 22 units identified at appraisal, are
intercepted to this sewer. This is about 95% of the industrial wastewater from the area and a
reduction in the industrial wastewater pollution discharge of 90% is reported from the 1993
levels.

The water supply intake (PC1) was relocated to Da Qiao to benefit from better quality water
in the upper reaches of the Huangpu River. However, Water quality in the upper reaches of
the Huangpu River is currently reported to be declining again as a consequence of pollution
originating mainly outside Shanghai, principally due mainly to polluted inflows from Jiangsu
and Zhejiang provinces. The main pollutants of concern were ammonia, phosphorus and some
soluble organic compounds petroleum oil. Organic chemical levels generally remain too low
to be detected. As mentioned above, the water classification quality at the Da Qiao water
supply intake generally reaches Category class III, (depending on the season and flow
conditions), but on occasion declines to Category IV. In particular, although ammonia
concentrations are reported to exceed Category III levels 50% of the time (1998-2002
data).in Class IV have been reported. Nevertheless this still shows a very substantial
improvement over pre-project conditions (1994­1997 before commissioning of Da Qiao) at
the former Linjiang intake where ammonia concentrations exceeded even Category IV levels
60% of the time. Recent work for SEMC confirms that ammonia levels increase consistently
towards the confluence with the Changjiang over a variety of flow conditions (by a factor of
4/5 times between Da Qiao and the Changjiang). Measures to curtail animal farming and
extension of the water protection zone in the upper Huangpu are reported to assist in
stabilizing water quality. Although ammonia concentrations at Da Qiao exceeded Class III
level 50% of the time ( 1998-2002 data), this may be compared with the situation at Linjiang
old intake site where this pollution indicator exceeded even Class IV requirements for more
than 60% of the time during 1994-1997 (before Da Qiao was commissioned)

PC2 involved significant resettlement and was fully and adequately completed by the end of
2002. For details, see attached Summary of External Monitoring and Evaluation for
Resettlement in Annex 9.

Water quality in the Huangpu River declines substantially as it traverses through the Shanghai



                                            - 10 -

Municipality area as a consequence of the discharge of wastewater from urban areas, industry
and agriculture. In particular, ammonia concentrations reportedly increase by factors of 4-5
between Da Qiao and the confluence of the Huangpu and the Changjiang. Continued
pollution control in the Upper Huangpu catchment is expected to be a key component of the
proposed Shanghai Urban Environment Project (SHUEP) recently approved by the Bank.

PC3 Songjiang Wastewater Pollution Control: Satisfactory. The project financed
conveyance/pumping systems, link sewers and, primary and secondary treatment for about
63,000 m3/day of mixed wastewater, which would otherwise discharge directly to the
Huangpu River in the immediate vicinity of Da Qiao intake. The works were completed to a
satisfactory quality of construction and commissioned in 2001. Apart from minor deviations,
effluent quality meets the required standard of 20mg/liter (mg/l) suspended solids (SS) and
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) set by the SEPB. In 2002 the works operated at the
design flow and the monthly average water quality of treated effluent quality was 9.1 mg/l SS
and 8.9 mg/l BOD(based on monthly averages). Minor departures from the specified norms
for BOD and SS were reported by SDC due to: greater strength of raw wastewater compared
with design assumption (in 2002 average chemical oxygen demand was 635.5 mg/l compared
with the design figure of 400 mg/l); and the need for minor modifications to the sedimentation
tanks (already being done by SDC). Staff training to improve operational skills, was reported
as an important contributing factor to the successful operation of this plant. This component
fully meets its appraisal objective to protect and improve the quality of water in the vicinity of
Da Qiao by interception and treatment of industrial and domestic wastewater from the urban
area of Songjiang. The works were constructed to fully satisfactory quality. Local/foreign
management experts provided construction management support. There is space at the site to
extend the treatment works and sewers were designed for wastewater flows of 112,000 m3/d
anticipated by 2010.

PC 4- Pollution Sources and Water Quality Monitoring: Satisfactory. A new laboratory, near
the Da Qiao intake, was built and equipped. Vessels were provided for water quality
monitoring of Huangpu River and road vehicles provided for sampling land-based pollution.
The facility is fully operational and staffed by SEMC. Water quality monitoring/forecasting
and the Huangpu River information system have been provided. Operational and SEMC staff
skills have been enhanced through local and overseas specialized training for about 40
personnel. As a result of SEP, this organization is now properly well equipped to carry out a
wide range of analyses previously contracted out to other government and private
laboratories. This has improved the operational efficiency of SEMC. This organization is
now equipped to interact with the national and other state level environmental monitoring
institutions, and is providing national leadership in its sphere of activities.

PC5-Municipal Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management: Satisfactory. This non-Bank
financed component was completed in 2000. Outcome indicators show that 6,500 t/day of
waste are now disposed of in controlled landfill sites, compared to 5,000 t/day before the
project (an increase of 30%). However, some 2,500 t/day of municipal solid waste remains to
be controlled, which is being addressed by SMG. Overall, the rate of controlled disposal has
increased from 5541% before the project to about 72% at the completion (compared with



                                              - 11 -

100% estimated at appraisal). In addition, The nightsoil disposal system was eliminated (80%
estimated at appraisal). A Hazardous Waste Management Study was completed under the
project and implementation of study recommendations has started, with an initial investment
by SMG of about US$45 million. Further work in the waste management sector is included
within the Shanghai Urban Environment Program (SHUEP project), supported by an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) recently approved by the Board of the Bank.

PC6-Institutional Strengthening through Technical Assistance and Studies: Highly
Satisfactory. During project implementation, SMG fundamentally reorganized its water and
wastewater sectors, significantly enhanced its environmental and utility management through
training and studies, and strengthened the utility finances through tariff increases and cost
reductions. Capacity building and various related studies covered numerous municipal
entities, ranging from technical infrastructure units to Shanghai Finance Bureau, effectively
using essentially all loan funds allocated for these purposes. These initiatives helped Shanghai
prepare the ground for a new long-term development program, for continued support by the
Bank.

The project included a comprehensive program of institutional strengthening, technical
assistance, studies and training. This program was prepared in detail in the SAR and fully
utilized. The studies included: water supply distribution analysis, information system and
Master Plan update; financial accounting; water quality forecasting and related information
systems; solid waste management; and strategic planning and geographic information systems.
About 140 person-months of training were provided to improve skill levels of government
sector technical specialists and managers. This component also attracted about US$2.5
million of bilateral grant funding from several countries, providing direct support to studies in
SEP (e.g. water supply master plan) and funding for related sector activities (Support
Program for Urban Rehabilitation in Shanghai). As a result of the SEP intervention, the
updated Shanghai Water Master Plan now provides a digitized network and a related data
base for use by all municipal agencies. Technical innovations in SEP included the use of
fiberglass pipes for water supply, ceramic pump bearings, and lining of sewer pipes to reduce
infiltration.

At the time of project identification, SMWC was operating with nominal profits, supported by
SMG budgetary allocations or subsidies (a typical situation across China at the time). In line
with general economic and enterprise reform, SMG indicated during project preparation that
subsidies would be phased out with tariffs set to enable SMWC to earn rates of return in the
range of 8 to 15 percent on net current fixed assets. Accordingly, rate of return targets were
set up, beginning at 2 percent in 1995 and rising to 7 percent from year 2000 and thereafter.
Although well established as a corporation, SMWC also acknowledged the need for
operational and financial management support.

Songjiang Drainage Company (SDC) was very weak at the time of project preparation(and
remained so throughout the life of SEP). Its income at the time of appraisal in 1993 was
derived from subsidies provided by Songjiang County Government (SCG), industrial
consumers and over-standard discharge fees. No tariffs were levied on domestic consumers at



                                             - 12 -

    that time. As described above in the case for SMWC, operating subsidies were to be phased
    out by SCG, although operating costs seemed to be rising rapidly at the time (20 percent/year
    in 1990-1992). The financial objectives for this component were set in line with those on the
    SSP1 project. Commencing from 1996, SWWTP was required to produce sufficient revenues
    to: (a) cover its total operating costs and the amount by which its debt service requirements
    exceed depreciation; and (b) have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3.

    SMG remained fully committed throughout the project to the program of institutional
    development. The institutional organization of the sector was reformed in 2000. The
    establishment of the Shanghai Water Authority (SWA) with overall responsibility for the
    planning and coordination of all water sector management policies and interventions
    throughout Shanghai Municipality, was one of the first such initiatives in China. See also
    Section 4.5.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
    At appraisal, an economic rate of return was not calculated for the project because of the
    difficulty and time-consuming efforts required to obtain reliable quantified estimates of the
    benefits derived from the project. These included economic, environmental, health,
    institutional and social benefits. Instead the SAR strategy focused on establishing economic
    least-cost options for each component, and provided rigorous analyses of options.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    A financial rate of return was not estimated at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
    The project included a strong institutional development component aimed at strengthening the
    municipal government and improving the management and service delivery capacity of the
    concerned water supply and wastewater companies. An institutional development component
    in the amount of US$12.8 million (2.8% of total project cost estimate at appraisal, or 8% of
    the Bank loan) was provided in the appraised project for extensive technical assistance,
    studies and training (local and overseas). This component, which was well detailed in the
    SAR, was fully utilized.

    Overall, the project's institutional development impact is rated as Highly Satisfactory and
   serves as a good example for future similar projects. The institutional organization of the
   sector was reformed and reorganized in 2000. Shanghai was one of the first cities in China to
   establish a Municipal Water Authority (SWA), consolidating the responsibilities for all water
   related affairs in the municipality, including water supply, sewerage and water resources.
   Three different bureaus, namely the Public Utilities Bureau, the Municipal Engineering Bureau
   and the Water Resources Bureau, previously carried out these responsibilities respectively.
   SMSC and SMWC were reorganized into regional operating companies. Apart from the
   Shanghai Municipal Raw Water Company (SMRWC), which was set up in 1992, and operates
   the raw water supply facilities for the city, there are now four water supply operating
   companies namely: Shanghai Waterworks North; South; Minhang; and Pudong. SMWC no
   longer exists. Three operating companies under the SMSC namely the South; Mid; and North
   Shanghai Drainage Companies were established to manage sewerage operations. SMSC



                                                  - 13 -

remains under SWA for overall management of the sewerage sector. The Shanghai Water and
Environment Construction Company (SWEC), is a construction engineering consultancy firm,
with project management responsibilities, including for World Bank supported projects in
Shanghai. SWEC also reports to SWAMSC. The Shanghai Water Assets Operation and
Development Company (SWAOD) has been established under the Shanghai Urban
Construction & Development General Corporation (UDIC), and is responsible for sector asset
management and financing. The regional operational companies are designed to respond more
readily to customer needs. These changes will support the long termlong-term sustainability
of the sector through greater efficiency (e.g. reduction of unaccounted for water).

SWA has introduced competitive mechanisms for operations in the sector, including foreign
and local non-government financing, and appropriate tariff levels in conjunction with
reduction in production costs. Domestic and international private sector enterprises are now
involved through concessions or ownership in both the water and wastewater sectors in
Shanghai. The Pudong/Vivendi joint venture for water supply in Pudong and a non-state
owned Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) operation for the Zhuyuan wastewater treatment plant
are examples. Prior to 2002, the master plans for water supply and wastewater were
separately prepared by different agencies or companies, based on rather high water
consumption figures. Recent master plan revisions, prepared under the direction of SWA,
have adopted lower consumption figures to more closely reflect reality. For the first time, the
city is also able, due to SEP support, to make use of a digitized network and a related data
base. All city utilities and other agencies now have available a common digitized base map for
planning, operations and maintenance; this is a major achievement for a city the size of
Shanghai. The capacities of the Urban Information Center, and the Mapping Agency have
been significantly enhanced. An Environment Information System was set up in the Shanghai
Environment Protection Bureau (SEPB). This system is linked to the national and provincial
EPB's and provides direct monitoring of major pollution sources around Shanghai. This
experience in SEPB has provided sector leadership for other provinces. Senior officials from
Shanghai municipality have also gained international exposure in state-of-the-art city
management techniques, thus enhancing Shanghai's strategic development planning capacity.

Compliance with Financial Covenants. During project implementation, both water supply
and wastewater tariffs were increased a number of times (most recently in early 2002) to
address the financial autonomy of the operating companies. Whilst SMSC has maintained
compliance with its financial covenant throughout the project, SMWC (and its successor
companies) and SDC would need further tariff enhancements to meet the covenanted targets,
most significantly in Songjiang District. Based on significant initiatives by SWA to create
incentives and an environment for operational efficiency gains (i.e. lower costs), it is
considered that the authorities have endeavored to meet the spirit of the covenants if not the
letter, to ensure financially sustainable utility companies. In the case of Songjiang, the District
Government has to date provided SDC with sufficient annual transfers to maintain full and
efficient operations. The Da Qiao facility, operated by the Shanghai Raw Water Company,
has maintained a very strong financial record since being established in 1992. SMG initiatives
to involve greater private participation in water and wastewater utility operations should lead
to improved financial situations in SMWC and SDC in the medium term. Meanwhile, with



                                               - 14 -

    financial contributions from the district government, SDC continues to operate the Songjiang
    wastewater treatment and sludge disposal facility very satisfactorily, producing effluent quality
    50% better than the SEPB standard in 2002. The treatment and disposal of waterworks
    sludge (now mandated by government) and SMG's commitment to improving the drinkability
    of the Shanghai water supply will, however, further increase the pressure onShanghai water
    supply operational costs in the future.

    All sector institutions have been strengthened through broad training activities on utility
    company, infrastructure, geographic information system (GIS), and environmental
    management. The project included 21 such sub-components, enhancing the capability of the
    project related government agencies. Some 200 senior and mid-level managers were given
    training and project agencies and their consultants gained full competence in Bank
    procurement procedures.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

    Project Cost Savings. Over the years both domestic and foreign inflation rates have varied
    substantially from the values estimated at appraisal and quoted in the SAR. The domestic
    inflation rate went, for example, from 17.1% in 1995 to 2.8% in 1997 to 0.4 % in 2002,
    contributing to some extent to the project contract cost savings in the project.

    At appraisal the exchange rate used to convert foreign costs to local currency was Y8.7 per
    US Dollar. This has remained relatively constant during the project period, being Y8.3 per
    US Dollar in 2002 (a movement of some 4%). This would slightly increase the utilization of
    the loan, particularly for civil works in view of the lack of interest by foreign bidders.

    Although the bidding for major works was somewhat late in starting, compared to the
    program in the SAR, the bid prices for major civil works contracts were consistently found to
    be substantially lower than the SAR estimates (averaging 30% lower for PC1). At the time
    this was attributed to a downturn in construction opportunities in the Shanghai area, resulting
    in very keen bidders. However, lower than anticipated domestic inflation, particularly from
    1997 onwards, and the lack of interest from foreign bidders for civil works contracts, also
    contributed to the low prices (compared to the SAR estimates). The price of reinforcement
    steel, for example, also declined by 27% during the period 1993 to 1995. As a result of these
    factors it became clear mid way through the project that a substantial amount of the loan
    (some $35 million) would likely remain unutilized.

    Despite the relatively high threshold of US$10 million (compared with $3 million in SSP1),
    the procurement of ICB civil works contracts attracted no interest from foreign bidders and all
    contracts were awarded to local firms. Greater emphasis on turn-key type procurement in
    future similar projects may allow foreign/local joint venture firms to compete by offering
    further improved construction management skills.

    Apart from the tunneling contracts, the works were straightforward and well within the



                                                     - 15 -

    capacity of the local construction industry (many awards were received for excellence of
    construction quality). Shanghai contractors are now very experienced in soft ground
    tunneling and thrust boring technologies, and were able to undertake these higher technology
    contracts very successfully and at prices much lower than estimated in the SAR. This
    experience has developed over recent years, benefiting from knowledge gained also under the
    SSPI project and other municipal tunneling activities (metro rail construction) in the Shanghai
    area. Benefits are now also being experienced in the SSP2 project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

    Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG) Commitment. SMG maintained strong commitment
    to the project throughout. The SEPO was maintained and adequately staffed throughout the
    project life and continuity of management was maintained. SMG reorganized the sector
    institutionally, including setting up the Shanghai Water Authority (a pioneering initiative in
    China). The proposed SHUEP would support further enhancement of the city's
    environmental infrastructure to achieve the highest standards of urban environmental quality.

    Procurement Procedures. Central Government procedures for ICB goods and equipment
    contracts required review/clearance of tender documents and award winning contractor's
    tenders by the Ministry of Foreign Trade Economic Corporation (MOFTEC) prior to
    submission to the Bank for its no-objection This procedure (with unpredictable durations
    during the early years of SEP) was excluded from the implementation program included in the
    SAR, and created substantial delays in awarding goods contracts (up to eight months). The
    ICB equipment contracts under PC1 seemed particularly affected. However, the recent
    introduction of electronic mail communication has substantially reduced and helped control
    this process time. However, these procurement procedures should nevertheless be factored
    into implementation schedules for future similar projects.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

    The implementing agencies for the project were: Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company
    (SMWC); Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company (SMSC); Songjiang Wastewater
    Treatment Plant (SWWTP); Shanghai Environmental Monitoring Center (SEMC); Shanghai
    Environmental Sanitation Administration Bureau (SESAB); and Shanghai Municipal
    Government (SMG). High commitment was maintained throughout the project, and
    implementing agencies provided effective management for the design and implementation of
    all components. Design bureaus and consultants were engaged in a timely manner, and the
    selected procurement agency for ICB contracts all provided competent professional support
    to SEPO and the implementing agencies.

    The SEPO management remained consistent throughout the project. Periodic reporting was
    timely and comprehensive, all in accordance with the legal requirements. The physical
    investment components were all completed to high quality although somewhat behind the
    original appraisal schedule due to initial unfamiliarity with Bank procurement procedures and
    the Central Government monitoring of ICB goods contracts mentioned above. While the
    concerned agencies quickly came to terms with the Bank procedures, the delays caused by the



                                                    - 16 -

    Central Government monitoring of ICB goods contracts persisted even through the
    implementation of the supplementary sub-components. A number of awards were received by
    the implementing agencies for excellence of construction quality. Land acquisition and
    resettlement were implemented well in accordance with national policies and World Bank
    directives.

5.4 Costs and financing:

    The total project cost, excluding taxes and duties, is about US$555.3 million which is some
    22% higher than the original cost estimate of US$456.6 million given in the SAR. The
    current project cost excludes: (a) Nanshi waterworks rehabilitation, financed by SMG and a
    US$22 million loan from the Government of France (total cost US$85.77 m.); and (b) a grant
    of US$0.7 million from the Government of United Kingdom to support the preparation of a
    Water Supply Master Plan. The completed project does include additional sub-components
    under PC1-Drinking Water Quality Protection and PC2-Upper Huangpu Protection, totaling
    some US$95.6 million. These sub-components, which are consistent with the project
    objectives and the Shanghai Master Plan programs, were introduced in 1998 in order to
    address some US$35 million of contract savings. In order to allow adequate time for
    implementation of the added investments, the project closing date was extended twice for a
    total of two and a half years. Implementation of the Changqiao Waterworks was delayed for
    about a year due to time-consuming government approval procedures.

    Although the overall project cost increased by 22% above the appraisal estimate, the total cost
    of the original components (except PC2) is some 29% below the SAR estimate. The reasons
    for this include: (a) the actual domestic inflation level during critical years when major civil
    works contracts were invited, moderated from the estimate given in the SAR; (b) downturn in
    construction opportunities in Shanghai area at the time, resulting in very keen bidders; (c) lack
    of interest by foreign bidders for ICB civil works contracts; and (d) the bidding process for
    major works contracts started somewhat later than anticipated in the SAR. While the contract
    prices for component PC2 were consistent with those for the other components, the scope of
    work was increased from the appraisal estimate to include pump stations and a tunnel under
    the Huangpu River to link up with the trunk sewer system being constructed under the SSP2
    project. The actual cost for component PC2, combined with the US$95.6 million cost of the
    additional components, resulted in an overall project cost of some 22% above the estimate in
    the SAR.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


    Overall, the project outputs are Highly Likely to be sustained. All the physical components
   have been successfully completed and are fully operational. SMG remains fully committed to
   the project objectives. A high quality of construction was maintained throughout. A number
   of awards for excellence of construction quality were received by the executing agencies. The
   additional sub-components (introduced in year 2000) are also in operation. Although SMWC
   and its successors has failed to meet their covenanted financial rate of return (7% for 2002) on



                                                  - 17 -

its average current net value of fixed assets in operation, water tariffs were increased several
times during the project (the latest change was in early 2002). The current rate of return is
around 1.2%, and revenues are adequate to cover operation and maintenance costs, with some
provisions for funding of future capital expenditures. The Shanghai Municipal Raw Water
Company (established in 1992), which operates the Da Qiao intake and other raw water
facilities in Shanghai, is very sound financially. This company reported a recent profit/cost
ratio of 45% from its raw water operations, based on a tariff of Yuan 0.46 fen/cubic meter
(Yuan 0.31 fen from SMWC and the balance from government subsidy). This total equates to
some 40% of the present average water tariff of SMWC. The SMWC has improved its
operational efficiency over the years, notably in 1999/2000 when the company was
reorganized into four regional, financially autonomous operating companies (see details in
para. 4.5 above). This resulted in: (a) improved service to customers and financial/operational
improvements in the respective operating company; (b) improved treated water quality with
reduced turbidity reduced from 1.0 to 0.2 NTU; and (c) a reduction in unaccounted-for water
from 25% to 17%.

The protection of the raw water quality at Da Qiao intake was discussed above (see para.
4.2). For long term sustainability of the water quality at Da Qiao, the Taipu pump station is
an important facility to augment the flow in Huangpu River with good quality water during
times of low flow. When operational, this station will augment the river flow by some
26Mm3/d (Da Qiao abstraction is 5.4Mm3/d). Construction is in progress, and completion is
anticipated expected in mid-2003. The pump station is expected to be fully operational by
late-2003.

The Songjiang Drainage Company (SDC), however, is currently operating in serious deficit
with a revenue/ cost ratio of about 0.2. The long term sustainability of the secondary
wastewater treatment and sludge treatment/disposal facility may be problematic, unless
continued funding commitments are obtained from the district government. Whist this facility
was built to a good quality of construction, is currently well maintained and producing a good
quality of treated effluent (averaging 9mg/l of SS, 9mg/l of BOD in 2002 compared with a
standard of 20mg/l in both cases), substantial revenue enhancements will be needed over the
years to maintain the viability of this company. Songjiang District Government needs to
address this issue as priority in the short term. This highlights the high cost of operating
secondary wastewater treatment facilities, not always fully appreciated by government
agencies.

The ongoing SSP2 project is another part of SMG's development program to improve
environmental conditions and management, and provide a safe environmental setting for the
long-term growth of Shanghai. The new SHUEP project will further support improvement of
the environmental situation in the Shanghai Municipality area, and will also explore innovative
mechanisms for financing urban environmental infrastructure investments, including
public/private partnership strategies, with the aim of further improving the quality of urban
life. Support for a stronger market orientation for municipal service pricing and innovative
financing of water/sanitation and solid waste services would also be provided. These
initiatives further strengthen SMG's strong commitment to sustain and expand the



                                              - 18 -

    environmental facilities built and set in operation under SEP. SMG's commitment to the
    sector is further typified by a recent mandate to ensure the hig quaity drinkable water supply
    by 2010.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

    As mentioned above, the completed physical investment facilities are all fully operational
    within the regular operations of the concerned utility and government departments. The Da
    Qiao intake is operated by the Shanghai Raw Water Company, which is responsible for all raw
    water facilities throughout Shanghai. Wastewater facilities provided under SEP are operated
    within the regular operations of SMSC in the municipal area, and SDC is responsible for the
    Songjiang Treatment Plant. The institutional development and training components of SEP,
    including operational skills training, have contributed substantially to the smooth operation of
    completed investment facilities (e.g. at Songjiang). All city utility agencies now have access
    to a common digitized base map for planning, operation and maintenance purposes. This is a
    major achievement. SMG is also developing innovative arrangements to finance utility
    operations including service/management contracts, solid waste consumer charges and the
    establishment of an independent mechanism for setting charges for water and wastewater
    services. These initiatives will be supported under the first phase of the new SHUEP project.

    The new monitoring laboratory near the Da Qiao intake is fully operational and incorporated
    into the SEMC regular operations. The outputs from the Huangpu River Basin Monitoring
    Information and Water Quality Modeling systems, and related staff training, have enabled
    SEMC and SEPB to take a lead role in these activities nationwide. Monitoring indicators
    were included in the SAR and the status is given in Annex 1. Such information was reported
    regularly by SEPO. The Huangpu River pollution control situation is also monitored in the
    ongoing SSP2 project, and will continue to be followed up by the Bank under the SHUEP
    project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    During the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project the Bank's performance is
    rated as highly satisfactory. During this period the Bank fielded a highly experienced team of
    senior sector specialists, very familiar with Shanghai and the environmental sector issues, who
    worked closely with the Government Project Office and its foreign and local consultant teams
    from identification through appraisal.

    Identification:
    Initially the project was identified by the government in the mid-1980's when the main
    components were formulated. The project design conformed with GOC and SMG sector
    policies and the Bank's CAS, focusing on the provision of adequate drinking water and
    control of the rapid deterioration of surface and groundwater quality in Shanghai. A strong
    collaborative relationship was developed with the project agencies, which were staffed with
    senior professionals. The Bank team drew on the experience gained from the implementation
    of sewerage projects from the SSP1Shanghai Sewerage Project (Credit 1177-CHA, Loan


                                                  - 19 -

    2794-CHA), under implementation at that time.

    Preparation:
    In addition to other relevant experiences in China, the Bank team was able to draw on
    experiences from other major environmental sector Bank-supported projects in the Asia
    region. Regular interventions by the Bank team enabled the preparation activities to proceed
    satisfactorily in accordance with an ambitious program determined by SMG. The work at this
    time was expedited through the timely appointment by SMG of foreign/local design review
    and advisory consultants and municipal engineering design bureaus. These professionals,
    working together with the Bank sector personnel, enabled this phase of the project to proceed
    smoothly. Long-term master plans were prepared and updated with Bank assistance,
    including for general municipal environmental management, solid waste management, and
    wastewater management. Extensive training of both financial and technical personnel was
    carried out, supported by UK (DfID). This bore fruit since key personnel was maintained
    throughout project implementation. Computer-based water quality modelling was introduced
    to Shanghai and applied during project preparation.

    Appraisal:
    The project was appraised in mid-1993. At that time, all procurement arrangements were
    finalized, contract packages determined and tender documents completed for 40% of the
    investment program. Thorough least cost analysis was applied by SMG with Bank support to
    justify the investment choices. This project was the first in China in the sector to use model
    bidding documents, which were tested during early stages of project implementation. The
    competitive bidding later generated significant cost savings. The preparations for technical
    assistance and training activities were well advanced at appraisal stage. Corporatization of
    the water and wastewater services had been prepared and were confirmed at appraisal.
    Bilateral funding was attracted from a number of sources to support technical assistance
    initiatives related to the project (e.g. Support Program for Urban Rehabilitation in Shanghai).
    Some time between project appraisal and Loan negotiation was needed and prudently used by
    SMG to make arrangements for increased water tariffs and to complete key training and
    institutional development activities.

7.2 Supervision:
    The performance of the Bank during project supervision is rated as satisfactory. During the
    life of the project the Bank assigned only two task managers, so a high degree of institutional
    memory and continuity was maintained throughout. Concerned sector staff continuity has
    also been largely maintained during supervision. A total of 19 Supervision missions were have
    been undertaken, averaging every five months. Based on the available information (in files
    and from Borrower discussions) it seems that the Bank staff were somewhat slow in giving
    clear guidance to SEPO concerning the possibility for an increase in civil works disbursement
    percentage (from the relatively low value of 28% established in the legal agreements). This
    issue was raised during Negotiations and identified as a potential problem early on during
    implementation when major civil works bid prices were much lower than the appraisal
    estimates due to a downturn in construction opportunities in Shanghai at the time and very
    keen contractors. As a result, it seemed likely that some US$35 million of the loan would be
    undisbursed. The subject figured in many mission discussions. The Government request to


                                                 - 20 -

    increase the percentage was eventually rejected due to on-compliance·with financial covenants
    by SMWC and Songjiang.

    In retrospect, the outcome of this issue could possibly have been determined more quickly,
    bearing in mind that SEPO was inexperienced with Bank lending procedures and the financial
    defaults were discussed many times (see Aide-Memoires). This would have allowed more
    time for preparation and construction of the additional sub-components, which were
    subsequently included in the project. Monitoring indicators were determined during project
    preparation but baseline parameters were not identified at that time. As a result SEPO
    experienced difficulty in applying the indicators to monitor project outputs. This issue was
    however addressed part way through the project. Environmental impact, land acquisitions,
    and resettlement were adequately reviewed during the supervision process.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. Continuity of task management and
    professional input were maintained throughout. A high degree of cooperation between SEPO
    and project agencies with Bank mission personnel was apparent throughout the project life.
    The project supervision did not include any formal mid-term review; this could usefully be
    included in future similar Bank-supported operations.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
During preparation, the performance of the Borrower is rated as highly satisfactory. From the
outset, the SMG commitment was high. It appointed a high level committee to oversee the
preparation of the project. Shanghai Environmental Protection Bureau (SEPB) was selected as
the coordinating agency and the Project Office (SEPO) was established from this bureau.
Sub-Project offices were set up by the concerned executing agencies, staffed by senior sector
professionals and supported by teams of local design consultants. SMG also engaged consultants
(funded by the United Kingdom Government) to provide Design Review and Advisory Services
during project preparation. This team was staffed by senior sector specialists who provided
critical review of options to ensure the provision of least-cost appropriate designs. The SMG
decision to relocate the wastewater outfall from Hangzhou Bay to the Changjiang Estuary was
articulated by the advisory services consultant. The timely appointment of consultants and
municipal design bureaus enabled the very ambitious SMG project preparation schedule to be
maintained, while providing high quality design outputs. Resettlement Action Plans and
Environmental Impact Assessment reports were an integral part of the preparation process,
together with financial and economic considerations. Although SEPO and the executing agencies
were largely inexperienced in Bank lending procedures, the combination of local and foreign
expertise worked well to enable the preparation of the project to proceed smoothly through
appraisal. This process was expedited by regular interventions by Bank missions. The project
was ready for implementation at Loan effectiveness.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    The Government implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. Throughout, the
    government remained fully committed to its sector policies and the importance attached to
    environmental protection. This is demonstrated through its continued emphasis on



                                                - 21 -

    environmental improvements citywide. The recent marked improvement of Suzhou Creek and
    its environs also typifies this commitment. The project has contributed significantly to the
    provision of improved quality of drinking water, wastewater disposal, sanitation, and solid
    waste management to a population of about 10 million people across the metropolitan area.

    Revenue generation by public service entities is always a difficult area for governments. Often
    it is difficult to strike a balance between financial interest and perceived social service. Whilst
    SMG has moved significantly towards addressing the actions covenanted in the legal
    agreements, this company has not yet met its financial target of seven percent rate of return.
    Likewise Songjiang Drainage Company has been unable to achieve its covenanted financial
    objective. However, SMG has carried out a number of important measures both in terms of
    tariff adjustments and institutional changes, designed to improve operational efficiency and
    provide better service to the consumers. The SMWC water tariffs were raised three times
    during the life of the project (from 0.48 Yuan/cubic meter in 1995 to 1.03 Yuancubic/cubic
    meter in 2002). In 2000, SMG established the Shanghai Water Authority (SWA) with
    responsibility for overall planning and coordination of all water sector policies and
    interventions throughout Shanghai Municipality (see Section 4.5). Setting up four operating
    water companies were set up and a recent semi-privatization of the Pudong Water Company
    are important initiatives in this respect.

    SEPO and the Sub-Project offices were maintained with adequate numbers of properly
    qualified staff. Continuity of SEPO management and staff was maintained throughout the
    project. Progress reports were comprehensive and timely. Technical assistance and training
    were very important component of the project. Wide-ranging support programs were
    implemented (see Annex 1). Resulting from the project, SEMC now has a river modeling
    system and a Huangpu River Pollution Monitoring tool, which have enabled this organization
    to provide national leadership. Digitized mapping is available to all utility agencies in
    Shanghai for planning and operational purposes. Sector professional and operating staff have
    received skills upgrading to improve operational efficiency.

    Environmental impact assessment and resettlement action plans were carried out for all
    original and supplementary components in accordance with the Borrower's procedures and
    the Bank's requirements. Compliance was reviewed periodically during supervision and the
    concerned reports are in the project files. A recent resettlement evaluation by an independent
    external agency is attached as Annex 9.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
    The implementing agencies involved in the project are set out for each component in paras.
    3.4, 3.5 and 5.3 above. The performance of all the implementing agencies is rated highly
    satisfactory. SMWC implemented the dominant component (PC1 Improved Drinking Water
    Quality Protection), representing some 65 percent of overall project cost. This component
    was completed and commenced operation in 1998 (about one year behind the original
    schedule). Construction quality on all components was very good throughout and several
    awards were received for excellence of construction quality. Prudent and timely engagement
    of consultant teams (foreign and local) to assist in implementation also enabled the work to
    proceed satisfactorily. The physical operation of completed facilities is highly satisfactory and


                                                  - 22 -

    meets the project objectives. However, despite recent tariff enhancements authorized by
    SMG, the SMWC and SDC are yet unable to meet the financial covenants agreed at
    Negotiations of the project. Further action is still required. However, SMG continues to
    explore alternative financing mechanisms to support utility operations, including public/private
    partnerships in the water/wastewater management and operations, and is considering setting
    up an independent regulatory authority to set tariffs. These initiatives are supported under the
    new SHUEP project.

    Resettlement monitoring was undertaken by an external agency using questionnaires and
    interviews of affected people using random sampling. Questionnaires were distributed to both
    affected enterprises and households, followed up by direct interviews. Collected information
    was analyzed in terms of impact and remedies. For details, see attached Summary of External
    Monitoring and Evaluation for Resettlement.

    Technical assistance and staff training (about 2.8% of total project cost, and 8% of the Bank
    loan) were fully utilized in SEP. The outputs from these programs have been substantial, as
    described earlier. SEPO provided timely and comprehensive progress reports and audit
    statements throughout the project. Procurement was carried out efficiently in accordance
    with Bank guidelines, although some delays were experienced due to central government
    monitoring procedures for ICB goods contracts (this activity was not anticipated at appraisal).
    Monitoring indicators were given in the SAR but baseline data was not established at that
    time. As a result SEPO experienced some initial difficulty in applying the indicators. This
    was overcome during subsequent mission discussions.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    Apart from the authorities having met the spirit of the financial covenants rather than the letter
    of the same for SMWC and SDC, the project has been completed very successfully, due to the
    continued high level of commitment by SMG to halt the environmental degradation across the
    city, and to improve the quality of life of the people of Shanghai. This commitment is
    confirmed through the ongoing SSP2 and the new SHUEP projects. The Borrower's overall
    performance is therefore rated as fully satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

   l Continuity and top quality of key personnel from both Bank and Borrower sides are
        important to ensure a successful project. This was achieved very well in SEP.
   l Appropriate monitoring indicators are an important means of assessing project
        achievements. While these were provided in the SAR, it is important that all base line data
        be determined at appraisal, and agreed between the Bank and the Borrower. Otherwise
        the project agencies may experience difficulty in properly applying the indicators to
        monitor project outcome and outputs.
   l The high operational costs associated with secondary wastewater treatment (as at
        Songjiang) and sludge disposal, compared with preliminary or primary treatment, are not
        always appreciated by government and implementing agencies. For long-term
        sustainability of secondary wastewater facilities, it is important that wastewater tariffs
        adequately provide sufficient revenue to meet these operational costs and to ensure



                                                 - 23 -

        sustainable operations. Costs may also be reduced with further technical refinements, in
        particular regarding energy efficiency.
    l Institutional strengthening of government and project executing agencies is often an
        important component in many Bank supported environmental and urban development
        projects. SEP included a wide-ranging program of technical assistance, studies and
        training amounting to about 2.8% of the total project cost (about 8% of the Bank loan).
        In SEP this program was very successful and was utilized with wide-ranging benefits, as
        described above. This sets a good precedent for future projects.
    l For political and social reasons, governments are often reluctant to sanction large
        increases in water and wastewater user charges, preferring to raise charges by small
        increments. SEP was no exception. SMWC and SDC remained in substantial
        non-compliance with financial targets throughout the project life. This highlights the need
        for a different approach such as the establishment of a more independent regulatory
        authority with power to review and approve tariffs.
    l Public/private partnerships for water supply and wastewater operations, possibly through
        build-operate-transfer (BOT) or concession arrangements, is already applied and
        acknowledged by SMG for future system improvements and operational efficiency. This
        strategy is further supported in SMG's development program supported by the recently
        approved SHUEP project.
    l The impact of Central Government monitoring procedures for ICB goods contracts was
        not adequately identified at appraisal, so implementation of SEP was delayed to some
        extent. Future project schedules should take these internal procedures into account.
    l It is important that Project Office staff be kept abreast of Bank policies and procedures for
        clarity and to avoid delays in processing of Borrower requests for changes in legal
        agreements.
    l Technical innovations in SEP included the use of fiberglass pipes for water supply,
        ceramic pump bearings, and lining of sewer pipes to reduce infiltration. The experience
        with the use of new materials should be widely disseminated by SMG so that potential
        benefits (and pitfalls) may be available for other projects and Borrower agencies in the
        future.
    l SEP demonstrated the viability and effective application of soft ground tunneling
        technology. The SSPII project is now benefiting from this expertise through contractors.
    l Three lessons drawn from the external resettlement monitoring are: (a) the importance of
        coordinating road plans and water/wastewater plans to ensure, for example, that conveyor
        alignments match the road network plans; (b) the need to ensure replenishment of
        sufficient top soil on borrowed land to allow adequate recultivation and restoration of
        livelihoods; and (c) the importance of skills training for resettled persons, as appropriate,
        to improve their opportunities to find new jobs.
    l More emphasis on ICB turn-key contracts in future similar projects may encourage
        foreign/local joint venture firms to participate, with potentially stronger construction
        management skills.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See SMG Project Implementation Assessment Report attached as Annex 8



                                                 - 24 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                             - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Provide Safe Drinking Water                  Not defined                                 8-10 million across Shanghai Metropolitan
Number of persons benefiting                                                             Area.

Identify and control sources of Pollution.
Huangpu Water Quality Protection
Water abstracted for potable supply to meet  100% of time from January, 2000.            Complying.
Class III standard for normal flow conditions
and Class II for critical parameters.
Chemicals causing taste and health
problems not detectable, except under
exceptional flow conditions.                 100% of time from January, 2000.            Complying.
Water quality in SMWC to comply with
Chinese Drinking Water Standard.
Concentration of ammonia in raw water        100% of time from January 2000.             Complying.
reduced by 50%.

                                             95% of time from January 1999.              Average 53% reduction (1998-2002 data)
Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution
Control.
Pollution control at key point sources.      Discharge from 33 priority factories        131 factory discharges intercepted; 95% of
                                             intercepted. Songjiang municipal/industrial industrial effluent. Songjiang secondary
                                             wastewater intercepted.                     wastewater treatment facility completed.
Pollution concentration of ammonia at Da     100% of time from January 2000 onwards.     Excellence from Class III reduced by 33%
Qiao reduced by up to one-third.                                                         (1998-2002 data)
Industry derived organic chemicals removed   100% of time from January 2000 onwards.     No significant concentrations.
from water abstracted for supply


Expanded Water Quality Monitoring            Improved capacity of SEMC.
                                                                                         Significantly improved capacity through
                                                                                         training and provision of computer based
                                                                                         monitoring technology.

Improve municipal solid waste and nightsoil  Improve municipal solid waste and nightsoil Safe disposal increased from 55% before
management                                   management                                  project to 75% after project.
Safe disposal of municipal solid waste.      Safe disposal of municipal solid waste.

Phase out nightsoil disposal system.         Phase out nightsoil disposal system.        Virtually totally eliminated.
                                                                                         Very successful comprehensive program
                                                                                         fully implemented.
Improve municipal, environmental and utility Support through technical assistance,
management and finances.                     studies and training.                       Water and wastewater sector totally
                                                                                         reorganized by SMG. Shanghai Water
                                                                                         Authority established to provide institutional
                                                                                         leadership in China. Other cities now
                                                                                         following.



    Note: Outcome indicators were not completely defined in the SAR. In this annex the outcome indicators are
    related to the specific objectives of the project.
Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
PC1 Drinking Water Quality Protection

Da Qiao intake, pump and conveyor system
Nanshi waterworks improvement                5.4 Mm3/d                                   5.4 Mm3/d

Yangshupu waterworks improvement             0.95 Mm3/d                                  0.95 Mm3/d




                                                               - 26 -

Changqiao waterworks improvement            1.4 Mm3/                                   1.4 Mm3/d
                                                                                       0.6 Mm3/d & sludge disposal works.
Songjiang water supply                      Not appraised.
                                                                                       0.15 Mm3/d
                                            Not appraised.
PC2. Upper Huangpu Pollution Control

In factory pre-treatment at prioritized
industries.                                 33 priority industries                     11 factories moved or closed, 22
                                                                                       treated.Total of 131 industries dealt with,
                                                                                       covering 95% of industrial effluent.
Wujing/Minhang wastewater conveyor                                                     75 km. Conveyor, pump stations and siphon
system.                                     75 km. Length of conveyor.                 crossing under Huangpu River.
                                                                                       256,000 m3/d capacity provided.
Interception of separate and combined
discharges.                                 Not appraised.
                                                                                       7 km sewer & 4 pump stations.
Rehabilitation of South Trunk Sewer.
                                            Not appraised.
Rehabilitation of existing wastewater                                                  4 plants rehabilitated.
treatment plants.
                                            Not appraised.


PC3. Songjiang Wastewater Pollution
Control.

Songjiang conveyors and pump systems.       22.1 km.                                   36.6 km.

Songjiang wastewater treatment plant.
                                            63,000 m3/d.                               63,000 m3/d.


PC4. Water Quality Monitoring.

Water quality laboratory, equipment,        Laboratory, equipment, management          Laboratory, equipment, management
management systems, vehicles and boats.     systems, 2 boats, and 2 vehicles.          systems, 3 boats and 3 vehicles.


PC5. Municipal Solid Waste and Nightsoil
Management.

Sanlingtang transfer facility               147,000 tonnes.                            147,000 tonnes.

Laogang landfill and equipment.             Upgrading.                                 not done.

Temporary Dumps and Upgrade docks &         4-6 docks.                                 Not done.
equipment.

Jiangzhen Landfill, treatment, wells.       1.2 million tonnes.                        1.2 million tonnes.
                                            4750 tonnes/d.
Sanlingtang equipment.
                                            70 flat bed trucks.                        Not provided.
Tipping trucks and Dump equipment.
                                            4 container cranes, 16 tipping trucks, 2   4 container cranes, 16 tipping trucks, 2
                                            compactors, 1 mobile compositor.           compactors, 1 mobile compositor.
Barge equipment.                            Modify 36 barges, provide 108 new barges.  36 barges modified, 108 new barges
                                            828 17 m3 containers.                      provided.
Container equipment.                                                                   828 17 m3 containers.
                                            1000 and 50.
Steel/plastic bins and lifting equipment.                                              1000 and 50.

Nightsoil equipment and vehicles            32.
                                                                                       32.
PC6. Technical Assistance, Project
Management and Training.

Technical assistance                        15 technical assistance and study programs
                                                                                       All completed satisfactorily, except Future




                                                                - 27 -

                                    Construction management services         Project Preparation.
Project management
                                    5 programs identified in SAR.            All as defined in SAR.
Training.
                                                                             All completed satisfactorily, 140 person
                                                                             months of training provided.

1End of project
Annex 1b: Operational Performance Indicators

                  Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company (SMWC)

Indicator                 Unit         1995      1996       1997    1998   1999     2000      2001       2002
Population served         1000         7,640     7,920        8,210   8,360    8,500     8,650       8,800
                                       8,950
Percentage served         %            100       100          100     100     100         100        100
                                       100
Operational               Staff/1000   1.11      0.90         0.98    1.06    1.14        1.24       1.11
efficiency ratio          Customers    1.09
Annual production         Mm3/yr.      1,459     1,505        1,484   1,514    1,489      1,500      1,508
                                       1,497
Un-accounted for          % of         16        14           8       6         7          18         20
Water                     productio    18
                          n
Revenue generated         Million      1,071      1,253       1,172   1,644      1,570      1,728       1,770
(subsidy + tariff)        Yuan/yr.     1,894
Rate of return            % Target     2          3            4       5         6           7             7
                             Actual    7
                                       0.85       -3.2        -23.3   -3.1    0.0            0.2        0.8
                                       1.2
Water tariff-Domestic     Yuan/m3      0.48       0.48        0.68    0.68    0.88           0.88       0.88
                                       1.03
Water                     Yuan/m3      0.68       0.68        0.90    0.90      1.10         1.10      1.10
tariff-Non-domestic                    1.30


                  Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company

Indicator                  Unit         1995      1996       1997   1998   1999      2000      2001
                                        2002
Population served          1000         Information not available
Percentage served          %            Information not available.
Operational                Staff/1000   Information not available.
efficiency ratio           Customers
Revenue generation/        Target       Not less than 1.0
Operation expenses +debt   Actual       1.1           1.07     0.84     0.64      0.92         1.11
Service(or depreciation)                1.08     1.08
Debt service ratio         Target      Not less than 1.3.
Revenue /Debt              Actual      2.75       3.07         3.72     4.17        3.95       4.28        2.72
                                       2.72
Wastewater tariff-Domestic Yuan/m3.               0.12          0.12    0.24        0.45       0.45
                                        0.70     0.70
Wastewater tariff          Yuan/m3     0.14       0.34         0.34     0.37        0.45       0.45




                                                      - 28 -

Non-domestic                         0.70   0.70


                  Songjiang Drainage Company

Indicator                  Unit       1995     1996    1997  1998  1999   2000  2001
                                      2002
Population served          1000       100       100     130    150   180     200   200
                                      220
Percentage served          %          80         80     80     95     95      95    95
                                      95
Operational                Staff/1000 0.50      0.50    0.50   0.43  0.44    0.41  0.41
efficiency ratio           Customers  0.40
Revenue generation/        Target     Not less than 1.0
Operation expenses +debt   Actual     0.85      0.54     0.36  0.16   0.14    0.16  0.21
Service(or depreciation)              0.21
Debt service ratio         Target    Not less than 1.3.
Revenue /Debt              Actual    3.56       1.04    0.51   0.18    0.15    0.18   0.26
                                     0.26
Wastewater tariff-Domestic Yuan/m3.   0.10       0.10   0.10   0.10    0.22    0.22   0.40
                                      0.70
Wastewater tariff          Yuan/m3   0.89        0.89    0.89  0.89     0.92   0.92   1.00
Non-domestic                         1.00




                                                 - 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal        Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                  Estimate           Estimate           Appraisal
                        Component                                US$ million       US$ million
PC 1. Drinking Water Quality Protection ( 1/                       226.80               263.60                 90
PC2. Upper Huangu Pollution Control                                 47.70               225.20                349
PC3. Songjiang Pollution Control                                    29.10                32.00                 82
PC4. Water Quality Monitoring                                        3.90                 4.10                 87
PC5. Solid Waste/Nightsoil Management                               32.80                25.00                 57
PC6. TA, Training, Studies       (2/                                10.80                10.80                 84

Total Baseline Cost                                                351.10               560.70
  Physical Contingencies                                            40.10
  Price Contingencies                                               65.40
                          Total Project Costs                      456.60               560.70
                   Total Financing Required                        456.60               560.70
Note:
1/      Excludes cost of US$85.8 million for Nanshi waterworks rehabilitation, of which US$63.8 million from
SMG and US$22 million from the Government of France.
2/      Excludes grant of Sterling Pounds 0.5 million from the Government of United Kingdom.



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                            1
                                                    Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB                NCB                   2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                        Other
1. Works                             210.00             45.30             0.00            16.90            272.20
                                     (58.90)            (12.60)         (0.00)            (0.00)           (71.50)
2. Goods                              68.30              1.80             0.00            34.10            104.20
                                     (68.30)            (1.80)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (70.10)
3. Services                           0.00               0.00            18.70            46.50            65.20
Institutional Development,           (0.00)             (0.00)          (18.40)           (0.00)           (18.40)
Studies, Training, Support
4. Land acquisition                   0.00               0.00             0.00            15.00            15.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00               0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00               0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                             278.30             47.10            18.70            112.50           456.60
                                    (127.20)            (14.40)         (18.40)           (0.00)          (160.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                            1
                                                    Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB                NCB                             N.B.F.        Total Cost



                                                     - 30 -

                                                                                     2
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                137.40            108.80              0.00            65.40             311.60
                                          (38.40)           (22.20)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (60.60)
  2. Goods                                 77.10              2.90                              71.40             151.40
                                          (75.40)            (2.00)              ()             (0.00)           (77.40)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00             17.80            24.20              42.00
  Institutional Development,              (0.00)             (0.00)           (17.80)           (0.00)           (17.80)
  Studies, Training, Support
  4. Land acquisition                      0.00               0.00              0.00            55.70              55.70
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
      Total                               214.50            111.70             17.80           216.70             560.70
                                         (113.80)           (24.20)           (17.80)           (0.00)          (155.80)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting service of contracted staff of the
      project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Source; Type of Funds (Foreign, Local, Total) (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                     Percentage of Appraisal
Source; Type of Funds              Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
(Foreign, Local, Total)
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank        Govt.       CoF.      Bank      Govt.   CoF.
Shanghai Municipality         35.30        261.30      296.60        0.00       404.90      404.90      0.0      155.0   136.5
World Bank                    160.00        0.00       160.00       153.10        2.70      155.80      95.7       0.0    97.4
Co.Financing                   0.00         0.00         0.00                                           0.0        0.0    0.0
Total (1/                     195.30       261.30      456.60       153.10      407.60      560.70      78.4     156.0   122.8

  1/     Excludes cost of US$85.8 million for Nanshi waterworks rehabilitation, of which US$63.8 million from
  SMG and US$22 million from Govt. of France; and grant of Sterling Pounds 0.5 million from Govt. of United
  Kingdom.




                                                          - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


      The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was not calculated at appraisal. The reasons for this
approach are properly justified in the Staff Appraisal Report (Para.6 and Annex 17 refer).




                                               - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              January 1992            12     TM, 2 Sanitary Engineers,

                                             1 GIS Specialist,

                                             1 Financial Analyst,

                                             1 Environmental Engineer,

                                             1 Operations Assistant, 1 Solid

                                             Waste Specialist, 1 Chemical
                                             Engineer, 1 Economist, 1

                                             Institutional Specialist, 1

                                             Operations Officer


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              June/July 1993          12     2 Sanitary Engineers, 1

                                             GIS Specialist, 1 Environ

                                             Engineer, 1 Financial
                                             Analyst,

                                             1 Operations Assistant, 1
                                             Solid

                                             Waste Specialist, 1 Chemical

                                             Engineer, 1 Economist, 1

                                             Institutional Specialist, 1

                                             Operations Officer. 1
                                             Institutional Resettlement
                                             Officer

              January 1994              7    2 Sanitary Engineers, 1 Counsel,

                                             1 Disbursement Officer, 1

                                             Economist, 1 Financial Analyst,

                                             1 Institutional Specialist



                                              - 33 -

Supervision

           07/19/1994    4 Task Manager, 1 Financial           S
                           Analyst, 1 Sanitary Engineer,

                           1 Institutional Resettlement Off.
           02/20/1995    4 TM, 1 Financial Analyst, 1          S
                           Sanitary
                           Engineer, 1 Inst. Resettlement
                           Officer
           02/10/1996    5 TM, 1 GIS (Cons), 1 Finance         S     S
                           (Cons)
                           1 Engineer (Cons), 1 Solid
                           Waste/Env.

                           (Cons)
           07/10/1996    4 TM, 1 GIS (Cons) 1Finance           S     S
                           (Cons)
                           1 Engineer (Cons)
           05/15/1997    6 TM, 1 Finance (Cons), 1             S     S
                           Engineer
                           (Cons), 1 Env. Monitoring
                           (Cons),

                           1 GIS (Cons), 1 Institutional
                           (Cons)
           02/22/1998    5 1TM/Engineer, 1 Finance, 1 Inst.    S     S
                           Specialist, 1 Environment, 1
                           Procurement
           04/05/2000    6 1 Prin. Municipal Eng., 1 Urban     S     S
                           Economist, 1 Financial Spec., 1
                           Urban Consultant, 1 Urban
                           Spec.,
                           1 Financial Analyst
           07/20/2000    2 1 Urban Spec., 1 Financial          S     HS
                           Analyst
           12/07/2001    4 TTL, 1 Finance/Economic,            S     HS
                           1 Municipal Engineer,
                           1 Institutional Specialist
           03/14/2002    5 TTL, 1 Financial Spec., 1           S     HS
                           Institutional Spec., 1 Municipal
                           Engineer, 1 Financial Inst.
           09/2002       8 TTL, 1 Financial Analyst,      1    S     S
                           Municipal Engineer, 1 Inst.
                           Specialist, 1 Urban Specialist,
                           1 Social Devep., 1 Procurement,
                           1 Disbursement

ICR
           01/2003       6 TTL, 1 Financial Analyst;           HS    S
                           2 Municipal Engineers;
                           1 Institutional Specialist;
                           1 Urban Environment



                           - 34 -

                                                 Specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                137.5                          440.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      51.1                          184.3
  Supervision                               126.9                          609.0
  ICR                                          6.0                          25.0
  Total                                     321.5                        1,258.7
Costs incurred in FY99 and before were increased by 15% to take into account pre-SAP accounting
principles.




                                                 - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
         Involuntary resettlement
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA
Project management




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  Staff Appraisal Report No. 12386-CHA
  Borrower's Implementation Assessment Report dated March 2003.
  Summary of External Monitoring and Evaluation of Resettlement dated March 2003.
  ICR Aide Memoire dated February 2003.




                                        - 38 -

Additional Annex 8.        Borrower's Implementation Assessment Report


                   IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT REPORT OF

                         SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT


                                             March 2003

The Shanghai Environment Project (SEP) (Loan 3711-CHA) comprises financial and policy
initiatives supporting planning and management reforms, and an investment programme of
environmentally oriented capital works and related institutional strengthening.            The loan
agreement of $160 million with the World Bank was signed in June 1994 and came into effect in
October that year till the end of June 2000. Afterwards, the request for revising the loan closing
was raised twice, and four supplementary projects were added to use the remaining loan. Finally,
the project was implemented till the end of 2002 though there is some work in the supplementary
projects still left behind the deadline time.

Objectives and Success

1.      The principal objective of the SEP is to provide a sustainable environment for the
long-term economic and social development of Shanghai, whilst providing a competitive
framework for industrial growth. In particular, the project would focus on ensuring an adequate
supply of potable water and halting the rapid deterioration of surface and groundwater quality in
Shanghai. Specific objectives of the project are to:

a)      provide safe drinking water;
b)      identify and control sources of pollution;
c)      expand water quality monitoring;
d)      improve municipal solid waste and nightsoil management;
e)      improve municipal, environmental and utility management and finances; and
f)      support training, feasibility studies, and future investment project preparation.

2.      The objectives of the project all contribute to protecting the Huangpu River and its
tributaries, the principal source of water used by Shanghai citizens and industry. Unacceptable
water quality at original intakes necessitated the relocation of the main municipal water intake.
The new intake itself would soon become unusable were not a number of complementary
investments undertaken to protect it. These included sewerage systems in Wujing and Minhang
neighbourhoods of Minhang district and in the Capital Town of Songjiang district, the closest
areas to the new intake site, to divert and treat wastewater flows; improved handling of nightsoil
and municipal solid waste to end direct dumping in the river and leaching from landfills; expanded
water quality monitoring to allow more rapid response to impending problems; and institutional
strengthening to provide municipal managers with the information and skills needed to sustain
improved water quality.



                                                  - 39 -

3.      The investment programme comprised the following project components (PCs), which
description and success are given below.

4.      PC1 - Drinking Water Quality Protection. The construction of a major raw water
supply system for the Shanghai Municipality included an intake on the Huangpu River at Daqiao
(5.4 Mm3/d capacity), pumping stations, multiple-barrel low pressure supply main (27.2 km
multiple barrel culverts varying from 3.25 m 3.75 m to 2.2 m diameter), surge protection,
telemetry and controls, and selected improvements to the existing treatment facilities such as
chlorine dosing device, sludge dewatering equipment and etc. at Yangshupu and Changqiao
Water Works, and distribution network.

5.      The implementing agency of PC1 was Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company
(SMWC). Its construction commenced in October 1994 and its main body completed in the end
of 1997. Since the Daqiao pump station was put into operation in December 1998, the raw water
with higher quality has started to feed the individual water works. As a result, the tap water
produced by the water works fed by this new water intake has been improved with turbidity
around 0.2 NTU and chemical dosing reduced by 50%. The treated water now has a better taste
than before. It proves the good environmental and social effectiveness of SEP. A central control
system has been established to supervise and regulate the water supply at all the pump stations
and water works.

6.      Songjiang Northern Water Supply was an additional sub-component to construct a water
intake pump station at Xie Tang of the Upper Huangpu. The work included 42.5 km long water
conveyor with maximum size of 1,200 mm and minimum size of 300 mm in diameter, and a
boosting pump station of 115,000 m3/d in capacity to supply seven waterworks in five townships
in the northern Songjiang District. The design capacity of the raw water supply is 160,000 m3/d
for servicing 200,000 inhabitants.

7.      The Songjiang Northern Water Supply sub-component was implemented by Songjiang
District Government. The construction of its intake pump station and conveyor commenced in
December 1998 and in December 1999 respectively. In September 2000, the main body of the
sub-component was put into commissioning, and till May 2002 the construction of the whole
sub-component was completed and put into operation in the next month. Since then, the quality
of the water produced by those seven waterworks has been obviously improved, e.g., the turbidity
of treated water has reduced from 3 NTU to no greater than 1 NTU whilst the doses of chlorine
and alum dropping 15% to 30%. Delivery of nearly 110,000 m3/d of raw water in 2000 and
increasing up to 136,000 m3/d in 2002 was reached.

8.      One of supplementary sub-components in PC1 by using undisbursed portion of loan is
Renovation of Changqiao Waterworks. The objective of this sub-component is to rehabilitate the
older parts of the existing treatment works and generally to upgrade the works. It includes
reconstruction of sedimentation tanks, filters, pump houses and sludge recovery facilities so that
they can efficiently and reliably provide up to 1.6 million m3/d of potable water for domestic and
industrial users in the western area of Shanghai.



                                                - 40 -

9.      The implementing agency of this supplementary sub-component is also the SMWC. Its
reconstruction work was completed except for water intake, piping & de-sludge equipment. The
works are under operation with a flow rate of about 600,000 m3/day apart from the sludge
treatment facility. The uncompleted work by 31 December 2002, closing date of the SEP, would
be paid out by local resources.

10.     PC2 - Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution Control. To protect and improve the
water quality at the new Daqiao intake and conveyor system, this component included a
programme to control industrial pollution in the Upper Huangpu catchment and to intercept the
wastewater flow being discharged into the Huangpu River in Wujing and Minhang
neighbourhoods, the immediate downstream of the new intake.

11.     In the industrial pollution control programme, 33 industrial enterprises had been prioritised
during preparation of the SEP as major industrial polluters to take measures for compliance with
discharge standards. This programme was not financed under the SEP. The identified 33
factories accounted for some 75% of industrial pollution and were required to undertake on-site
measures to control their pollution discharges. Among those factories, 10 factories were closed
or relocated, and treatment facilities were provided at the other 22 ones by 1998.

12.     The interception scheme was firstly planned to divert the water pollution loads to
Hangzhou Bay in the south as shown on the Wastewater Master Plan at that time. As it was
hardly to get a consensus with the neighbouring province by convincing that the effluent discharge
would not bring about an unacceptable consequence to upset the aquatic lives in Hangzhou Bay,
any other relevant alternatives had to be worked out. Through an expert brainstorm, it was found
that a turnabout of the intercepted sewage diversion northward could be one of the solutions. Its
feasibility study and environmental assessment have shown that this option was acceptable. The
adopted option comprised the construction of wastewater conveyance system known as the
Northern Sewer for the Wujing and Minhang areas in the Upper Huangpu catchment, including
the provision of secondary and tertiary connecting sewers totalling 75 km in length. The collected
wastewater would then be conveyed to Bailong Gang at Changjiang estuary through connecting
to the SSPII mains for submerged discharge after a preliminary treatment. Thus, the threat of
wastewater discharge in the service area of the Northern Sewer to the water quality of the Upper
Huangpu could be alleviated.

13.     Its implementing agency was Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company (SMSC). The
engineering facilities of the Northern Sewer were put into operation in the end of 1999. The
statistics up to June of 2002 show that the intercepted wastewater flows has reached 340,000
m3/d.

14.     There are other three ones of the supplementary sub-components in PC2 by using
undisbursed portion of loan:

(a)     Interception and Separation of Combined Storm and Foul Discharges in City Areas,
including rehabilitation of separate systems, interception of wastewater flows from storm water



                                                 - 41 -

pump stations, and providing and installing equipment at 18 pump stations;

(b)     Rehabilitation of South Trunk Sewer and Pump Stations, including replacement and
rehabilitation of 8.3 km sewers, 2 pump stations and 4 link sewer stations; and

(c)     Rehabilitation of Wastewater Treatment Plants, including rehabilitation of 5 existing
wastewater treatment plants.

    All those supplementary sub-components are to restore the capacity of sewerage system so as
    to reduce the pollution loads to the watercourses. Their implementing agency is also SMSC.

15.     Up to now, the progresses of those three supplementary sub-components are as follows:

(a)     has substantially completed the interception of wastewater flows from storm water pump
stations, and the site of one pump station has been pending due to a conflict with the alignment of
a new ring road;

(b)     has completed 7 km sewers and 4 pump stations; and

(c)     has completed the rehabilitation of four plants.

    The outstanding work by 31 December 2002 would be financed from local resources.

16.     PC3 - Songjiang Wastewater Pollution Control. To improve the water quality at the
Daqiao intake, this component comprised the expansion of domestic and industrial wastewater
collection and treatment facilities in the capital town of Songjiang district including a wastewater
treatment plant and provision for system connections. The works encompassed trunk conveyance
system extensions, link sewers and connection totalling 36.6 km including interception of dry
weather flows in existing combined sewerage system, and nightsoil from communal facilities;
pumping stations, equipment and electrical connections of 21,500 m3/d total capacity;
refurbishment of existing wastewater treatment works to provide effective treatment for 18,000
m3/d of mixing wastewater; and wastewater treatment extension works to provide effective
treatment for 45,000 m3/d of mixing wastewater. The process includes primary and secondary
sedimentation, aeration and sludge digestion (one stream only).

17.     The implementing agency of Songjiang Wastewater Pollution Control component was
Songjiang Wastewater Treatment Plant (SWWTP), now renamed as Songjiang Drainage
Company (SDC). Its engineering construction commenced in June 1996, and the main body
completed and started commissioning in April 2001. Since the operation of the new wastewater
treatment facilities, the effluent strength has become stably lower than before comparatively, so as
to result in the reduction of pollution loading into the Upper Huangpu.

18.     PC4 - Pollution Sources and Water Quality Monitoring. A water quality monitoring
laboratory at the new water supply intake together with associated sampling and analytical
equipment is to monitor water quality in the Upper Huangpu catchment.



                                                  - 42 -

19.     Its implementing agency was Shanghai Environmental Monitoring Centre (SEMC). The
new laboratory equipped with a wide range of analytical instrumentation as well as three vessels
and four vehicles facilitates both the current routine monitoring activities and permits the analysis
of a range of specific micropollutants. The latter ones are essential in view of the industrial nature
of the Huangpu River that serves both as a potable water source and a receiving water body for
industrial wastewater discharges, some of which may contain chemicals of concern in terms of
quality of potable water. Monitoring data management has been enhanced by the provision of
LIMS (laboratory information management systems).

20.     PC5 ­ Municipal Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management. This project component
was to alleviate the environmental pollution and health risks associated with the present municipal
solid waste and nightsoil management practices; and to enhance the efficiency and productivity of
equipment and manpower of the sanitation department. This investment programme was to give
measures for long term environmental improvements, such as upgrading the landfills, closing
down or controlling the landfill operations at the numerous temporary dumps, and developing
new treatment and disposal facilities for municipal and non-hazardous industrial solid wastes. All
the works were not Bank-financed.

21.     The implementing agency of this project component was Shanghai Environmental
Sanitation Administration Bureau (SESAB). Since its implementation, the rate of controlled
disposal of municipal solid waste has increased from about 41% to about 72%, and the nightsoil
system has been almost 100% phased out. Waste disposal in controlled landfills has increased
from about 5,000 t/d to 6,500 t/d.

22.     PC6 ­ Institutional Strengthening through Technical Assistance and Training. To
improve municipal, environmental and utility management and finances, and to support training,
feasibility studies, and future investment project preparation, this component comprised 21
sub-components including engineering supervision; studies on water supply distribution analysis,
support for management systems such as information system, financial accounting, water quality
forecasting and information systems, solid waste management, strategic planning and geographic
information systems, and etc.; and training for strengthening institutional capacities. All the above
sub-components were interlinked to address the principal objective of the project and designed to
respond to their specific objectives. About 140 person-months of training were provided to
improve skill levels of government sector technical specialists and managers.

23.     The SEP has greatly contributed to safeguarding the municipal water intake and improving
the capacities of environmental management in Shanghai. As a result, some foreign country
governments were attracted to offer additional grant funds to support Shanghai, such as the
Support Programme for Urban Rehabilitation of Shanghai (SPURS) and the TA programme of
Water Supply Master Plan by British government, the Rehabilitation of Nanshi Water Treatment
Plant by French government.

24.     Water quality of the Huangpu River at Daqiao shows better than that at Linjiang. From a
statistic analysis, in the period before and after commissioning of the Daqiao intake, i.e., 1991 to



                                                  - 43 -

1997 and 1998 to 2002 respectively, the situation of water quality of the Huangpu River, e.g.,
ammonia nitrogen concentration as a typical parameter, presents such a trend: (a) in Dianshan
Lake, the water quality becomes worse; (b) the other headwaters, i.e., Taipu Canal, Yuanxie Jing
and Damao Gang, are more or less improved; (c) both at Daqiao and Linjiang the water quality is
improved, but still that at Linjiang is inferior; (d) at Nanshi Waterworks, the water quality is the
worst one among the others but kept almost unchanged. It reveals that the water body at Daqiao
faces less threat of pollution, the pollution control programme starts showing its effectiveness,
and all the components of the project are worthwhile to implement.

25.     For the Huangpu River is a tidal influenced system, the river flow is reversible back and
forth along the way to make the water well mixed but obstructed for its free disgorging. Hence,
its water quality is both dependent upon the upstream headwaters and the backflows from
downstream. Targets of the SEP components are to control pollution loading only in a certain
extent around Daqiao intake other than the inflow of headwaters that are beyond their reaches. It
means that the efforts for control of local pollution sources are not always able to ensure fully
attaining the water quality goals. This is why the Taipu pump station was identified by the World
Bank team as a lending condition and an important facility for long-term sustainability at Daqiao
intake during the project appraisal. This facility is to augment the flow in Huangpu River with
good quality water during times of low flow. Thus, the threat of pollution to the new water
intake could be expected to mitigate.

Quality of Construction

26.     The construction of civil work and the installation of equipment on the all components of
the project were in good quality. Several awards were received for excellence of the construction
quality. Not only the design and construction methods were optimised, but also the eligible
supervision has played a key role in the implementation for enabling the work to proceed
satisfactorily.

27.     Here are some of the examples. As the contractors of PC1 were of highly qualified and
experienced firms, the construction quality is quite good. The infiltration rate of the culvert
achieves low level. The steel pipe-jacking of 3.5 m in diameter was used in the construction of
the conveyor.

28.     In the Songjiang Northern Water Supply sub-component, all the construction materials
were pre-checked before put in use, and the laid conveyor was post-checked carefully to ensure
their reliability.

29.     In the Northern Sewer component, the construction work of pipelines was carried out by
trenching and embedding, or pipe-jacking depending upon the real situation. Over 80% works
were evaluated as of high quality in terms of both the construction and the engineering cost.
Eight ones of the contract packages, as well as the Northern Sewer project as a whole were
awarded golden medal of the municipal engineering works of Shanghai.




                                                   - 44 -

Control of Funds

30.     The overall project cost is up to now estimated at US$560.8 million, about 22.8% higher
than the original cost of US$456.6 million estimated by the appraisal. Though total cost of the
original components except PC2 is some 26.8% below the appraisal estimate, however, the scope
of work of PC2 increased from the appraisal scheme to result itself in some 128% higher than the
estimated cost and all additional and supplementary sub-components cost US$95.6 million more.

31.     International and domestic competitive bidding was carried out strictly according to the
Guideline of the World Bank, and the procedures of contracting, review and disbursement
stipulated by planning and financial departments were followed. As a result, the engineering cost
of the all components was under control.

32.     For instance, contract prices in the original part of PC1 were at least one-third lower than
its budgetary estimates. Besides, the reimbursements never exceeded the contract prices as all
were checked by qualified and experienced staff, even for some extra works that had also been
reviewed and approved by the World Bank in advance. The engineering cost of Songjiang
Northern Water Supply sub-component was 7.6% reduced, i.e., the investment was 140 million
yuan, dropped from the budgetary estimate of 151.6 million yuan. The investment of the original
part of PC2 was not only under control, but its saving was also used for the construction of
additional link sewer connecting to 47 factories. The trunk sewer contract No.2.1 in PC3 was
bidden at a price of 9.28 million yuan, about 10 million yuan lower than the budgetary estimate.

33.     As a good control of the application of funds, the remaining loan funds have been applied
to the supplementary works, i.e., interception and separation of combined storm and foul
drainages in city area, rehabilitation of South Trunk Sewer and pump stations, rehabilitation of
wastewater treatment plants, and Changqiao Water Treatment Plant rehabilitation.

Introduction of Some New Technology and Equipment

34.     Some of new technologies and/or equipment were introduced in this project. For
example, guide vanes and ceramic bearings have been used on the pumps in the Daqiao pump
station of PC1. The former ones can work to readily regulate the flow, and the latter ones are
found to be suitable to fit on the clean water pumps. All the pumps run properly.

35.     For the conveyor in size of DN800 for Sheshan Waterworks in the Songjiang Northern
Water Supply sub-component, pipes made of glass fibre reinforced plastics, which are featured as
having smooth and anticorrosive inner wall, lower fluidity resistance, lighter weight, ease of
laying, longer lifetime, but higher price, were adopted instead of steel pipe. The performance of
the system shows fairly satisfactory.

36.     Owing to adopting some new construction method and new equipment, PC2 has not only
broken through to get rid of the infiltration of groundwater into the sewers, also achieved
progress in civil works and installing mechanical and electrical equipment in the pumping stations.
In the pipe-jacking, the jacking spans were sometimes stretched to result in reducing the number



                                                 - 45 -

of shafts and the road restoration work, and thus saving the engineering cost. There were four
new records in the construction of the siphon tunnel across the Huangpu River, i.e., reinforced
concrete pre-fabricated pipe-jacking, over 30 m deep jacking, parallel jacking of tunnels with less
than 1.28 m of net space in between, and elevation vertically curved line jacking. In the
monitoring system, DNP3.0 protocol is used in SCADA system in water environmental
engineering to enhance its reliability and real-time. In the pump station, a flexible check valve
with less head loss, good tightness and lower noise is used at the outlet of the pump, and
submersible pumps are installed at #4 pump house.

Land Acquisition and Resettlement

37.     As the preparatory stage of the project was started in the early 1990s, there were a few
special rules available for land acquisition and resettlement at that time, and no special
requirement for assessing the social impact and conducting the public participation. Thus, the
preparation of resettlement action plans (RAPs) was lagged behind.

38.     Despite delayed making up of RAPs for individual components, the implementation of
land acquisition and resettlement was still in accordance with the World Bank's policies and
principles incorporated with the municipal government's ordinance and regulations. The public
participation was carried out so that an understanding and support from local governments and
local people was attained, and the land acquisition and resettlement proceeded smoothly.

39.     A scale of the resettlement in SEP involved over 2,700 persons and 51 enterprises.
Compensation for resident resettlement and enterprise relocation cost 155 and 87 million yuan
respectively. Expenses for land acquisition and borrowing were 217 million yuan. A sum of 490
million yuan was used including a portion of expenses for moving and reinstating public utility
installations.

40.     A post-evaluation of the implementation of land acquisition and resettlement shows that
most of the affected are substantially satisfied with the resettlement by obtaining adequate
compensation and enjoy improved housing condition with all necessary fittings and convenience
for daily life. As new housing for the resettled farmers are situated near their original dwellings,
their living environs have no great changes. The reconstruction of agricultural infrastructures has
not only restored their functions, but also upgraded. The resettled enterprises have taken this
opportunity to restructuring their own, and their production and business have been restored.

41.     There is something found short in the land acquisition. As the alignment of the conveyors
is somewhat inconsistent with planned roads, it has made several towns difficult in further
development along the line. It implies that the alignment should have been consulted with the
local governments and matched with their long-term plans as possible. Moreover, when returning
the borrowed farmland, it has found at one site that the thickness of topsoil is not adequate for
restoring cultivation. It was due to careless preservation of the excavated topsoil for later
refilling. Though more financial compensation has been given, however, it is still in vain.




                                                  - 46 -

Experiences and Lessons

42.     The performance of the World Bank is highly satisfactory. The Bank's assistance has been
obtained in the stages of project preparation and implementation especially many valuable
comments and suggestions were given during the optimisation and modification of the project
schemes. The project manager and related specialists assigned by the World Bank visited
Shanghai at regular intervals to inspect the project. It is highly appreciated that the World Bank's
eligible intervention has given promotion to the project progressing and instruction to the project
management, and also given much help for the successful completion of the project.

43.     As the comprehensive SEP consisted of a series of PCs with a general objective to protect
the Huangpu River and its tributaries, a number of concerned agencies were involved. The
Shanghai Municipality therefore set up a high level Leading Group and a project office, namely
Shanghai Environment Project Office (SEPO), to take the responsibility for coordinating with the
concerned agencies, liaising with the World Bank, and organising all the components to
implement. All the concerned executing agencies also set up their PC offices respectively staffed
by sector professionals and supported by teams of local design consultants that ensured to carry
out the project management effectively. The operation of those project offices has proven that
such an institutional framework was essential in smooth and successful implementation of the
SEP.

44.     On the other hand, however, as the implementation of the project has been lasting for
almost ten years, staffing movement in the project offices has resulted in discontinuity of the
project management to some extent, so that the new staff knew a little history of the project or
was unfamiliar with the procedure of World Bank financed projects. On the contrary, one task
manager assigned by the World Bank as well as concerned sector specialists almost maintained
throughout the life of the project so as to keep a high degree of institutional memory and
continuity.

45.     Environmental assessment of the SEP was carried out in a regional way. As the project
are targeted for improving the supply of potable water and safeguarding the water quality in
Shanghai, and localities of the PCs are all concentrated in the Upper Huangpu catchment, the
regional environmental assessment is an appropriate means of doing the analysis on individual
potential effects of all the components integrally by an areal point of view. It has been found
effective.

46.     The World Bank has mature experiences in project management. For instance, bidding
documents should be reviewed and endorsed by "No-objection" by the project manager of the
World Bank prior to going on with the next procurement procedure, so that all the tendering
packages can meet the requirement of the plan. Through tough and fair competition, qualified
contractors awarded the project to ensure a higher quality level of the construction while getting
lower bidding price.

47.     Concerning a possible increase in disbursement percentage for civil works, 28% seemed
quite low. This issue was raised several times in the course of implementation when bid prices of



                                                - 47 -

major civil works were much lower than the appraisal estimates. It has resulted in some US$35
million of the loan undisbursed. As the World Bank had insisted in objection attitude to the
increase in disbursement percentage for civil works, the preparation of candidate supplementary
sub-components for using this undisbursed portion of loan was delayed. Should the World Bank
give a quick and clear response, the supplementary sub-components might be included in the
project programme earlier to gain more time for their implementation.

48.     The technical assistance programme helps the enhancement of project management.
Through various training activities, the personnel engaged in project management have acquired
knowledge and practical skills. The trained human resources can give their talents in the
implementation of this very project but will not be limited to.

49.     The experience in project management has disseminated for reference for other similar
projects. Broad mutual exchanges of what learnt and lessons drawn with other similar projects in
different cities of China were carried out during the implementation of SEP. Project staffs from
the cities of Beijing, Tianjin, Chongqing, and Guilin, as well as the provinces of Zhejiang, Sichuan,
Yunnan, Liaoning, Hubei, and etc. were visited each other and held several valuable discussions.

50.     The alternatives of project should be compared to make the project more rational in
technical and economical terms. Thus, while proposing a project, an important task is to
appropriately analyse its various possible options under the prerequisite for the achievement of its
determined objectives. In the stage of project feasibility study and design, the engineering
geotechnical investigation and hydraulic modelling test should be carried out to find out the best
construction methods.

51.     For instance, an on-the-spot survey of the pipeline alignment in the Songjiang Northern
Water Supply sub-component was carefully made, so that the cost for land acquisition or
borrowing was minimised, and the compensation for destroying green shoots of grains and for
resettlement was reduced by dodging the cultivated land or villagers' houses as possible.

52.     It should take great care to examine the suitability whilst introducing new materials and
technologies. For example, the ceramic bearings, usually thought to be wearable, had been used
on the pumps both at Daqiao Pump Station of PC1 and at #1 pump house of PC2. It was found
that the ceramic bearings were wore out on two sewage pumps in two years, whereas still
working properly on the clean water pumps. Another example is the use of the material HDPE.
The pipe made of HDPE is not suitable to the soft ground condition in Shanghai though it is light,
anticorrosive and cheap.

53.     The adjustment of water and wastewater tariffs has been lagged behind to meet the
requirement in the covenant. As tariffs of the public utilities were thought to be of important
concerns to the people's livelihood, their pricing should take the interests of the whole into
account and was under the governmental control. The bearability of customers is one of the
concerned factors to be born in mind. This prudent attitude has resulted in the tariffs increase
step by step though insufficient to meet the covenanted financial targets as expected. However,
some rise of them has brought out an effect on promotion of the institutional reform in the water



                                                - 48 -

and wastewater sectors and then spreading to the other public utility sectors to a certain extent.

54.    The construction of the Taipu pump station at the connection of Taipu Canal to Taihu
Lake has been greatly postponed owing to the difficulties in the coordination among provincial
administrations. It is not completed yet till now though it is one of key installations to offset the
backflow of Huangpu River from its urban reaches and ensure the water quality at the Daqiao
water intake through pumping 300 m3/s of water from Taihu Lake to augment the river flow of
Huangpu River during critical low flows. According to the latest information about the progress,
the construction of Taipu pump station, another World Bank funded project, will all be completed
by June 2003, and then its commissioning can be expected to start afterwards.




                                                - 49 -

Additional Annex 9.      External Monitoring and Evaluation of Resettlement


   SUMMARY OF EXTERNAL MONITORING AND EVALUATION OF
       RESETTLEMENT OF SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT

The Shanghai Environment Project (SEP) is a World Bank funded project including
environmentally-oriented capital works and related institutional strengthening.       This project
started preparation in 1991 and closed in the end of 2002. As project components (PCs) of the
SEP comprised certain amount of civil works, a land acquisition and resettlement programme was
involved. Of all PCs, PC1 and PC2 accounted for the overwhelming majority of the resettlement.
Hence, the external monitoring and evaluation for resettlement are to focus on those two PCs.

1       Background
The PC1, Drinking Water Quality Protection, was to construct a major raw water supply system
for the Shanghai Municipality, including an intake on the Huangpu River at Daqiao (about 5.4
million m3/day capacity), pumping stations, multiple-barrel low pressure supply main (about 25
km multiple barrel culverts varying from 3.25 m x 3.75 m to 2.2 m diameter), surge protection,
telemetry and controls, selected improvements to the existing treatment facilities and distribution
network;

One of supplementary sub-components in PC1 by using an undisbursed portion of loan is
Renovation of Changqiao Waterworks including reconstruction of sedimentation tanks, filters,
pump houses and sludge recovery facilities to efficiently and reliably provide up to 1.6 million
m3/d of potable water for domestic and industrial users in the western area of Shanghai.

The PC2, Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution Control, was to protect and improve water
quality at the new Daqiao intake and conveyor system, comprising the construction of wastewater
conveyance system for the Wujing and Minhang districts, known as Northern Sewer, including
the provision of secondary and tertiary connecting sewers;

Other three ones of the supplementary sub-components in PC2 by using the undisbursed portion
of loan are to restore the capacity of sewerage system resulting in reducing the pollution loads to
the watercourses:

a)      Interception and Separation of Combined Storm and Foul Discharges in City Areas,
including rehabilitation of separate systems, interception of wastewater flows from storm water
pump stations, and providing and installing equipment at 18 pump stations;
b)      Rehabilitation of South Trunk Sewer and Pump Stations, including replacement and
rehabilitation of 8.3 km sewers, 2 pump stations and 4 link sewer stations; and
c)      Rehabilitation of Wastewater Treatment Plants, including rehabilitation of 5 existing
wastewater treatment plants.
Both PC1 and PC2 covered a certain range of areas where the construction activities such as
building pumping stations and laying conveyors were carried out.

2       External Monitoring and Its Methodology
The external monitoring is to survey and check the performance of the action plans for
resettlement, compensation and restoration of affected inhabitants, enterprises and relevant



                                               - 50 -

infrastructure.     Based on the operational directives of the World Bank for involuntary
resettlement and the relevant laws and regulations of China, the implemented resettlement and
compensation as well as the living standard of resettlers were monitored by questionnaires and
site visits.

The indicators in the monitoring cover:

l Payment of compensation: adequate compensation should be paid to affected people and
    enterprises three months before the commencement of construction, and detailed records of
    the payment should be made including the categories, standards and amount of the
    compensation as well as dates and receivers;
l Schedule of land acquisition and resettlement related to the construction: the land
    acquisition and resettlement should be finished at least one month before the commencement
    of construction, whilst the resettling bases should be completed at least two months in
    advance;
l Restoration of infrastructures: the indispensable infrastructures should be restored at least to
    their previous levels after relocation, and the compensation should be sufficient for their
    reconstruction;
l Provision of housing: the provided housing should be selectable and up to the standard
    according to the resettlement action plans (RAPs), the affected people should be moved to
    their new houses one month before the commencement of construction, detailed records of
    the requirement for new houses, moving dates and arrangement for the dwelling should be
    made, the compensation should be equivalent to the cost for rehousing, appropriate
    arrangement should be made for the property management in new residential areas, affected
    people should duly receive their redress such as allowances or bonus for moving of house or
    facility, e.g., cable TV, telephone, and etc.;
l Satisfaction of the affected people: the level of satisfaction and comments to the all aspects
    of the RAPs should be recorded, and an operational mechanism to deal with the disputes
    should be available;
l Living standards: living standards of the affected people should be improved or at least
    maintained at the present levels.
The approaches to the monitoring are using questionnaires or interviews to the affected people at
different sectors by random sampling to find any problems potentially influencing the projects
from various angles of view. The questionnaires were distributed to affected enterprises or
households to collect information from individual responses. Direct interviews were made to
affected households and enterprises. All the collected information was analysed in terms of
affected areas, resettlement bases, affected duration, affected categories, redress levels, resettling
duration, and etc.

The major activities of monitoring and investigation are:

l Organisation and functions of resettlement implementing agencies;

l Resettlement policies and compensation standards;

l Resettlement implementation schedules;

l Payment of the compensation for resettlement;




                                                 - 51 -

l Reemployment of the resettlers;

l Rebuilding and resettlement of housing;

l Restoration and reconstruction of enterprises;

l Restoration and reconstruction of affected infrastructures;

l Restoration of income and living standard of resettlers;

l Complaints and appealing;

l Public participation, consultation and information publicity.

According to the information referred to the resettlement documentation prepared and provided
by resettlement implementing agencies, the external monitoring and evaluation for the
resettlement activities in Shanghai Environment Project have been conducted.

3       Implementation of Land Acquisition and Resettlement
The land acquisition and borrowing, the affected inhabitants and enterprises in the individual
subcomponents of PC1 and PC2 are summarised (Table 1). The affected area of PC1 was in
Songjiang, Minhang and Xuhui districts, and the land of about 6 ha has been acquired and of 28
ha was borrowed. The construction of PC2 involved the area in Minhang, Xuhui districts,
Pudong New Area, and other districts where the land of about 40 ha has been acquired and of 59
ha was borrowed. In respect to resettlement in the PC1 and PC2, over 15 and 70 enterprises as
well as over 50 and 800 households were affected respectively. All cost over 500 million yuan.

       Table 1 Summary of Land Acquisition and Resettlement Status in PC1 and PC2

PC      Sub-component        Land (ha)              Affected by resettlement     Compensation
                                                                                    (M yuan)
                              Acquired                    Borrowed                HouseholdPeo
                                                                                  pleEnterprise
                                                                                   Employee
PC1 Daqiao Intake              5.25                        283.22                 56227141
                                                                                      03.73
     Changqiao WW              0.81                         0.00                   00216.21
     Renovation
     Sub-total                 6.06                        283.22                 56227161
                                                                                      19.94
PC2 Northern Sewer            39.07                        57.67                  69821403
                                                                                  24408349.
                                                                                         35
     Separation of Storm       0.21                         0.00                   00201.69
     & Foul Discharges
     South Trunk Rehab.        0.33                         1.28                  14544431
                                                                                   17048.96
     WWTP Rehab.               1.00                         0.16                  0075299.3
                                                                                          7
     Sub-total                40.61                        59.11                  84325847
                                                                                  25107409.
                                                                                         37
Gra              46.68        342.33                       899                    281188529.




                                              - 52 -

 nd                                                                                             31
total


The land acquired included some arable land and non-arable land.            Ordinarily, there were
buildings or public utility installations on the land such as agricultural facilities, roads or green
spaces. Thus, the resettlement of inhabitants and enterprises as well as the re-employment were
involved.

The conveyor of PC1 traverses across the land in the Upper Huangpu area and the fringe of urban
area of Shanghai, and the PC2 and its supplementary sub-components scatter in much wider areas
including urban and suburb districts. The land acquisition and borrowing activities were also
carried out along the way in those areas (Tables 2 and 3). As most of project areas were located
in Minhang District, the land acquisition and borrowing activities were carried out mainly there
too. It can be seen that the land borrowed for the construction was much more than that
permanently acquired in particular.


         Table 2  Land Acquired by PC1 and PC2 in Various Districts of Shanghai     Unit: ha

 District                             Project sub-component                             Sum
                                          Daqiao intake                              Changqiao
                                                                                    WWNorther
                                                                                      n Sewer3
                                                                                    supplements
                                                                                       of PC2
Songjiang                                                             4.326                4.326
Minhang                                                               0.289         35.3330.192
                                                                                          35.814
Xuhui                                                                       0.637 0.8123.5330
                                                                                       .0225.005
Pudong                                                                              0.2000.3310
                                                                                            .531
Changning                                                                             1.0001.000
   Total                                                              5.252         0.81239.067
                                                                                    1.54646.677


         Table 3  Land Borrowed by PC1 and PC2 in Various Districts of Shanghai     Unit: ha

 District                             Project sub-component                             Sum
                                          Daqiao intake                              Changqiao
                                                                                    WWNorther
                                                                                      n Sewer3
                                                                                    supplements
                                                                                       of PC2
Songjiang                                                             50.500        50.500
Minhang                                                              216.501        50.600
                                                                                    0.0202
                                                                                    67.121
Xuhui                                                                      16.217 6.2000.02
                                                                                      522.442
Pudong                                                                              0.8701.28



                                                  - 53 -

                                                                                        12.151
Baoshan                                                                              0.0500.05
                                                                                             0
Changning                                                                            0.0500.05
                                                                                             0
Hongkou                                                                              0.0150
                                                                                       .015
   Total                                                               283.218       0.0005
                                                                                     7.6701
                                                                                     .44134
                                                                                      2.328


It has been found that the land acquisition and resettlement in SEP were all well implemented in
accord with national policies and OD 4.30 of the World Bank concerning the resettlement, and
the compensation were all paid out. The implementation of resettlement and compensation of
PC1 was completed in August 2001, whilst that of PC2 in the end of 2002.

4       Findings of Monitoring
Proponents of the project components have followed the compensation standards and various
regulations specified by the World Bank in a careful, reasonable and timely manner. It is a key
factor in the process of resettlement whether the affected inhabitants or enterprises could obtain
rational compensation fee in full amount in time. Thanks to the implementation of the SEP, the
resettlers could get the opportunity to rehabilitate their old houses.            Now they live in
well-facilitated houses with convenient transport and enjoy their new lives. The survey indicates
that most resettlers are quite satisfied with the resettlement and feel grateful for the visits paid by
the staff of the monitoring team for it shows the care they have from the project proponents.

The officers of concerned township land administrative agencies and responsible staff of the
project components have rich experience in performing the resettlement in the prestage of
projects. Individual resettlement task forces were organised and their staff were given training in
advance on laws, regulations and policies concerning the land acquisition and resettlement. Plans
for the resettlement were worked out in advance for ensuring its smooth implementation. The
task forces went to the affected areas to listen to any complaints and demands about the
resettlement from the local inhabitants to be resettled. On this basis, they drafted concrete
working procedures for the resettlement, posted notices and prepared brochures for publicising
and informing the significance of projects and the situation of resettlement. The survey has
received positive responses from the interviewers.

The farmers who needed to be reemployed owing to the acquisition of arable land are now in a
fairly good situation after rehabilitation. They have improved living condition and had stable
income except for few individuals.

The affected farmer households have got general improvement in living standard whilst their new
living places are still in the original villages without significant changes in their life and social
surroundings. It means that there is no need for them to adapt to the new environment. It shows
a good way of resettlement to dismantle the original house and to build new one in a nearby
place.

Affected enterprises were all compensated on the basis of relevant standard according to their


                                                 - 54 -

losses item by item. Through the compensation, the enterprises have readjusted their original
production layout and structure. Those who have made an effort to suit the needs of the modern
economic development have re-established and recovered their production and operation.

Infrastructures affected by the implementation of the projects were compensated or have been
reconstructed. The newly reconstructed ones are better in standard and in quality than before,
and have taken the surrounding environment and people's need into full consideration. In one
word, the compensation and restoration for the infrastructures are quite well implemented.

However, there were still some problems that ever occurred in the performance of land
acquisition and resettlement. For instance, when returning the borrowed farmland at Liannong
Village, Chedun Town of Songjiang District, the thickness of topsoil has been found not adequate
for restoring cultivation. It was caused by careless stockpile of the excavated topsoil for later
refilling. It has resulted in certain losses to the farmers as who are unable to re-cultivate this
piece of farmland. Though more financial compensation has been given, however, it is still in
vain.

Another example is the alignment of laying the conveyor somewhat inconsistent with planned
roads. In result, difficulties have been made to several towns in further development along the
line because it is not allowable to place a building on the underground conveyor. It implies that
the alignment should have been consulted with the local governments for better matching with
their long-term plans to fully use the land resources as possible.

It can be learnt that the planning of a project should take into consideration not only technical
aspects of the project itself, but also local development. In order to make the project more
effective, the social effectiveness should never be ignored. In addition, the non-skilled labours
should be given training opportunities and employment information to avail them mastering
certain skills and adapting themselves for more employment opportunities.




                                                - 55 -

- 56 -

