Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3711 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Shanghai Environment Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 2, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3711 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 1994, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Municipality of Shanghai (Shanghai) shall carry out the Project, or 
cause the Project to be carried out, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Shanghai the proceeds of the Loan 
as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Shanghai;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Category" means a withdrawal category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
"Fiscal Year" means a calendar year commencing on January 1 and ending on 
December 31.
(c)
"Implementing Agencies" means, collectively, the Sewerage Company, the 
Wastewater Treatment Plant and the Waterworks Company, and "Implementing Agency" means 
any of the Implementing Agencies.
(d)
"its respective Part of the Project" means, in respect of:  (i) the 
Waterworks Company, Part A of the Project; (ii) the Sewerage Company, Part B thereof; 
and (iii) the Wastewater Treatment Plant, Part C thereof. 
(e)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Shanghai of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(f)
"Sewerage Company" means the Shanghai Sewerage Company, a state-owned 
enterprise, established with the approval of the Shanghai Construction Committee on 
March 21, 1987 and operating pursuant to its Charter dated March 21, 1987 and to 
Business License No. 0100427 dated December 3, 1990, issued by the Shanghai Huangpu 
District Bureau of Industry and Commerce.
(g)
"Sewerage Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered into between Shanghai and the Sewerage Company pursuant to Part B.2 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules to the Sewerage Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(h)
"Sewerage Construction Company" means the Shanghai Sewerage Construction 
Company, a state-owned enterprise established by Document No. 86-0564 dated November 
17, 1986, issued by the Shanghai Construction Commission.
(i)
"Shanghai" means the Municipality of Shanghai, a political sub-division 
of the Borrower.
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(k)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the  Sewerage Company 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement the Wastewater Treatment Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreement and 
the Waterworks Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement; "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means 
any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided 
for under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(l)
"Taihu Pumping Station Operation Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Shanghai Water Conservancy Bureau of Shanghai, acting on 
behalf of Shanghai, and the Taihu Basin Authority, acting on behalf of the Ministry of 
Page  3
Water Resources of the Borrower, referred to in Section  6.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
and such term includes all schedules to the Taihu Pumping Station Operation Agreement. 
(m)
"Wastewater Discharge Standards" means (i) the Integrated Standards for 
Discharge of Wastewater No. GB8978-88 issued by the Borrower's National Environmental 
Protection Agency; and (ii) the Shanghai Industrial Wastewater Discharge Standards 
approved by the Shanghai Municipal Government on March 11, 1989.
(n)
"Wastewater Treatment Plant" means the Shanghai Songjiang Wastewater 
Treatment Plant, a state-owned enterprise, established with the approval of the 
Songjiang County Government and operating pursuant to its Charter dated September 28, 
1993, and to Business License No. 270368000
dated November 17, 1993, issued by the Songjiang County Bureau of Industry and 
Commerce.
(o)
"Wastewater Treatment Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the 
agreement to be entered into between Shanghai and the Wastewater Treatment Plant 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Wastewater 
Treatment Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(p)
"Water Use Regulations" means the Regulations on Administration of 
Planned Water Use in Shanghai, issued by the Shanghai Municipal Government in 1985 as 
Document No. 111, as said Regulations may be amended from time to time.
(q)
"Waterworks Company" means the Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company, a 
state-owned enterprise established with the approval of the Borrower's State Council 
and operating pursuant to its Charter dated October 1993, and to Business Licence No. 
160509600 dated August 31, 1993, issued
by the Shanghai Pudong New Area Bureau of Commerce and Industry.
(r)
"Waterworks Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered into between Shanghai and the Waterworks Company pursuant to Part B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules to the Waterworks Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred sixty million 
dollars ($160,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of 
the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Page  4
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding 
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such 
Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the 
rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause Shanghai to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of Shanghai therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
Page  5
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Shanghai to perform such  obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to Shanghai the equivalent in Dollars 
(determined on the date or respective dates of repayment) of the value of the currency 
or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out of the Special Account on 
account of the cost of goods and  services for the Project to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
include, without limitation, terms whereby Shanghai shall undertake to (i) repay the 
principal amount so made available over a period of 15 years, inclusive of a grace 
period of 5 years, (ii) pay interest on the principal amount so made available and 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to 90.63% of the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, and (iii) pay a commitment charge on the principal amount so made available 
and not withdrawn from time to time equal to the commitment charge applicable from 
time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Shanghai pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this 
Section, and those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
Page  6
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Shanghai shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Shanghai will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Any of the parties to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have failed to 
perform any of its respective obligations thereunder.
(d)
Any of the parties to the Taihu Pumping Station Operation Agreement shall 
have failed to perform any of its respective obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraph (a) or (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have been executed on behalf of the 
parties thereto.
(b)
The Water Conservancy Bureau of Shanghai, acting on behalf of Shanghai, 
and, the Taihu Basin Authority, acting on behalf of the Borrower's Ministry of Water 
Resources, shall have entered into an agreement, whose terms and conditions shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank, designed  to ensure (i) the proper operation of a pumping 
station located at Taihu in Jiangsu Province, (ii) the appropriate financing thereof, 
and (iii) discharges of water pumped from Taihu Lake into the Huangpu River in amounts 
adequate to protect the quality of potable water supplied to the intake system 
constructed under Part A of the Project.
(c)
The Waterworks Company's tariffs shall have been increased to levels 
which would enable the Waterworks Company to comply with its obligations set forth in 
Part B.2(a) of the Annex to Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower's State Council shall have approved the Loan Agreement.
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Shanghai, and is legally binding upon Shanghai in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by the parties thereto and are legally binding upon said parties in accordance with 
their respective terms; and
(c)
that the Taihu Pumping Station Operation Agreement has been duly 
Page  7
authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon said parties 
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Page  8
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
          Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)       Civil works for           68,000,000      28%
          Parts A, B, and
          C of the Project
(2)       Goods for Parts           66,600,000      100% of foreign
          A, B, C, D, and                           expenditures, 100%
          F of the Project                          of local expendi-
                                                    tures (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75% of
                                                    local expenditures
                                                    for other items
                                                    procured locally
(3)       Consultants'              17,400,000      100%
          services and
          training
(4)       Unallocated                8,000,000
                                   ___________
          TOTAL                    160,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 15, 
1993.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for goods, works and services under contracts not 
exceeding $300,000 equivalent and for training, regardless of the cost thereof, under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in improving the quality of potable 
water and controlling pollution in Shanghai, so as to provide a sustainable 
environmental setting for the long-term economic and social development of Shanghai 
while providing a competitive framework for
Page  9
industrial growth.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Drinking Water Quality Protection
 
(1)
Carrying out of a program to relocate Shanghai's raw water supply intake system 
at Linjiang on the Huangpu River to Da Qiao, consisting of the:  (a) construction and 
equipping of an intake, pumping stations, a raw water conveyor system, surge 
protection facilities and telemetry and control systems; and (b) rehabilitation of 
existing water treatment facilities and distribution systems.
(2)
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the management, operations and finances 
of the Waterworks Company.
(3)
Preparation of a water supply master plan for Shanghai.
 
Part B:
Upper Huangpu Catchment Pollution Control
 
(1)
Construction of wastewater conveyance systems in the Wujing and Minhang 
neighborhoods of the Minhang District of Shanghai, including the construction and 
equipping of pumping stations and the provision of secondary and tertiary sewers.
(2)
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the management and operations of the 
Sewerage Company.
Part C:
Songjiang Wastewater Pollution Control
 
(1)
Extension and upgrading of the wastewater collection and treatment systems in 
Songjiang Town within Shanghai, including the extension of the trunk conveyance 
system, construction and equipping of pumping stations and connection of sewerage 
systems to households and industries.
(2)
Carring out of a program to strengthen the management and operations of the 
Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Part D:
Pollution Sources and Water Quality Monitoring
 
Construction and equipping of a laboratory at the intake constructed under Part 
A of the Project and provision of associated sampling and analytical equipment and 
monitoring systems, all in order to monitor water quality in the Upper Huangpu River 
Catchment.
Part E:
Municipal Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management
 
(1)
Carrying out of a program to develop suitable solid waste and nightsoil 
management strategies, including the preparation of a hazardous waste management plan.
(2)
Carrying out of a program of investments to strengthen solid waste and nightsoil 
management systems, consisting of: (a) connection of septic tank and nightsoil 
facilities to municipal sewerage systems, and (b) construction of treatment and 
disposal facilities for municipal and
industrial solid wastes and provision of plant, equipment and vehicles required for 
the collection and disposal of said wastes.
Part F:
Institutional Development
 
(1)
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the institutional capabilities of 
Shanghai in respect of water supply and environmental management and monitoring, and 
provision of equipment and materials required therefor.
(2)
Carrying out of studies to develop future projects designed to further improve 
Shanghai's environment.
* * *
Page  10
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
November 1, 1999                               
3,030,000
May 1, 2000                                    
3,140,000
November 1, 2000                               
3,255,000
May 1, 2001                                    
3,375,000
November 1, 2001                               
3,495,000
May 1, 2002                                    
3,625,000
November 1, 2002                               
3,755,000
May 1, 2003                                    
3,890,000
November 1, 2003                               
4,035,000
May 1, 2004                                    
4,180,000
November 1, 2004                               
4,330,000
May 1, 2005                                    
4,490,000
November 1, 2005                               
4,655,000
May 1, 2006                                    
4,820,000
November 1, 2006                               
4,995,000
May 1, 2007                                    
5,180,000
November 1, 2007                               
5,365,000
May 1, 2008                                    
5,560,000
November 1, 2008                               
5,765,000
May 1, 2009                                    
5,975,000
November 1, 2009                               
6,190,000
May 1, 2010                                    
6,415,000
November 1, 2010                               
6,650,000
May 1, 2011                                    
6,890,000
November 1, 2011                               
7,140,000
May 1, 2012                                    
7,400,000
November 1, 2012                               
7,670,000
May 1, 2013                                    
7,950,000
November 1, 2013                               
8,235,000
May 1, 2014                                    
8,545,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of 
prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
Page  11
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3);
 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $9,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
Page  12
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank 
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
