Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3711 CHA
Project Agreement
(Shanghai Environment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPALITY OF SHANGHAI
Dated June 2, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3711 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and MUNICIPALITY OF SHANGHAI (Shanghai).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred sixty 
million dollars ($160,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Shanghai agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Shanghai, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
Page  2
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Shanghai declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) 
carry out Parts D, E and F of the Project, and (ii) cause the Waterworks Company to 
carry out Part A thereof, the Sewerage Company to carry out Part B thereof, and the 
Wastewater Treatment Plant to carry out Part C thereof; all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
public utility and environmental standards and practices, and shall  provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Shanghai shall otherwise agree, Shanghai shall carry out 
the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Shanghai shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Shanghai shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
Shanghai shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by Shanghai of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a)  The Bank and Shanghai shall, from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views with regard to Shanghai's policies in respect 
of charges for water supply, sewerage and waste disposal services and its plans in 
respect of the overall development of the water supply, sewerage and waste disposal 
service sub-sectors of its economy.
(b)
Shanghai shall, as long as it exercises control over the setting of 
charges for the services provided by the Implementing Agencies, establish structures 
and levels of charges for said services which would enable the Implementing Agencies, 
under conditions of efficient operation at reasonable levels of capacity utilization, 
to meet their respective financial obligations set forth in Parts B, C and D of the 
Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, Shanghai shall take all measures necessary to enable: (i) the Wastewater 
Treatment Plant to begin, not later than January 1, 1995, to impose and collect 
charges in respect of its collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater in the Town 
of Songjiang within Shanghai, and retain as its revenues all charges so imposed; and 
(ii) the Waterworks Company to begin, not later than January 1, 1995, to collect and 
retain as its revenues all surcharges imposed on users of potable water in Shanghai 
for exceeding water use quotas pursuant to the Water Use Regulations.
Page  3
Section 3.02. (a) Shanghai shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Shanghai responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Shanghai shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Shanghai 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Shanghai thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making  such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Shanghai:
Page  4
Shanghai Municipal Finance Bureau
60 Jiu Jiang Road
Shanghai,
People's Republic of China
Telex:
33685 SMFB CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Shanghai, or 
by Shanghai on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Vice Mayor responsible for  urban construction or such other person or 
persons as said Vice Mayor shall designate in writing, and Shanghai shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
MUNICIPALITY OF SHANGHAI
By  /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992  (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
Page  5
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, 
Shanghai and the Implementing Agencies shall use the relevant standard bidding 
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have 
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard 
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, Shanghai and the Implementing Agencies 
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms 
agreed with the Bank.
2.
Bidders for goods (other than steel plates and chemical equipment for the water 
treatment facilities included in Part A(1) of the Project) estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more per contract and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $10,000,000 or more per contract shall be prequalified as provided in 
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for: (a) goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (b) works shall be 
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, China may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Local Competitive Bidding
1.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000 or less per 
contract, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Shopping
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $10,000,000 or more, and with respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to 
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that 
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant 
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the 
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
Page  6
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to consultants:  
(A) whose terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981. For complex, time-based assignments, Shanghai and the Implementing Agencies 
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been 
agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by 
the Bank, Shanghai and the Implementing Agencies shall use other standard forms agreed 
with the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
For purposes of Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement, the Implementation Program 
shall consist of the following.
A.
Project Management
 
Shanghai shall continue to maintain a project office, with staff and other 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to be responsible for the 
overall coordination and supervision of Project execution, the supervision of the 
procurement of goods and services thereunder, and the preparation and furnishing to 
the Bank of reports and other information thereon.
B.
On-lending of Loan Proceeds
 
1.
For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project, Shanghai shall relend to 
the Waterworks Company certain proceeds of the Loan under a subsidiary loan agreement 
to be entered into between Shanghai and the Waterworks Company, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank, and which shall include, without limitation, those set forth in 
the Annex to this Schedule.
2.
For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project, Shanghai shall relend to 
the Sewerage Company certain proceeds of the Loan under a subsidiary loan agreement to 
be entered into between Shanghai and the Sewerage Company, under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, without 
limitation, those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.
3.
For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the Project, Shanghai shall relend to 
the Wastewater Treatment Plant certain proceeds of the Loan under a subsidiary loan 
agreement to be entered into between Shanghai and the Wastewater Treatment Plant, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall 
include, without limitation, those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.
4.
Shanghai shall:
 
(a)
(i) cause each Implementing Agency to perform, in accordance with the 
Page  7
provisions of its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement all of the obligations of said 
Implementing Agency therein set forth; (ii) take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable said Implementing Agency to perform such obligations; and 
(iii) not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance; and
(b)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and Shanghai and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision 
thereof.
C.
Part B of the Project
 
In furtherance of the objectives of Part B of the Project to improve the quality 
of water at the intake constructed under Part A thereof, Shanghai shall carry out a 
time-bound action plan, acceptable to the Bank, for the conversion of the production 
processes of, and the construction of
pre-treatment facilities for, selected industrial facilities which discharge 
wastewater into the Upper Huangpu River, designed to ensure the compliance by said 
facilities with the Wastewater Discharge Standards.
D.
Part D of the Project
 
Shanghai shall carry out Part D of the Project through the Environmental 
Monitoring Center within Shanghai's Bureau of Environmental Protection, in accordance 
with a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank.
E.
Part E of the Project
 
Shanghai shall carry out Part E of the Project through its Environmental 
Sanitation Administration Bureau, in accordance with a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Bank.
F.
Part F of the Project
 
Shanghai shall carry out Part F of the Project in accordance with a time-bound 
action plan acceptable to the Bank.
G.
Resettlement
 
Shanghai shall:
(a)
take and shall cause the Implementing Agencies to take, all measures 
necessary to ensure that all persons displaced as a result of the Project shall be 
resettled in accordance with a resettlement plan acceptable to the Bank designed to 
improve the living standards of such persons; and
(b)
(i) maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of 
the resettlement plan referred to in paragraph (a) hereof; (ii) prepare and furnish to 
the Bank not later than January 1  in each year during which resettlement activities 
are carried out, a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out pursuant 
to sub-paragraph (i) hereof, together with any revisions proposed to be made to said 
resettlement plan; and (iii) promptly introduce any such revisions to said 
resettlement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank.
ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE 2
Principal Terms and Conditions
of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
Page  8
The principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Schedule 
shall apply for the purposes of Parts B.1, B.2 and B.3 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
A.
General
 
1.
The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan shall be the equivalent in Dollars 
(determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment) of the value of the 
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out of the Special 
Account on account of the goods and services required: in the case of the Waterworks 
Company, for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; 
in the case of the Sewerage Company, for Part B of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan; and in the case of the Wastewater Treatment Plant, for 
Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
2.
Interest shall be charged on the principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan 
Agreement.
3.
A commitment charge shall be charged on the principal amount of each Subsidiary 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to the charge applicable from 
time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement.
4.
The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period not 
exceeding 15 years, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding 5 years.
5.
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall be made on conditions whereby:
 
(a)
each Implementing Agency shall undertake to:
 
(i)
carry out its respective Part of the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency 
and in accordance with appropriate technical, 
financial, engineering and 
public utility practices and 
appropriate environmental standards acceptable to 
the Bank, and 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other 
resources required for the purpose;
(ii)
procure the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, and utilize 
such goods and services exclusively in the 
carrying out of its respective Part 
of the Project;
 
(iii)
enable the Bank and Shanghai to inspect such goods and the sites 
and works 
included in its respective Part of the Project, the 
operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;
 
(iv)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, 
against such 
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business 
practice, including, without limitation, such 
insurance to cover hazards 
incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out 
of the proceeds of 
the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Implementing 
Agency to replace or repair such goods; and
(v)
(A)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting 
practices its operations and 
financial condition;
 
(B)
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and 
expenses and related statements) for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank and Shanghai;
(C)
furnish to the Bank and Shanghai, as soon as available, but 
Page  9
in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, (1) 
certified copies of said financial statements 
and accounts for such 
year as so audited, and (2) the 
report of such audit by said auditors 
of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank and/or Shanghai shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(D)
prepare and furnish to the Bank and Shanghai, all such other 
information concerning said records, accounts 
and financial statements, 
as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Bank and/or Shanghai shall 
reasonably request; and
 
(b)
Shanghai shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of each 
Implementing Agency to the use of the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Loan upon 
failure by said Implementing Agency to perform its obligations under its respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
B.
Waterworks Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement
 
The Waterworks Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be made on further 
conditions whereby the Waterworks Company shall undertake to:
1.
(a)
carry out, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with a 
schedule satisfactory to the Bank, a waterworks investment program, which the Bank 
agrees is designed to ensure the integrity of the activities carried out under Part A 
of the Project;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than December 31 of each year a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of said investment program, together with any 
revisions proposed to be introduced into said investment program and the schedule for 
its implementation; and
(c)
thereafter, promptly introduce such revisions into said investment 
program and schedule as shall have been agreed with the Bank; and
2.
(a)
produce, for Fiscal Year 1994, total revenues equivalent to not less than 
its total operating expenses;
(b)
earn, for Fiscal Year 1995 and each Fiscal Year thereafter, an annual 
return of not less than the following percentage of the average current net value of 
its fixed assets in operation: 2% for Fiscal Year 1995, 3% for Fiscal Year 1996, 4% 
for Fiscal Year 1997, 5% for Fiscal Year 1998, 6% for Fiscal Year 1999 and 7% for 
Fiscal Year 2000 and each Fiscal Year thereafter;
(c)
(i)
review, before September 30 in each Fiscal Year, and on the basis 
of forecasts 
prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, whether it 
would meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) and 
(b) hereof in respect of such 
year and the next following 
Fiscal Year and  furnish to the Bank the results 
of such review upon 
its completion; and
(ii)
if any such review shows that it would not meet said requirements 
for the 
Fiscal Years covered by such review, promptly take 
all necessary measures 
(including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the structure or levels of its 
charges) in order to meet 
such requirements; and
(d)
for the purposes of determining the rate of return specified in paragraph 
(b) hereof, carry out, not later than June 30 of Fiscal Year 1995 and each Fiscal Year 
thereafter, a pro-forma revaluation of its assets so as to value said assets as at 
December 31 of the preceding Fiscal Year, in accordance with sound and consistently 
applied methods of valuation acceptable to the Bank.
C.
Sewerage Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement
 
The Sewerage Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be made on further 
Page  10
conditions whereby the Sewerage Company shall undertake:
1.
to maintain with the Sewerage Construction Company, arrangements satisfactory to 
the Bank, whereby the Sewerage Construction Company shall be responsible for the 
coordination and supervision of the carrying out, on behalf of the Sewerage Company, 
of Part B(1) of the Project;
2.
(a)
to produce for each Fiscal Year, total revenues equivalent to not less 
than the sum of (i) its total operating expenses; and (ii) the amount by which debt 
service requirements exceeds the provision for depreciation;
(b)
(i) to review, before September 30 in each Fiscal Year, and on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, whether it would meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) hereof, in respect of such year and the next 
following Fiscal Year, and furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its 
completion; and (ii) if any such review shows that it would not meet said requirements 
for the Fiscal Years covered by such review, promptly take all necessary measures 
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) 
in order to meet such requirements; and
3.
not to incur any debt, unless its net revenues for the Fiscal Year immediately 
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior 
to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.3 times 
its estimated maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding Fiscal Year on all 
its debt, including the debt to be incurred.
D.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreement
 
The Wastewater Treatment Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be made on 
further conditions whereby the Wastewater Treatment Plant shall undertake:
1.
(a)
to produce for each Fiscal Year after Fiscal Year 1995 total revenues 
equivalent to not less than the sum of: (i) its total operating expenses; and (ii) the 
amount by which debt service requirements exceeds the provision for depreciation;
(b)
review, before September 30 in each Fiscal Year, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, whether it would meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) hereof in respect of such year and the next 
following Fiscal Year and furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its 
completion; and
(c)
if any such review shows that it would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) hereof for the Fiscal Years covered by such review, promptly 
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements; and
2.
not to incur any debt, unless its net revenues for the Fiscal Year immediately 
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior 
to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.3 times 
its estimated maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding Fiscal Year on all 
its debt, including the debt to be incurred.
E.
Definitions
 
1.
For purposes of Parts B, C and D of this Annex:
 
(a)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating revenues and 
net non-operating income.
(b)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all sources 
related to operations.
(c)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(i)
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; 
and
Page  11
(ii)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred 
in the 
generation of revenues in (i) above.
 
(d)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of not 
less than 3.9% per annum of the average current gross value of the Implementing 
Agency's fixed assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to the Bank, but 
excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(e)
The average current gross value of the Implementing Agency's fixed assets 
in operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value of the 
Implementing Agency's fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of the 
Fiscal Year, as valued from time to time in accordance with sound and consistently 
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
(f)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing the Implementing 
Agency's net operating income for the Fiscal Year in question by one half of the sum 
of the current net value of the Implementing Agency's fixed assets in operation at the 
beginning and at the end of that Fiscal
Year.
(g)
The term "net operating income" means total operating revenues less total 
operating expenses.
(h)
The term "current net value of the Implementing Agency's fixed assets in 
operation" means the gross value of the Implementing Agency's fixed assets in 
operation less the amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
(i)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other 
charges on, debt.
(j)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Implementing Agency 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(k)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the modification of its 
terms of payment on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under 
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(l)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: 
 
(i)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to take 
account of the Implementing Agency's rates in effect 
at the time of the 
incurrence of debt even though they were not 
in effect during the twelve-month 
period to which such revenues 
relate and net non-operating income; and
(ii)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and 
other charges on debt.
 
2.
Whenever, for the purposes of this Annex, it shall be necessary to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Page  12
