Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19426
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
]HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM PROJECT
(Loans 4002/3-AR)
July 7, 1999
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only
in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 27, 1999)
Currency Unit = Argentine Peso (AR$)
AR$1.00 = US$1.00
US$1.00 = AR$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 through December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANSeS          Administraci6n Nacional de Seguridad SocialNational Social
Security Administration
ANSSAL         Administracion Nacional de Seguros de la SaludlNational Health
Insurance Administration
APE            Administraci6n de Programas Especiales/Special Programs Agency
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
DINOS          Direcci6n Nacional de Obras SocialeslNational Directorate for
Social Health Insurance Funds
FROS           Fondo de Reconversi6n de las Obras SocialeslRestructuring Fund
for the National Health Insurance Funds
FSR            Fondo Solidario de Redistribuci6nlSolidarity Redistribution Fund
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
INSSJP         Instituto Nacional de Servicios Sociales para Jubilados y
Pensionados/National Social Services Institute for Retirees and
Pensioners
MSAS           Ministerio de Saludy Acci6n Social/Ministry of Health and Social
Action
Obras Sociales   Social health insurance funds (linked to workers' place of
employment)
Obras Sociales   Social health insurance funds for white-collar employees
de Personal de
Direcci6n
Obras Sociales   Social health insurance funds for workers under collective labor
Sindicales      contracts
OECD           Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU             Project Coordination Unit
PMO            Programa Medico ObligatoriolStandard Health Benefits Package
Pre-pagas       Private pre-paid insurance plans
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SSS            Superintendencia de Servicios de Salud/Superintendency for Health
Services
Vice President Shahid Javed Burki
CMU Director  Myma Alexander
SMU Director  Xavier Coll
Task Manager  Marie-Odile Waty



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary ..........................                                                 i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background                   ..1........................ 
B. Project Objectives ...........................                                            4
C. Achievement of Objectives ..........................   .                                  6
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project           .......................... 14
E. Project Sustainability             .......................... 15
F. Bank Performance ...........................                                             18
G. Borrower Performance                .......................... 19
H. Assessment of Outcome                .......................... 19
I. Future Operations ..........................                                             19
J. Key Lessons Learned ..........................                                          20
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Studies Included in Project
Table 6: Project Financing
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDIXES
A.     Evidence of compliance with loan conditionalities
B.     Borrower contribution to the ICR
C.     Map (IBRD No. 29348)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only
in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM PROJECT
LOANS 4002/3-AR
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Health Insurance Reform
Project in Argentina, for which Loans 4002/3-AR in the amount of US$350 million equivalent
(US$250 and US$100 million, respectively) were approved on April 25, 1996 and made effective
on July 12, 1996 (Ln. 4002-AR) and on December 3, 1998 (Ln. 4003-AR), the date of the third
and final tranche release.
The ICR was prepared by Marie-Odile Waty, Girindre Beeharry and Marian Kaminskis
of the Human Development Sector Management Unit for the Latin America and the Caribbean
Region, and Pablo Gottret (consultant). It was reviewed by Xavier Coll (Director of the Sector
Management Unit), Charles Griffin (Lead Specialist, HNP, for the same unit), Alexandre
Abrantes (Country Sector Leader of the Country Managing Unit for Argentina, Chile and
Uruguay), Robert Hecht (former Task Manager), and Phil Musgrove (WBIHD).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission, April 12-16,
1999. It is based on the Borrower's own completion report and discussions with project
coordinators as well as on material in the World Bank and Project Coordination Unit project files.
The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing its own project completion
report and by commenting on the draft ICR. The Borrower's comments are reproduced
(unedited) in an appendix to the report.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM PROJECT
Loans 4002/3-AR
Evaluation Summary
Introduction/Project Background
1.    In 1991-1992, the Government of Argentina began investigating options for reforming its
health insurance system which was plagued with issues of low efficiency, financial
unsustainability, and poor quality of health care. Collectively known as Obras Sociales, the
compulsory health insurance funds provide coverage to some 18 million beneficiaries (or 51
percent of the population). They are made up of national Obras Sociales, which cover 8 million
employees in the formal sector and their dependents, provincial Obras Sociales, which cover
around 6 million provincial public sector employees and their dependents, and the national health
insurance fund for retirees and pensioners (INSSJP), which covers the health needs of about 4
million beneficiaries. The national Obras Sociales and INSSJP began to incur large deficits
which worsened following the March 1995 financial market crisis and the economic slump of
1995-1996. The combined debts of national Obras Sociales and INSSJP exceeded US$2 billion
in 1995. The growing debts of the social health insurance funds exposed the inefficient and rigid
structure of the health insurance system and put pressure on the Government to find a sustainable
solution to its financial woes. In the second half of 1994, the Government and the World Bank
undertook a sectoral analysis of financing issues and options for reforms, with a special focus on
the national Obras Sociales and INSSJP. The sector work permitted the identification of the
following key policy issues and areas for a first phase of reform:
a. National Obras and INSSJP, which had captive beneficiaries who could not select
membership in another health insurance provider, had little or no incentive to improve the
quality and quantity of services, operate more efficiently and control costs.
b. About 50 percent of the 360 or so national Obras Sociales that existed in 1994 had less than
10,000 beneficiaries, and therefore low financial viability as insurers.
c. A third issue was the lack of adequate mechanisms of transfer of funds from the Solidarity
Redistribution Fund (FSR) to the Obras. These funds, which are financed as a share of
employer and employee contributions to their Obra Social, were meant to be transferred back
to the Obras to ensure that they are able to finance a minimum package of health benefits for
all their beneficiaries, for financial support in the form of loans and subsidies, and to finance
costly and complex health care. Eligibility for financial support to theObras was determined
in a discretionary manner by the National Health Insurance Administration (ANSSAL).
d. A fourth was the weak regulatory environment. Major omissions in the system were the lack
of: (a) a mandatory standard health benefits package (PMO); (b) prudential and consumer
protection regulations for Obras Sociales and private health insurance; and (c) coordination
between the two health insurance supervisory authorities.
i



e. Finally, a number of Obras and INSSJP were running substantial operating deficits and were
highly indebted to providers and financiers. Many Obras were running deficits because they:
(i) were incurring high administrative costs; (ii) had little control over the quantity and costs
of services they covered; (iii) ran inefficient health clinics and recreational facilities; and (iv)
had weak accounting and management systems. INSSJP ran operating deficits because it
had: (i) inadequate and inconsistent contracting practices with providers; (ii) been given
responsibility for financing a number of non-medical social programs without a
corresponding transfer of financial resources; (iii) a high and uncontrolled level of
pharmaceutical expenditures; (iv) excess personnel; and (v) weak accounting and internal
control systems.
2.    In response to a request from the Government of Argentina to finance the restructuring of
Obras Sociales and INSSJP, the Bank approved a loan package of US$350 million (Loans 4002-
AR and 4003-AR) on April 25, 1996. On the same date, the Bank also approved a separate
Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 4004-AR) for US$25 million equivalent.
Project Objectives
3.    The objectives of the loan were to support the first phase of the Government health
insurance reform program by:
a. introducing competition into the market for health insurance, while not creating undue
incentives for risk selection;
b. automatically reallocating the proceeds of the Solidarity Redistribution Fund to Obras
Sociales strictly on the basis of income and health risk of their insured households;
c. developing an effective regulatory framework and institutions for health insurance, which
would promote competition, ensure greater transparency and accountability and help promote
consumer rights; and
d. extending financial and technical assistance to the Obras Sociales and INSSJP to enable them
to raise internal efficiency, improve their balance sheets, and comply with new standards and
regulations.
4.    Loan resources were disbursed in three tranches in accordance with conditions for
Tranche Release agreed upon with the Government. The reform program consisted of three
components: (a) Policy and Regulatory Reforms Component; (b) Restructuring of the Obras
Sociales; and (c) Restructuring of INSSJP. The TA Loan was used to finance the development of
major policies and regulations, and the preparation and monitoring of restructuring plans for the
Obras Sociales and INSSJP.
5.    The following measures were envisaged to meet the Loan's three policy objectives: (a)
the issuance of legislation to introduce competition among nationalObras Sociales and INSSJP;
(b) the establishment and updating of a comprehensive database of the insured population; (c) the
standardization of a package of benefits (PMO) and its adoption by all national Obras and Pre-
pagas; (d) the development and implementation of objective allocation criteria for the Solidarity
Redistribution Fund; and (e) the establishment and development of a single regulatory agency, the
design and issuance of prudential and consumer protection regulations for the Obras, and the
design of regulations for Pre-pagas.
6.    A project restructuring fund (FROS) was established to finance three activities to enable
national Obras Sociales and INSSJP to return to and maintain financial and technical viability: (i)
debt restructuring; (ii) reduction of personnel; and (iii) institutional development, in order to
ii



improve health care services, human resources, and information and communications systems,
and to develop organizational and strategic capacity.
Achievement of Project Objectives
7.    The loan package was fully disbursed in two and half years, instead of the two years
estimated at appraisal. The achievement of the objectives of the loan can only be considered
satisfactory since some of the objectives need to be completed. Both loans supported the
introduction of revolutionary and irreversible changes in the mandatory health insurance system
which affected many politically powerful interest groups. The Argentine Government did better
than most governments that have been engaged in similar reforms in implementing all the key
elements of the reform over a very short period of time, and in weathering the important risks
inherent to such radical change processes. The achievements to date must be seen as the critical
first steps of a reform process that will, in all likelihood, take several more years.
8.    The achievements of the policy and regulatory reforms were satisfactory. Several of the
tasks that were contemplated in the reform program, however, remain to be completed to
consolidate the reform. Within a period of three years, the Government has:
a. Opened up competition among national Obras Sociales, and between INSSJP and national
Obras Sociales that have registered as health insurance providers for the elderly. By March
1999, about 278,000 workers (i.e., 7 percent of enrollees of national Obras Sociales),
representing 725,000 beneficiaries, had changed Obra since the introduction of free election.
Some level of cream-skimming took place with the introduction of competition. The data,
however, indicate that while the expected migration of high-income low-risk population
towards certain Obras Sociales has occurred, the overall impact on the system has been so far
limited.
b. Designed and mandated the introduction of a standard health benefits package which is now
routinely used as a reference package by national Obras, Pre-pagas, and even the media.
c. Introduced an automatic redistribution mechanism to ensure a minimum monthly financing of
$40 for each household enrolled with a national Obra Social, therefore reducing the scope for
discretionary transfer of funds.
d. Established an enrollment database of the population insured by national Obras Sociales, in
which 3 million contributing employees and 4 million dependents were registered.
e. Created a unified regulatory agency and issued prudential and consumer protection
regulations. The Superintendencia de Servicios de Salud (SSS) came into operation in 1998
and has since made progress in setting up a new organization and strategic development plan,
developing a consumer services unit, establishing a team of inspectors and auditors, and
issuing regulations related to free election of Obras, health plans offered by Obras, including
the PMO, contracts with providers, and sanctions and penalties in case of non compliance
with regulations.
f. Submitted to the Argentine Congress a new draft law to regulate private pre-paid health
insurance agencies. The draft law has been approved by a Senate Committee and is awaiting
formal approval by the Congress.
9.    The achievement of the objectives of the restrupturing of Obras Sociales was highly
satisfactory. Thirty-one Obras, covering 5 million beneficiaries (i.e., 62 percent of the population
insured by national Obras Sociales) qualified for a loan under the program. The impact was
positive for the 20 Obras that had executed at least one tranche of their loans at the time of
project evaluation.  Each of these Obras succeeded in improving its financial indicators,
increasing its internal efficiency, and developing adequate systems to comply with new standards
and regulation. The impact on the quality of services provided by the Obras also seemed to be
iii



positive, as shown by the results of a consumer poll carried out by the Superintendency in May
1999. The poll shows that, in general, beneficiaries of the Obras which were restructured are
more satisfied with the quality of the medical and administrative services covered than those of
the Obras that were not restructured.
10.   The achievement of the objectives of the restructuring of INSSJP was partially
satisfactory. The restructuring program achieved the objectives of eliminating the institution's
debts and significantly reducing its operating deficit, but not eliminating it. It is still uncertain
whether INSSJP's internal efficiency and quality of care have improved significantly. INSSJP
delayed the reform of its current organization and management because its managers
contemplated the implementation of an alternative plan that would have radically transformed the
mandate of the institution. INSSJP's proposal was to contract out the management of the care of
its beneficiaries to three large networks of providers, thereby transferring to these networks all the
financial risks associated with the provision of care.
This proposal has not yet been implemented.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
11.   The following political, economic and administrative factors affected the regular
implementation of the program:
a. Introduction of competition among Obras Sociales Sindicales faced resistance by those
interest groups that were comfortable with closed market niches.
b. INSSJP had three directors (interventores) during the course of the project. This created
several implementation problems, in particular uncertainty among providers, and delayed final
negotiations of contracts.
c. The decrease in employer contribution established by Presidential Decrees 492/95 and 494/95
implied a reduction of the order of US$10 million per month in INSSJP revenues. This reduction
required additional efforts in cost reductions to comply with the zero-deficit requirement of third
Tranche Release.
d. The delay in the actual transfer of management responsibilities to the three networks of
providers has further prevented INSSJP from complying with this condition.
e. Lack of counterpart funding has not hampered the restructuring program of Obras Sociales
but could do so in the near future since the program would henceforth mostly rely on counterpart
funds which are severely constrained because of Argentina's tight fiscal situation.
Project Sustainability
12.   All the major project outcomes appear irreversible, although consolidation is needed:
a. Consumer choice of insurance provider and competition among national Obras Sociales and
INSSJP are considered by the major stakeholders as a sustainable reform that is unlikely to be
reversed. According to a May 1999 consumer poll, eighty-one percent of the persons
enrolled in the system know that they have the right to change Obra; 725,000 persons have
exercised this right since it was granted. Seventy or so Obras have expressed their interest in
competing with INSSJP by registering as insurers for the elderly.
b. The sustainability of the enrollment database needs to be ensured. The most important
determinant of sustainability would be the decision to transfer the responsibility of its
maintenance to the Superintendency for Health Services (SSS), which has a higher and more
direct stake in its use than the National Social Security Administration (ANSeS) or the
iv



federal tax revenue office. Consolidation of the database would also require further technical
adjustments, especially regarding maintenance and updating routines.
c. Another area of consolidation is the introduction of additional risk-adjustment criteria (family
size, age, sex, residence) in the redistribution formula of the Solidarity Redistribution Fund.
Their implementation may, however, require new strategies for increasing the amount
automatically redistributed, or reducing the scope of the PMO. The challenge in designing a
system of solidarity contribution and redistribution mechanisms among Obras is to find the
right mechanism that would compensate for the true differences in risks incurred by Obras
without compensating for poor management and inefficiencies.
d. Some success has been achieved in decreasing the scope of discretionary subsidies to Obras,
but the practice was not eliminated. The practice of discretionary subsidies undermines both
the FSR objective of promoting equity among Obras, and the financial objectives of the
restructuring program of Obras.
e. The establishment of an incipient comprehensive regulatory framework was a major step
towards improving the sustainability of the system. The challenge is now to ensure that
regulations are enforced.
f. The empowerment of consumers together with the increased provision of information on the
health insurance system are major features that will help ensure continuous improvements in
the system.
g. The restructuring program of Obras Sociales succeeded in ensuring the financial and
technical viability of the majority of Obras which qualified for a loan. The restructuring
program introduced an important cultural change in the system by developing a new
management culture among Obras as well as new transparent and accountable systems for
funding to Obras.
h. Many of the Obras that did not qualify for a restructuring loan, especially the small ones, are
experiencing today acute financial difficulties which, unless the crisis is adequately resolved,
would pose a threat to the sustainability of the entire system. Their financial situation is
likely to worsen with the increased capacity of autonomous public hospitals to charge them
for services provided to their enrollees.
i. The restructuring program of INSSJP has not yet ensured the financial and technical
sustainability of the institution. A radical plan to change the organization is currently on
hold.
Performance
13.   Bank performance in the identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision of the
Health Insurance Reform Program was highly satisfactory. The Bank responded in a timely
fashion to the Government's request for financial and technical support in the overhaul of its
health insurance system in 1994. The Bank helped define a long-term vision of a more equitable
and efficient health financing system through its sector work and through its dialogue with the
government on the goals and instruments of the reform. Bank staff were particularly effective in
establishing partnerships with a broad array of stakeholders, a strategy that has been instrumental
to ensuring the sustainability of major policy reforms. Finally, the Bank is to be credited for
continuity, excellent technical support and close monitoring in the supervision of the reform
program.
14.   The Borrower's performance was also highly satisfactory. The Government successfully
handled strong political pressures while ensuring that the agreed core program and commitments
established in the Letter of Development Policy were maintained. In addition to its political
savvy, the Borrower should be commended on the degree of professional capacity that it brought
v



to the achievement of the objectives of the program, and for its continued commitment to
improving the health insurance system.
Assessment of Outcome
15.   The overall project outcome is considered satisfactory.  The policy reforms and
regulation component is considered satisfactory. Most of the objectives were met but, in several
instances, the achievements need to be consolidated. The restructuring of Obras Sociales is
considered highly satisfactory, having achieved dramatic and sustainable improvements in the
way Obras conduct business. The restructuring of INSSJP is considered partially satisfactory
since the institution is still running an operating deficit.
Key Lessons Learned
16.   The implementation of the program provided many lessons for future adjustment
programs of this type:
a. At the project design stage, the focus should be on conditionality based on desired outcomes
for the reform rather than on undertaking specific restructuring measures. The Bank team has
developed jointly with the Argentine authorities the conditionality matrix and has allowed great
flexibility with regard to specific instrumental activities.
b. The reform program must be developed with the long-run vision for change in mind yet with
a practical focus on small, achievable steps, a reasonable timeline, and flexibility to adjust
through careful monitoring and management of the process.
c. The reform must be built on broad, multi-agency support, not narrow sectoral backing. The
successes to date of the program have depended critically on political support from the highest
levels of the Argentine government.
d. A key element of the project's success was the fact that it had been preceded by thorough
analytic work that helped establish clear and achievable goals for the adjustment program.
Equally critical to project success was the development of a strong local capacity in data
collection, monitoring and impact evaluation.
vi



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    In 1991-1992, the Government of Argentina began investigating options for reforming its
health insurance system that was plagued with issues of low efficiency, financial unsustainability,
and poor quality of health care. In addition, there was a growing concern about the high cost of
care in the country'. Collectively known as Obras Sociales, the compulsory health insurance
funds provide coverage to some 18 million beneficiaries (or 51 percent of the population). They
are made up of national Obras Sociales, which cover 8 million formal sector employees and their
dependents, provincial Obras Sociales, which cover around 6 million provincial public sector
employees and their dependents, and the national health insurance fund for retirees and
pensioners (INSSJP), which covers the health needs of about 4 million beneficiaries. In addition,
around 200 private health plans (Pre-pagas) provide voluntary health coverage to 2.2 million
individuals. Obras Sociales Nacionales have an average annual revenue of US$3 billion from
mandatory payroll taxation (5 percent from employers and 3 percent from employees). INSSJP,
which has an average annual revenue of US$2.8 billion, is funded by (i) an automatic transfer of
three percent of employer and two percent of employer payroll contributions; and (ii) a tax on
retirement pay and other pensions. Early reform initiatives included: the regrouping under a
unique health insurance law (23660/88) of all the national Obras Sociales; and the centralization
of payroll contributions to all national Obras Sociales by the federal tax revenue office.
2.    The national Obras Sociales and INSSJP began to incur large deficits which worsened
following the March 1995 financial market crisis and the economic slump of 1995-1996 (which
resulted in lower payroll taxes). The combined debts of national Obras Sociales rose from
US$100 million in 1991 to over US$1 billion in December 1995; the debts of INSSJP similarly
spiraled upward from nil to over US$1 billion during the same period. The growing debts of the
social health insurance funds exposed the inefficient and rigid structure of the health insurance
system and put pressure on the Government to find a sustainable solution to its financial woes.
Complaints from consumers about the unavailability and poor quality of health care also added to
the crisis.
3.    In the second half of 1994, the Government and the World Bank undertook a sectoral
analysis of financing issues and options for reforms2, with a special focus on the national Obras
Sociales and INSSJP. The sector work permitted identification of the following key policy issues
and areas for a first phase of reform.
4.    Introducing competition among national Obras Sociales was recognized by the
Government as a fundamental step towards improving their efficiency and accountability as well
as the quality and quantity of their health care coverage. National Obras Sociales are historically
linked to specific industries and professions and are owned and managed by workers' unions or
associations. All formal sector workers and their dependents are required by law to receive health
'Argentina spent an estimated 10 percent of GDP on health in 1995. Argentina's health expenditure
patterns resembled more those of high income countries (9.6 percent) rather than those of countries in its
income group (6.2 percent) or in Latin America (6.3 percent). (Source: WDI, World Bank) The high level
of spending in health was, however, not matched by good health and productivity indicators.
2 Summarized in 'Argentina: Facing the Challenge of Health Insurance Reform,' May 30, 1997, World
Bank.
1



insurance from the Obra linked to their place of employment. The system of national Obras3,
consists mainly of Obras Sociales Sindicales (203 in 1999) which provide coverage to around 6.7
million workers under collective labor contracts and their dependents. The second largest group
of Obras is that of Obras Sociales de Personal de Direcci6n (24 in 1999), which provide
coverage to around 0.6 million white-collar employees. An additional 0.7 million are covered by
Obras of other sorts.
5.    Since Obras and INSSJP had captive beneficiaries who could not select membership in
another health insurance, they had little or no incentive to improve the quality and quantity of
services, operate more efficiently and control costs. In addition, the system was characterized by
the existence of a large number of Obras Sociales which were not viable as insurance providers
because of their limited risk pool4. It was believed that competition and regulation would provide
the appropriate incentives to increase efficiency and consolidate the system by reducing the
number of national Obras Sociales. The Government had already introduced by decree the
concept of competition among national Obras Sociales in 1993, but the decree had failed to
become effective because of the absence of a supporting regulatory framework, strong opposition
by labor unions, and the lack of preparedness of the Obras Sociales to face competition.
6.    While designing the reform program, two main options for opening competition in the
health insurance market were considered by the Government: the radical approach of introducing
competition among all health insurance funds (all Obras and Pre-pagas) at once, and the more
gradual approach of introducing competition in specific segments of the insurance system. Given
the lack of readiness of the regulatory framework and the concern that unions would strongly
oppose the insurance reform as a whole if full competition were allowed from the start, the
government decided to opt for the phased approach. It was also feared that the wealthier and
better organized Obras de Personal de Direccion (white-collar employees) and private health
insurance funds (Pre-pagas) would "cream-skim" low risks by attracting the high-income
population. In a first phase of the reform, competition was only envisaged: (a) among Obras
Sociales Sindicales; (b) between INSSJP and Obras Sociales Sindicales; and (c) between Obras
de Personal de Direcci6n and Pre-pagas.
7.    The second major challenge was to reform the Solidarity Redistribution Fund(FSR) with
a view to eliminate its practice of discretionary subsidization of theObras, and to focus the use of
funds exclusively on improving equity and mitigating risk selection. The FSR is financed as a
share of employer and employee contributions to their Obra. Social (10 percent of payroll
contributions for the Obras Sociales Sindicales and 15 percent for the Obras Sociales de Personal
de Direcci6n).  Until 1995, the FSR was managed by the National Health Insurance
Administration (ANSSAL). The funds were theoretically transferred back to the Obras for
several purposes: (a) to ensure that Obras are able to finance a standard package of health
benefits for all their beneficiaries; (b) for financial support in the form of loans and subsidies; and
(c) to finance special programs or costly high-complexity health care. The lack of transparency
3 Based of data from the Superintendency for Health services, there were 361 national health insurance
funds in 1994 and 290 in 1999.
4 In 1999, around 62 percent of national Obras Sociales (180) have less than 10,000 beneficiaries,
accounting for 6.2 percent of total enrollees only.
2



and objectivity in the subsidy mechanisms (eligibility for financial support was determined in a
discretionary manner by ANSSAL) meant that the FSR was not an effective instrument to
promote equity in the system.
8.    A third area of reform was the introduction of appropriate regulation and supervision.
Major regulatory challenges included: (a) enforcing a standard health benefits package (PMO) in
both private and social insurance systems (until 1995, there was no mandatory package of health
services to be provided by Obras Sociales and only the wealthier and well-organized Obras were
able to provide comprehensive health services); (b) establishing minimum rules for competition;
(c) designing prudential and consumer protection regulations for Obras Sociales, including
financial requirements, liquidation procedures, and accounting standards; (d) regulating private
health insurance (Pre-pagas); and (e) establishing a unique supervisory authority (by merging the
Direcci6n Nacional de Obras Sociales, DINOS, with the ANSSAL), that would be professionally
staffed, endowed with adequate monitoring and control systems, and be capable of supervising
both Obras Sociales and private insurance.
9.    The fourth and final area of the first phase of reform was to restructure the Obras and
INSSJP in order to improve their operations and cash flow, and upgrade their organization and
management practices so that they could compete. Most Obras Sociales were running operating
deficits and were heavily indebted to providers (of the 55 Obras Sociales which pre-qualified for
program funding, 42 were running operating deficits and held a total debt of US$1.1 billion).
Service delivery by providers had, in some cases, been nearly interrupted. Indebtedness was not
necessarily related to low revenues: the two Obras Sociales with the highest monthly revenue per
beneficiary ($62 and $49) also had the highest total debt per beneficiary ($433 and $335).
10.   Obras were plagued with inefficiencies of various sorts that contributed to the operating
deficits. First, many Obras were incurring high administrative costs, resulting from excess
personnel (often poorly skilled and non-motivated), loose and inflated organizational structures,
and the lack of efficient information management systems. Secondly, contracting agreements
with providers were not standardized or regulated. This, combined with the absence of medical
audits, resulted in inadequate control of the health services actually provided. Control over the
quantity and costs of services was weak since most Obras did not maintain a database of
beneficiaries and relied mostly on fee-for-service payments to providers. The latter had therefore
an incentive to over-bill for services. This led to a vicious circle of deterioration in the
relationships between Obras and providers and, consequently, in the quality of services provided
to the beneficiaries.  Without a beneficiary database, Obras had no knowledge of the
epidemiological profile of their beneficiary populations, nor the capacity to tailor preventive and
curative programs adapted to the specific health needs of their population. Thirdly, many of the
health clinics owned by Obras Sociales offered low-complexity high-cost services, which could
be contracted out at better quality and price. Finally, many Obras owned and managed
recreational and tourist facilities that were running operating deficits, draining resources from
health services.
11.   INSSJP's financial situation became critical in 1995. Its average monthly operating
deficit of US$72.5 million was financed through increased liabilities with both providers and
financial creditors (private and public). INSSJP's debts to providers were increasing at such a
fast rate that many providers had disrupted service delivery, either directly or indirectly, by
rejecting patients. As of end-1995, INSSJP incurred US$521 million in debts to providers and
US$431 million to public institutions such as ANSSAL and financial institutions such as the
National Bank. In addition, debts to providers were not always clearly accounted for because of
the lack of adequate contracting and financial systems. Reasons for the operating deficit were: (i)
3



inadequate and inconsistent contracting practices with providers (e.g., cost of services could vary
significantly within the same city depending on the provider); (ii) payment of non-medical
benefits to non-contributing beneficiaries: INSSJP had been'given responsibility for financing a
number of non-medical social programs (food security, poverty) without a corresponding transfer
of financial resources; (iii) a high and uncontrolled level of pharmaceutical expenditures, arising
from poorly designed contracts with providers and co-payment systems, and an unduly extensive
list of subsidized drugs; (iv) excess personnel (INSSJP had a workforce of 14,500 in 1995); and
(v) a lack of accounting and internal control systems.
12.   In late March 1995, the Government requested that, as part of the World Bank's US$1.3
billion package of emergency assistance to Argentina, an operation be prepared and appraised for
the reform of the Obras Sociales and INSSJP. The Bank approved a loan package of US$350
million (Loans 4002-AR and 4003-AR) on April 25, 1996. The loans consisted of a Single
Currency Loan of US$250 million and a Currency Pool Loan of US$100 million equivalent. The
loans, together with a Government counterpart of US$400 million5, amounted to a total of
US$750 million. On the same date, .the Bank also approved a separate Technical Assistance Loan
(Loan 4004-AR) for US$25 million equivalent to finance critical institutional development
activities.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
13.   The objectives of the Loans were to support the first phase of the Government health
insurance reform program, by:
a. introducing competition into the market for health insurance, while not creating undue
incentives for risk selection;
b. automatically reallocating the proceeds of the Solidarity Redistribution Fund (FSR) toObras
Sociales strictly on the basis of income and health risk of their insured households;
c. developing an effective regulatory framework and institutions for health insurance, which
would promote competition, ensure greater transparency and accountability, and help
promote consumers' rights; and
d. extending financial and technical assistance to the Obras Sociales and INSSJP to enable them
to raise internal efficiency, improve their balance sheets, and comply with new standards and
regulations.
14.   Loan resources were disbursed in three tranches in accordance with conditions for
Tranche Release agreed upon with the Government (see Appendix A). The Borrower was the
Republic of Argentina, and the Ministry of Health was the Implementing Agency. The reform
program consisted of three components: (a) Policy and Regulatory Reforms Component; (b)
Restructuring of the Obras Sociales; and (c) Restructuring of INSSJP. The TA Loan was used to
finance the development of major policies and regulations, and the preparation and monitoring of
restructuring plans for the Obras Sociales and INSSJP.
15.   Policy and Regulatory Reforms Component. Under this component, the following series
of measures were envisaged to meet the Loan's three policy objectives referred to in 13(a), (b)
and (c) above:
a. The issuance of legislation to introduce competition among national Obras Sociales and
INSSJP;
5 Counterpart funds included US$210 million of cash transfer to the restructuring fund for Obras Sociales
and US$190 million of debt cancellation for INSSJP.
4



b. The establishment and updating of a comprehensive database of the insured population;
c. The standardization of a package of benefits (PMO) and its adoption by all Obras and Pre-
pagas;
d. The development and implementation of objective allocation criteria for the Solidarity
Redistribution Fund;
e. The establishment and development of a single regulatory agency, the design and issuance of
prudential and consumer protection regulations for the Obras, and the design of regulatory
regulations for Pre-pagas.
16.   Restructuring of the national Obras Sociales. A project restructuring fund (FROS) was
established to finance three activities to enable national Obras Sociales to return to and maintain
financial and technical viability: (i) debt restructuring; (ii) laying off excess personnel and, where
appropriate, selling underutilized clinics, hospitals, and other facilities; and (iii) institutional
development activities, in order to improve health care services, organizational and strategic
development, human resources, and information systems and communications.
17.   Only Obras with more than 10,000 beneficiaries were eligible for financial support from
the project since it was considered that smaller Obras could not meet standards of financial
sustainability. Small Obras, however, could become eligible for funding if they merged with
other smaller or larger Obras Sociales. Obras had to meet minimum pre-qualification criteria,
prepare a restructuring plan and submit it for approval to a supervisory Committee which was
chaired by the Secretary of Health and included the Secretaries of the Office of the Chief of
Cabinet and of the Ministry of Economy. For its restructuring loan to be approved, an Obra had
to: (i) show that it would be able to comply with the new regulations of the Superintendency,
including financial ones; (ii) accept the conditions for Tranche Release; and (iii) show it had the
capacity to repay the loan, and accept the repayment of the loan through a monthly automatic
retention by the federal tax revenue office on the Obra's collection of contributions. Qualifying
Obras received financial support for the above-mentioned purposes in the form of subsidiary
loans from the FROS, which were disbursed in two or more installments upon compliance with
conditions established on the basis of their restructuring plans. These conditions were laid out in
legal agreements (convenio subsidiario de prestamo). The rules and procedures for the provision
of subsidiary loans to Obras were detailed in an Operation Manual which was agreed upon
between the Government and the Bank as a condition of Loan effectiveness.
18.   Restructuring of INSSJP. Given the similarities in the issues faced by INSSJP and the
national Obras Sociales, the restructuring program for INSSJP bore a strong resemblance to the
one for Obras. The restructuring fund was also used to finance similar measures to enable INSSJP
to return to and maintain financial viability: (i) debt restructuring; (ii) reduction of personnel; and
(iii) the development of a new organizational structure, management team, and monitoring and
information systems. The latter included the full restructuring of the institution, the renegotiating
of contracts with providers, and the outsourcing of as many services as possible. In addition,
INSSJP was required to compete with Obras Sociales for clients.
19.   The Loan's objectives were clear and appropriately designed to support the first phase of
the Government's health insurance reform  program.  They were consistent with the
Government's Policy Letter on Health Insurance Reform, dated March 26, 1996, and with the
recommendations of the Bank-financed Sector Study. The program was also consistent with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Argentina, discussed by the Executive Directors on April
24, 1997 and updated on November 10, 1998, which emphasized the institution's support for
creating a more competitive environment for health insurance.
5



C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
20.   The loan package was fully disbursed in two and half years, instead of the two years
estimated at appraisal. The achievement of the objectives of the loan can only be considered
satisfactory since some of the objectives need to be completed. Both loans supported the
introduction of revolutionary and irreversible changes in the mandatory health insurance system
which affected many politically powerful interest groups. The Argentine Government did better
than most governments that have been engaged in similar reforms in implementing all the key
elements of the reform over a very short period of time, and in weathering the important risks
inherent to such radical change processes. The achievements to date must be seen as the critical
first steps of a reform process that will, in all likelihood, take several more years.
21.   The achievements of the policy and regulatory reforms were satisfactory. Within a
period of three years, the Government has: (i) opened up competition among national Obras
Sociales, and between INSSJP and national Obras Sociales that register as health insurance
providers for the elderly; (ii) designed and mandated the introduction of a standard health benefits
package and an income-adjustment mechanism among Obras Sociales; (iii) established an
enrollment database of the population insured by national Obras Sociales; (iv) created a unified
regulatory agency and issued prudential and consumer protection regulations; and (v) submitted
to the Argentine Congress a new draft law to regulate private pre-paid health insurance agencies.
Several of the tasks that were contemplated in the reform program, however, remain to be
completed to consolidate the reform.
22.   The achievement of the objectives of the restructuring of Obras Sociales was also highly
satisfactory. Thirty-one Obras, covering 5 million beneficiaries (i.e., 62 percent of the population
insured by national Obras Sociales) qualified for a loan under the program. The impact was
positive for the 20 Obras that had executed at least one tranche of their loans at the time of
project evaluation.  Each of these Obras succeeded in improving its financial indicators,
increasing its internal efficiency, and developing adequate systems to comply with new standards
and regulation. The impact on the quality of services provided by the Obras also seemed to be
positive, as shown by the results of a consumer poll carried out by the Superintendency in May
1999. The poll shows that, in general, beneficiaries of the Obras which were restructured are
more satisfied with the quality of the medical and administrative services covered that those of
Obras which were not restructured.
23.   The achievement of the objectives of the restructuring of INSSJP was partially
satisfactory. The restructuring program achieved the objectives of eliminating the institution's
debts and significantly reducing its operating deficit, but not eliminating it. It is still uncertain
whether INSSJP's internal efficiency and quality of care have improved significantly. INSSJP
delayed the reform of its current organization and management because its managers
contemplated the implementation of an alternative plan that would have radically transformed the
mandate of the institution. INSSJP's proposal was to contract out the management of the care of
its beneficiaries to three large networks of providers, thereby transferring to these networks all the
financial risks associated with the provision of care.
This proposal has not yet been implemented.
24.   Evidence of the Borrower's compliance with all the loan conditions is provided in
Appendix A, "Evidence of Compliance with Loan Conditions," of this report. The following
describes in some detail the degree of achievement of each of the project objectives.
6



(i) Policy Reforms and Regulation
25.   Competition among Obras Sociales. The introduction of free choice among Obras
represented a fundamental change in the health insurance system in Argentina. Enrollees could
freely choose any Obra as their health insurance carrier as of January 1, 1997. To limit risk
selection, Obras were prohibited from rejecting any worker who chose to enroll with them. By
March 1999, about 278,000 workers (i.e., 7 percent of enrollees of national Obras Sociales),
representing 725,000 beneficiaries, had changed Obra since the introduction of free election.
Average monthly transfers were of the order of 12,500 in 1997 and 9,800 in 1998. A decree was
passed in May 1998 that improved the framework for competition by allowing workers to change
Obra at any time as long as they do so only once in any 12-month period. The program
supported media campaigns to inform the population of their right to choose among Obras. A
consumer poll carried out in May, 1999 showed that 81 percent of the population are now aware
of their right to change Obra. Seven percent of persons interviewed had changed Obra since
1997. The main reasons evoked were: (i) job change (24 percent); (ii) dissatisfaction with
medical services provided by former Obra (17 percent); (iii) easier geogrAphical access to
services (12 percent); and (iv) excessive bureaucracy of former Obra (12 percent).
26.   Sixty-six percent of the 278,000 transfers were made by workers with a monthly salary of
less than US$1,000. However, when analyzed in relative terms, the proportion of high-income
workers who changed Obra (64 percent of workers earning more than $2,000 opted for a new
Obra) is much higher than that of low-income workers (only 13 percent of those earning less than
US$ 1,000 changed Obra). The fact that richer workers have exercised their right to choose their
health insurer proportionally more than poorer workers may result from two factors. First, the
richer population usually has more and better information about their options, and higher
expectations vis-a-vis quality of care. Second, the insurance funds that were able to meet these
expectations have inevitably actively sought to enroll this wealthier population. In addition,
although the opening of the market was intended to be gradual - with the shielding, initially, of
competition from the Pre-pagas - a few Obras did, in effect, enter into partnerships with private
health plans and attracted the high-income population, particularly those households with double
insurance. This shows that some level of cream-skimming took place with the introduction of
competition, a situation that was expected and largely unavoidable. The data, however, indicate
that while the expected migration of high-income low-risk population towards certain Obras
Sociales has occurred, the overall impact on the system has been so far limited: the seven percent
of enrollees in the system who migrated accounted for 10 percent of total revenues.
27.   Solidarity Redistribution Fund. The most important challenge with the opening of
competition was to avoid that Obras Sociales with a majority of low-income high-risk population
become unable to provide the PMO to all their beneficiaries. The change in the reallocation
mechanisms of the FSR was meant to allow directing funds to those Obras Sociales with the
worst risk pools and to ensure a minimum health security to all beneficiaries, regardless of their
ability to pay for health care. This reform hinged upon the achievement of three intermediary
objectives: (a) the design and implementation of a standard package of benefits; (b) the
establishment of a comprehensive database of the insured population; and (c) the design and
implementation of redistribution mechanisms that would compensate Obras for differences in
income and other risk factors of their enrollees (such as age, sex, and residence). Each of these
objectives is discussed below.
7



28.   Standard Benefits Package (PMO). A standard package of services was effectively
designed and implemented prior to the program. A decree was passed in 1995 making it
mandatory for Obras to provide the PMO. The content of the package itself was defined in a
subsequent resolution in May 1996. In November 1996, mandatory provision of the standard
package of services was extended to Pre-pagas. The PMO is now routinely used as a reference
package by national Obras, Pre-pagas, and even the media.
29.   Establishment of an Enrollment Database. A census of beneficiaries of the national
Obras was conducted in which 3 million contributing employees and 4 million dependents were
registered. The database has been in use by autonomous public hospitals to identify those
patients who are enrolled in an Obra so that they can charge the Obra for these services. To that
extent, the establishment of the enrollment database has been a success. The census, however,
fell short of its objectives in other important aspects. The employer response level was only 80
percent, and a large proportion of the questionnaires that were sent back were incomplete
(missing date of birth, sex, province of residence).  Several problems prevented the full
achievement of the objective. First, the database was established and maintained by an
institution, the national social security administration, ANSeS, which had no incentive to
maintain the database, nor a stake in the reform being implemented. Secondly, the updating
mechanisms were insufficient: the database had to be updated regularly because of the frequent
changes in employment status, and had to be cross-checked with that of the federal tax revenue
office for consistency. Finally, the census questionnaire requested detailed and sometimes
superfluous information, which may have deterred employers from responding.
30.   Automatic and transparent reallocation of the proceeds of the Solidarity Redistribution
Fund. The objective of reallocating the proceeds of the FSR in a transparent and automatic way
was largely achieved. In 1995, as part of the sector strategy that was being discussed with the
Bank, an automatic redistribution mechanism was implemented that would ensure a minimum
monthly payment of $40 for each enrolled household (i.e., the enrollee and his/her eligible
dependents). The FSR automatically compensated Obras for the difference if the contributions of
their enrollees did not amount to $40 per month. The new automatic redistribution mechanism
met with wide approval and little resistance because: (a) the transfer mechanism from the FSR
became more transparent; (b) automation meant that Obras had greater financial predictability
and could consequently better plan their operations; and (c) administrative capacity was not
stretched since the transfer was automated.
31.   In a second phase, the introduction of family size as an additional redistribution criterion
to further improve equity was attempted. Ensuring a uniform payment of $40 for households,
regardless of size, penalized large families. A decree was passed in 1998 that ensured a minimum
monthly coverage of $22.40 for each enrollee and $11.50 for each dependent. This decree was,
however, suspended in 1999 despite general acknowledgement that ensuring a minimum monthly
financing for each beneficiary (i.e., enrollees and their dependents) would improve equity. The
change in distribution criteria led to important alterations in the amount and destination of the
funds with the effect that some of the Obras were financially destabilized, especially those that
were providing coverage to small low-income households. With this new criterion, some 98
Obras received a lower level of subsidy from the FSR. Of these, the ten most affected ones
received a third less than they used to receive from the FSR. These ten Obras are among the
largest ones since they account for some 35 percent of all enrollments.
32.   A subsequent step involved expanding the criteria for automatic subsidization to include
risk-adjustment by age, sex and province of residence of the enrollees and their dependents. The
methodological foundations for a subsidization mechanism that risk-adjusted for age, sex and
8



residence were established. Because of the difficulty, however, of establishing a comprehensive
database of enrollees with all the necessary information, risk-adjustment for age and sex has not
yet been implemented.
33.   A major achievement of the reform program has been to increase the transparency in the
use of the FSR and to substantially reduce the scope for discretionary transfer of funds. The
formula-based automatic redistribution of funds to the Obras gradually increased from nil in
September 1995 to 66 percent of the budget of the FSR (corresponding to $236 million) in 1998.
The program also supported the creation of the Special Program Agency (APE) to manage the
subsidies for long-term and high-complexity care. The program assisted in the institutional
building of the APE, the design of transparent eligibility criteria and the establishment of
information, monitoring and control systems. Clarification of the contents of the PMO also
helped to increase transparency in the use of funds by the APE. In particular, since the provision
of those services that are in the standard package is mandatory, Obras cannot apply for APE
subsidies to finance them. On the other hand, subsidies, although in much smaller amounts than
before, are still being granted to a few Obras that have large operating deficits. These subsidies
are typically granted unconditionally, i.e., without requiring that theObras restructure and meet
financial benchmarks.
34.   Health Insurance Regulation. The Superintendencia de Servicios de Salud (SSS) was
created in early 1997 but only came into operation in 1998. Since then the SSS has made
progress in: (i) setting up a new organization and strategic development plan; (ii) hiring new
personnel and training its staff; (iii) developing a consumer services unit; (iv) establishing a team
of inspectors and auditors; and (v) issuing regulations related to free election of Obras, health
plans offered by Obras, including the PMO, contracts with providers, the outsourcing of
administrative and medical services, publicity and communications, including the contracting of
promoters, and sanctions and penalties in case of non compliance with regulations. As of March
1999, the SSS had, for example, controlled 96 Obras (representing 6.5 million beneficiaries) for
compliance with regulations on the content of their health plans, including the PMO (23 Obras
failed to comply), and on their contracts with providers, administrators, and promoters.
35.   The SSS still needs to issue important regulations on financial and economic
requirements for Obras, such as minimum capital, solvency margin, cash flow requirements,
accounting and reporting practices, as well as sanctions and liquidating procedures. These
financial requirements are part of the conditions of the third tranche release of the Special
Adjustment Loan (Ln. 4405-AR) which was signed between the Government and the Bank in
November 1998. The SSS also needs to be further strengthened to carry out its duties and to take
on additional ones, such as the supervision of the private voluntary insurance market.  In
particular, the SSS needs to design and implement an efficient system for the supervision and
control of Obras, further strengthen its managerial and administrative system, and revamp its
personnel (through pre-retirement, recruitment of new staff and training of existing personnel).
Finally, the SSS should better publicize its consumer services; 69 percent of the persons
interviewed during the May 1999 consumer poll indicated that they didn't know they could file
complaints with the SSS and 77 percent didn't know that the SSS has a toll-free phone line for
information, claims, etc.
36.   Regulation of Private Health Insurance (Pre-pagas): A draft law was designed under the
program which provides for: (i) financial regulation (minimum capital requirements, technical
reserves); (ii) regulation of health plans; (iii) a period of 120 days during which the insurer may
decide not to accept the applicant, after which pre-existing conditions cannot be a basis for
rejection, unless the applicant has withheld medical information; (iv) automatic renewal of health
9



plans under terms which may vary with age or other conditions, but which cannot be modified by
the insurer unless the modification applies to all beneficiaries of the same plan, so as to limit risk
selection; (v) the freedom of the insured to drop a plan at any time on 30 days notice, without
cause; (vi) inclusion of the full PMO in at least one of the plans offered by the insurer. The draft
law has been approved by a Senate Committee and is awaiting formal approval by the Congress.
The draft law opening competition among private health insurers and Obras de Personal de
Direcci6n has not yet been debated in Congress.
(ii) Restructuring of Obras Sociales
37.    Project achievement for this component has been highly satisfactory. Ninety Obras
Sociales applied for the restructuring program, 55 of them pre-qualified, and 31 Obras, covering
5 million beneficiaries (or 62 percent of the population insured by national Obras Sociales), met
the eligibility criteria to qualify for a loan. The restructuring loans amounted to a total of US$
276.9 million, and were used in the following ways: (i) 47 percent for debt restructuring; (ii) 21
percent for laying off excess personnel; and (iii) 32 percent for institutional development
activities. The average number of loan tranches for the qualified Obras was three, varying from
two (in case of small Obras) to six (in case of large ones). Seventy-five percent of the tranches,
corresponding to a loan amount of US$184.7 million or 66 percent of total commitment, are
already executed or being executed. All the Obras, except for one, have complied with their loan
conditions. The failing Obra had its loan canceled and is now repaying it on an accelerated basis.
38.   All, except for three6 of the qualifying Obras have shown signs of success in improving
their financial accounts, increasing their internal efficiency, and developing adequate systems to
comply with new standards and regulations. The evaluation below includes only the 20 Obras
which had executed at least one tranche of their respective loan at the time of project closing.
The evaluation compares the situations before and after project implementation, and includes data
from the last monitoring that was carried out at the end of 1998 and beginning of 1999.
39.   Debt and financial restructuring.  For the 25 Obras Sociales which have started
implementing a restructuring program (and for which data are available), total debts decreased by
25 percent, from $578 million to $436 million, and the debt-equity ratio was reduced from 22.82
to 1.99. Of the 20 Obras evaluated, 16 had debts and needed to use part of the restructuring loan
to repay them. Eleven of them had disbursed more than 50 percent of these funds at the time of
the evaluation, and 5 had disbursed less than 50 percent. As shown in the table below, the
financial indicators of the 16 Obras improved substantially, particularly those which had
disbursed more than 50 percent of their respective loan.
6 As mentioned, one of the three unsuccessful Obras had its loan canceled for lack of compliance. The
other two Obras (Agriculture and Textile) achieved poor results because revenue per beneficiary was too
low, and, in the case of the textile sector, because of a sharp reduction in the workforce over the last few
years.
10



FINANCIAL       Average 16~r :-a. -6  Aver?age ;f etbe JI -        er  11r1he ,-  .
. .ICA.OfS        O-"           ,Gau5G -                            i -e thac 50 p.Ueent
WORKING CAPITAL   Increased by 207          Increased by 214%, from   Increased by 145%, from
from (-) $103 million to  $91 million to (+) $104  (-) $11 million to (+) $5
(+) $110 million      million                   million
LIQUIDITY RATIO   Increased from 0.67 to   Increased from 0.65 to 1.8    Increased from 0.75 to 1.14
(a ratio of 1.5 is  1.65
considered satisfactory)
DEBTS WITH        Decreased by 15%, from   Decreased by 19%, from  Decreased by 0.4%, from
PROVIDERS         $130 to $ 110 million  $102 to $83 million      $27.5 to $27.4 million
Provider payment delay  Decreased by 20 days,    Decreased by 25 days, from    Decreased by 9 days, from
from 104 to 84 days   106 to 81 days            101 to 92 days
LEGAL DEBTS        Decreased by 44%, from   Decreased by 49%, from $81   Decreased by 22%, from
$86.8 million to $48.5    million to $41 million  $7.4 million to $5.8 million
million
40.    Net equity improved dramatically for the 12 Obras that had negative net equity and a
debt-equity ratio superior to 2 at the start of the project. For this group of Obras, net equity
increased by 429 percent, from (-) $43 million to (+) $144 million. The debt-equity ratio changed
from (-) 9.35 to (+) 2.16. The return on assets improved from a negative return of 1.1 percent to a
positive return of 1.48 percent. Their equity mobilization ratio improved from 3.83 to 0.69.
41.    Improved internal efficiency.  Qualifying Obras were also required to improve their
economic and financial performance by reducing personnel costs, renegotiating contracts with
providers, selling off inefficient assets, and developing new management methods and systems.
Of the 25 Obras Sociales that started implementing a restructuring program (and for which data
are available), 14 (i.e., 56 percent) had an operating deficit. At the time of the project evaluation,
four of them were running a surplus, three of which had disbursed more than 50 percent of their
restructuring loan. All Obras under the program had to strengthen their organizational and
managerial capacity. For many Obras, this meant a profound change in their organization and in
the way they were running the business.
42.    All of the twenty-five Obras that started implementing a restructuring program  were
required to cut back personnel expenditures. A variety of measures were, and are being used by
the Obras for that purpose, including laying off excess personnel, modifying salary scales and
contracts, and transferring staff by contracting out medical services. An amount of US$57
million from loan proceeds has so far been used to pay severance packages to 5,575 staff,
representing an average cost of $10,300 per person. As a result, the administrative cost for the 20
Obras under review decreased by 42 percent on average, and by 56 percent for the 12 Obras
which executed more than 50 percent of their restructuring loan.
43.    Under their restructuring plans, many Obras ceased operating costly and inefficient
medical services and contracted them out to public and private providers. For the 20 Obras under
review, the share of contracted services increased from 65 percent to 76 percent, and up to 84
percent in the case of the 12 Obras with more than 50 percent of execution of the loan. Only a
small group of national Obras Sociales owned medical clinics with bed capacity. Four of them
joined the restructuring program and three were required to contract out these clinics to qualify
for a restructuring loan.
44.    The majority of Obras also modified their payment methods to providers, shifting from
costly fee-for-service payment systems to more cost-effective ones, such as payment per-capita,
11



per module, or for a fixed quantity of services (when the number of beneficiaries was variable
and uncertain). In the case of pharnaceuticals, Obras were required to use a reference list of
essential drugs, to pay providers per capita, and to implement drug information campaigns
targeted to family doctors and patients.
45.    Compliance with new regulations and standards. The 31 Obras that qualified for a
restructuring loan had to implement institutional development activities to comply with the new
regulations and standards of the Superintendency, as well as to improve their management and
information systems. A third of loan proceeds were used to finance five main lines of action: (a)
improving health care services (21 percent of expenditures); (b) strategic development (6
percent); (c) organizational development (16 percent); (d) training in organization and medical
care (6 percent); and (e) marketing and commercialization (14 percent).
46.    Together with the financial restructuring of Obras, the most significant change mandated
by the restructuring programs has been the profound modification in the health care model
provided by the Obras. First, a majority of Obras had to extend and improve their medical
coverage to comply with the law, that is to say, to provide the standard health benefits package
(PMO) to all their beneficiaries and spend at least 80 percent of total income on medical
coverage. Second, primary care services were strengthened with more emphasis placed on family
doctors. Third, the Obras' networks of providers were re-appraised on the basis of their quality.
Medical audit systems were also improved in order to avoid under-provision of services and
ensure quality and continuity of services. Finally, contracts with providers were renegotiated in
order to ensure: (a) guaranteed coverage of the PMO to all beneficiaries of each Obra; (b) the use
of co-payments according to the law (including the waiver of co-payments for maternal and child
care and oncology); (c) coverage of emergency and home care services, especially in rural areas;
and (d) protection from malpractice. These contracts, which also included a three-year budget for
the medical services that were provided, were closely monitored under the restructuring program.
47.   Another major result was the strengthening of the organizational and managerial capacity
of the Obras. It was achieved through the contracting of management consultant firms and the
training of the personnel of the Obras. Computerized financial and monitoring systems, costing
US$17 million so far, have also been established. For the beneficiaries, this also meant a true
improvement in the administrative handling of their care through the use of magnetic cards, faster
handling of their files and complaints, round-the-clock telephone lines, and the computerization
of the clinical histories of each patient. Marketing and communications also had to be developed
in all of the 31 Obras, as these functions did not exist prior to the reform (beneficiaries were
previously captive affiliates).
48.   Impact on the perceived quality of care. As shown by the results of the consumer poll of
May 1999, beneficiaries of the Obras that were restructured are, in general, more satisfied with
the quality of the medical and administrative services provided than are those of Obras that were
not restructured. In addition, beneficiary satisfaction is higher for the Obras which have
completed more than half of their restructuring plan, showing that the restructuring of Obras has
an immediate and visible impact for the beneficiaries. Thirty-one percent of the population
affiliated with Obras that have disbursed more than 50 percent of their restructuring loan think
that the quality of services has improved as opposed to 23 percent on average for the mandatory
insurance system as a whole. The following table summarizes the perception of quality forObras
that have disbursed 50 percent (Obras 50+) of their restructuring loans relative to the universe of
all Obras (whether restructuring or not). It is worth noting that the level of satisfaction with the
Obras Sociales as a whole is quite high, at above 70 percent in all cases.
12



AsPe  o D      A   r  :                                    a       o       fiOd
Quality of health care provided         All Obras                   86.6%
___baSG 50+               O8WN
Quantity of health services covered     All Obras                   81.1%
Quality of medical staff                All Obras                   85.5%
Obras         -   -0+3
Appointments close to date requested     All Obras                  6.3%
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  7bras   50+  7 %
Ease of administrative procedures        All Obras                  73.9%
Ob* 50+                    79j1%
Quantity of health staff and clinics available  All Obras           76.3%
(iii) Restructuring of INSSJP
49.    Debt restructuring.  At the end of December 1998, INSSJP's remaining debts to
providers and financial institutions were either cancelled (in the case of the debt with ANSeS) or
transferred to the Treasury through the Presidential Decree 197/97. However, INSSJP financial
accounts will continue to show liabilities because of a clause specifying that debts prior to March
1997 will be transferred to the Treasury only once they are audited by the Comptroller's Office.
Such verification is underway. INSSJP succeeded in eliminating half of its debt to providers
during the project lifetime, which decreased from US$521 million in August 1995 to US$238
million in December 1998. The volume of debts cancelled was in reality more important since
1NSSJP accumulated further debts throughout project implementation to finance its high
operating deficit.
50.    Internal efficiency.  INSSJP succeeded in achieving a significant reduction in its
monthly operating deficit, which reached the order of US$7 million at the end of 1998 (the
operational deficit was estimated on the basis of a monthly revenue of US$200 million, which the
Government guaranteed to INSSJP by decree 197/97). The savings plan that INSSJP intended to
develop so as to meet the zero-deficit condition of the third Tranche Release could only partially
be implemented, as INSSJP's proposal to contract out medical services to large networks of
providers was suspended due to legal challenges. INSSJP intended to pay a monthly capita of
US$21 to large networks of providers which would have managed nearly all the medical services
provided to its 4 million beneficiaries; the latter would have been able to choose their network
once a year. By transferring all the financial risks associated with the provision of care to the
networks, INSSJP would have only focused on its regulatory functions. Such a plan would have
immediately generated monthly savings of the order of US$3.4 million. In addition, INSSJP was
planning to contract out in a similar way all the remaining medical services that had not been
included in the first proposal (e.g., geriatrics, psychiatry, hemodialisis, etc), thus generating
further savings.
51.    INSSJP launched the bidding process for the contracting out of its medical services at the
end of 1998. It finalized the evaluation, and in doing so complied with the condition of the
Special Adjustment Loan. INSSJP signed the contracts with the three winning networks in early
1999, but could not go further as the process was challenged in court immediately after the
signing of contracts. Some 4 or 5 more legal cases were filed against INSSJP in the next months.
The most important one relates to the allegation that INSSJP has not provided sufficient
information to its beneficiaries to allow them to select their network well. As of today, it is
impossible to say when or whether INSSJP will be able to resume the contracting process.
13



52.   Deficit reduction was mostly achieved through: (i) reducing personnel expenditures (of
the order of US$8.5 million per month); (ii) renegotiating contracts with health care providers, in
particular for laboratory and ambulances services and pharmaceuticals (around US$36.1 million
per month); and (iii) transferring to the Secretariat for Social Development the cost of health care
for non-contributing pensioners (US$12 million per month).
53.   Monthly personnel expenditures were reduced by 27 percent, from US$3 1.9 million in
1995 (or 12.9 percent of total operating costs) to US$23.4 million at the end of 1998 (or 11.3
percent of total costs). INSSJP staff was reduced by 34.5 percent, from 14,500 to 9,500
employees. Severance packages were financed through a fund which had been created by the
Government to finance personnel restructuring in the public and parastatal sectors.
54.   Monthly pharmaceutical expenditures were reduced from US$32 million in 1995 to
US$27.5 million at the end of 1998, corresponding to a decrease in expenditures per beneficiary
from US$7.32 to US$6.77. This reduction was achieved through negotiating a payment system
per capita for almost all drugs with the pharmaceutical industry, which meant transferring all
risks to the industry.
55.   Institutional development.  INSSJP did not carry out most of the institutional
development activities that had initially been contemplated. For example, INSSJP did not
implement the recommendations of a study on the restructuring or outsourcing of the only two
clinics it owns. Since INSSJP was contemplating a radical transformation of the institution
through the contracting of its health services, many of the recommendations of the studies on its
institutional restructuring were not directly applicable anymore. Most of the recommendations
were, however, included in the design of the contracts with the three provider networks. For
example, although INSSJP did not adopt the new health benefit package and new regulations that
had been recommended by experts, it did include them in the contracts with the provider
networks.
56.   Quality of health services. INSSJP carried out a beneficiary satisfaction survey in
December 1998 with program funding. Results of the survey show that a high percentage of
INSSJP's beneficiaries (96 percent) is satisfied with the quality of the services provided by the
institution. Ninety-four percent of the persons interviewed are satisfied with the quality of
inpatient care and 95 percent with the quality of medical staff.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
57.   The following political, economic and administrative factors affected the regular
implementation of the program.
58.   Introduction of competition among Obras Sociales Sindicales faced resistance by interest
groups which were comfortable with closed market niches. Such resistance included: (i) lobbying
to issue regulations creating disincentives for people to transfer. An example of such practices
would be for people to leave part of their contribution in the Obra with which they had previously
affiliated; and (ii) lobbying the supervisory authority to introduce practices to increase red tape to
hamper the migration of enrollees between Obras. Government authorities were able to handle
adequately most of such lobbying efforts. Of the 141,063 requests for transfers that were
reviewed by the supervisory agency, only 3,710 were rejected, and these, for valid reasons.
14



59.   Regulation of the Pre-pagas was somewhat resisted by the latter and led to difficult
discussions in the Senate. The draft legislation was, however, approved by a Senate Committee,
and is now with the Congress for approval. The draft legislation allowing competition between
Obras Sociales de Personal de Direcci6n and Pre-pagas has not yet been examined by Congress.
60.   INSSJP had three directors (interventores) during the course of the project. This created
several problems. First, plans developed and approved by one of the directors were not
necessarily followed by the next. Thus most studies drafted with support from the technical
assistance loan were never implemented. Second, many agreements already negotiated by one
director were reviewed by the second, and so on. This created uncertainty among providers and
delayed final negotiations of contracts.
61.   The decrease in employer contribution established by Presidential Decrees 492/95 and
494/95 implied a reduction of the order of US$10 million per month in INSSJP revenues. Such
reduction required unexpected additional efforts in cost reductions to comply with the zero-deficit
requirement of third Tranche Release. The delay in the actual transfer of responsibilities from
INSSJP to the winning provider networks have further prevented INSSJP from complying with
this condition.
62.   Lack of counterpart funding has not hampered the restructuring program of Obras
Sociales but could do so in the near future since the program would mostly rely on counterpart
funds after loan closing. Only US$135 million of the US$210 million of counterpart funds have
been so far transferred by the Government to the project restructuring fund for Obras Sociales.
63.   Evasion of payroll contributions and economic crisis reduced the financial sustainability
of INSSJP and of the Obras. The average monthly contribution to the Obras Sociales which
qualified for a restructuring loan, for example, decreased by 1.75 percent during project lifetime.
E. SUSTAINABILITY
64.   Competition among national Obras Sociales and INSSJP is considered by the major
stakeholders as a sustainable reform that is unlikely to be reversed. The reform was introduced
and consolidated through several Presidential Decrees, through regulations issued by the
Superintendency for Health Services, as well as through resolutions approved by INSSJP's Board
of Directors. Unless modified by legal instruments of a similar nature, these legal and regulatory
instruments ensure that the reform introduced is sustainable. More importantly, new rights and
expectations for both beneficiaries and Obras have been introduced that would be difficult to
constrain or reverse. According to the May 1999 consumer poll, eighty-one percent of the
persons enrolled in the system know that they have the right to change Obra and 725,000 persons
have exercised this right since it was granted. Seventy or so Obras have expressed their interest
in competing with INSSJP by registering as insurers for the elderly.
65.   The reform needs however to be consolidated in the next months to improve equity
among Obras Sociales and seek to ensure that those which cover a majority of the poor, high-risk
population have enough resources to finance the standard benefits package for all their
beneficiaries. Several important tasks remain to be completed to meet these objectives. First, the
sustainability of the enrollment database needs to be ensured. The most important determinant of
sustainability would be the decision to transfer the responsibility of its maintenance to the
Superintendency for Health Services, which has a higher and more direct stake in its use than the
15



ANSeS or the federal tax revenue office. Consolidation of the database would also require
further technical adjustments, especially with regard to maintenance and updating routines.
66.   The second area of consolidation is the introduction of additional risk-adjustment criteria
(family size, age, sex, residence) in the redistribution formula of the Solidarity Redistribution
Fund (FSR). Technical analysis and simulations have been already done, and the new
mechanisms are ready to be implemented. Their implementation would, however, only be
feasible and sustainable either if the amount assigned to the automatic redistribution is increased
or if the PMO is reduced (the PMO currently covers a very exhaustive list of services). The
redistribution criteria based on income and family size were calculated on the basis of expected
FSR revenues without contemplating increases in the total amount to be redistributed. The
financial destabilization of large Obras that was provoked by the introduction of a monthly
compensation per beneficiary (without increasing the amount to be redistributed) indicated that
the current level of automatic redistribution of funds is insufficient to ensure the financing of the
current PMO for all beneficiaries.
67.   The optimal strategy to increase the level of automatic redistribution to Obras would be
to extend automation to other parts of the FSR, thereby decreasing the practice of discretionary
subsidies to Obras. Although the recourse to such subsidies was significantly reduced, it was not
eliminated. The practice of discretionary subsidies undermines both the FSR objective of
promoting equity among Obras, and the financial objectives of the restructuring program of
Obras. It is indeed inconsistent to approve restructuring loans to some Obras against strict
compliance with the implementation of a restructuring plan with targets and benchmarks and, at
the same time, grant discretionary subsidies to other Obras without imposing benchmarks that
would help to improve their sustainability. Increasing the availability of funds for automatic
transfers could also be achieved by further improving the financing of complex care (through the
Special Program Agency - APE).  Ensuring the sustainability of such financing would also
require exploring avenues for re-insurance by Obras again catastrophic health expenditures.
Another strategy that might be envisaged to increase the revenues of the FSR could be to index
the contribution rate of the Obras to the FSR on the basis of average revenue per beneficiary.
68.   The challenge in designing a system  of solidarity contribution and redistribution
mechanisms among Obras is to find the right mechanism that would compensate for the true
differences in risks incurred by Obras without compensating for their poor management and
inefficiencies. In that respect, the proposal currently being aired to allow for a retention of part of
the beneficiary's total contribution in the Obra of origin, in case the beneficiary transfers to
another Obra (the latter therefore receiving only part of the total contribution), would create
disincentives for efficient management of Obras and would significantly reduce the scope for
competition.
69.   Even if not yet fully enacted and enforced, the establishment of a single regulatory
framework was a major step towards improving the sustainability of the system. The challenge is
now to ensure that existing regulations are enforced and new ones (such as guidelines and
regulations for financial crisis prevention and resolution) are issued. Although the sustainability
of the PMO is ensured to the extent that the concept is now well established and that it is
routinely used in the marketing of health plans, there are, however, no clear and efficient
mechanisms to enforce compliance by Obras Sociales. The same applies to other regulations.
As mentioned earlier, the SSS needs to further strengthen its capacity to enforce compliance with
key regulations by Obras Sociales (and, in the near future, by Pre-pagas) and to protect consumer
rights.
16



70.   Equally important was the introduction of mechanisms to empower consumers to claim
their rights and express their level of satisfaction with their insurance carrier. As previously
mentioned, consumer services (toll-free phone lines, claims, etc.) have been established for the
first time by the Superintendency as well as by some Obras. As part of the conditions of the
Special Structural Adjustmnent Loar?, the Superintendency will complete the publication in July
1999 of the first annual public report on the evolution of the system of national Obras Sociales
and on the characteristics and performance of each Obra. This report, of which the first volume
has already been published, will be made available to beneficiaries at no cost in all the Obras
Sociales and at the SSS. The SSS will also publish and distribute widely the results of the
consumer poll carried out in May 1999. It is expected that the Superintendency will continue to
carry out similar consumer poll to monitor evolution in consumer satisfaction. Many of the
Obras that qualified for a loan have also started implementing regular satisfaction surveys to
obtain continuous feedback from their beneficiaries.
71.   The restructuring program of Obras Sociales succeeded in ensuring the financial and
technical viability of the majority of Obras which qualified for a loan. Since these Obras
represent a significant share of total enrollees, the impact on the sustainability of the entire system
of Obras is therefore not negligible. Compliance with minimum standards was ensured,
especially with regard to provision of the PMO, and the obligation to spend more than 80 percent
of revenues on medical services and less than 12 percent on administration. The restructuring
program also introduced an important cultural change in the system by developing a new
management culture among Obras as well as new transparent and accountable systems for
funding to Obras. Although the impact of such a change cannot be measured in the short term (as
the continuous practice of subsidies to a few Obras demonstrates), transparent and sustainable
mechanisms were established for the first time in the system and a significant proportion of
Obras have adhered to them.
72.   However, many of the Obras which did not qualify for a loan are experiencing today
acute financial difficulties which, unless the crisis is adequately resolved, would pose a threat to
the sustainability of the entire system. Many of these Obras have less than 10,000 beneficiaries.
The market did not consolidate spontaneously when competition was introduced, as shown by the
limited reduction in the number of Obras in the system (which decreased from 360 in 1994 to 290
in 1999). Their financial situation is likely to worsen with the increased capacity of autonomous
public hospitals to charge them  for services provided to their enrollees.  Ensuring the
sustainability of the system would mean introducing in the near future: (i) regulations for crisis
resolution and prevention that would include regulations for mergers, absorption, association and
liquidation of Obras, as well as capital requirements and solvency margins so as to ensure
minimum standards of financial sustainability; and (ii) transparent and adequate funding
mechanisms for Obras in financial difficulties, similar to the ones developed through the
restructuring program of Obras Sociales. The issuance of these regulations, satisfactory to the
IBRD, is one of the conditions of the Special Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln. 4405-AR).
73.   The restructuring program of INSSJP has not yet ensured the financial and technical
sustainability of the institution. The main reasons are: (a) INSSJP is receiving US$150-$160
million per month of revenues, i.e. US$40-$50 million less per month than the Government had
agreed to guarantee; and (b) most of the measures aimed at improving its internal efficiency were
not implemented because INSSJP was contemplating an alternative plan (i.e., the contracting out
' The Loan, amounting to US$2.5 billion, was approved by the Bank in November 1998 (Loan 4405-AR)
as part of package to mitigate the effects of the current international financial instability on the Argentine
economy and protect vulnerable groups.
17



of the management of medical services to large network of providers) that would have radically
altered its mandate and organization. In case this plan is not implemented, the financial crisis of
INSSJP would deepen. INSSJP would then need to implement an alternative restructuring plan,
including transferring back to the State the responsibility for the provision of unfunded, non-
medical social programs.
74.   Finally, a lot remains to be done to ensure greater equity in access to care among the
insured, by extending mandatory health insurance coverage to workers in the formal sector who
earn less than $240 per month. This group (estimated at 800,000 beneficiaries) currently has no
access to health insurance coverage since their salary is below the threshold level for mandatory
health insurance. They can receive coverage only if they pay the difference between their salary
and the threshold levels, which most do not do. A decree was proposed to the Government which
makes health insurance coverage mandatory for this population at the same level of employer and
employee contribution as for the rest of the insured population. While the thrust of the decree
was not disputed, it was rejected because of the fear that, at a time of severe economic recession,
this would imply an unbearable increase in labor cost for employers.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
75.   Bank performance in the identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision of the
Health Insurance Reform Program was highly satisfactory. The Bank responded in a timely
fashion to the Government's request for financial and technical support in the overhaul of its
health insurance system. The project was innovative and the appraisal team was cognizant of the
technical complexity and political risks involved in the reform program. The Bank helped define
a long-term vision of a more equitable and efficient health financing system through its sector
work, "Facing the Challenge of Health Insurance Reform," and through its dialogue with the
Government on the goals and instruments of the reform.  The Bank's financial support
significantly contributed to restoring the financial health of the compulsory health insurance
system.
76.   Continuity of Bank staff and consultants was maintained from  preparation to
implementation. Bank staff were particularly effective in establishing partnerships with a broad
array of stakeholders, a strategy that has been instrumental to ensuring the sustainability of major
policy reforms. The Bank's global reach allowed it to bring a broad spectrum of international
skills and experience with health insurance to bear on the project. Finally, the Bank team is to be
credited for outstanding supervision of the program. On average, during project lifetime, a
supervision mission was carried out every three months (see Table 9 in annex), allowing the Bank
to keep abreast of changes and react to them speedily.
18



G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
77.   The Borrower's performance was also highly satisfactory. Project preparation and
implementation were carried out in a successful and collaborative way with the Bank team. The
Ministry of Health (the implementing agency) sought support outside the health sector and
maintained the practice of intersectoral collaboration throughout project lifetime. Despite strong
political pressure in a program that affected many interests, the Government handled the
pressures with flexibility while ensuring the maintenance of the agreed core program and
commitments established in the Letter of Development Policy. Continuity in the political
leadership, through the Minister of Health, was maintained throughout the lifetime of the
program. Lack of continuity in the management of the program was not particularly an issue,
except for the restructuring of INSSJP. The Borrower should also be commended on the degree
of professional capacity and political savvy that it brought to the achievement of the objectives of
the program, and for its continued commitment to improving the health insurance system.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
78.   The overall project outcome is considered satisfactory.  The policy reforms and
regulation component is considered satisfactory; most of the objectives having been met but, in
several instances, still needing completion and consolidation. The restructuring of Obras
Sociales is considered highly satisfactory, having achieved dramatic and sustainable
improvements in the way Obras conduct business. The restructuring of INSSJP is considered
partially satisfactory since the institution is still running an operating deficit.
79.   The ultimate objective of a reform program such as the one that has been implemented in
Argentina is an improvement in the access to health care provided to the insured population, and
ultimately in the quality of care. It is too early in the process to measure the end impact of the
project. The good intermediary results achieved so far, such as improved beneficiary satisfaction,
increased efficiency and equity in the use of spending on health care, introduction of checks and
balances in the system (including through the empowerment of consumers) are, however,
indicative that the reform program is on the right track.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
80.   Several follow-up operations are contemplated to consolidate the first phase of the health
insurance reform and to design and implement the second phase.
81.   First, the Government and the Bank have agreed to use savings of US$4.2 million of an
on-going Bank-supported operation, the Provincial Health Sector Development Project (Loan
3931-AR), towards consolidating some critical elements of the health insurance reform and
preparing the second phase of the reform. An amendment to Loan 3931-AR is being processed
for that purpose. The funds would be used for:
a. The design of pilot restructuring plans for the insurance funds that were not included in the
first restructuring program, such as provincial Obras Sociales, and Obras Sociales with less
19



than 10,000 beneficiaries. The design and implementation of these pilot programs would
help to clarify the specific issues faced by these three groups of social insurance funds, to
review alternatives for their restructuring, and to identify the support that could be provided
on a large scale by a second adjustment operation.
b. The institutional strengthening of the Superintendency for Health Services in the following
areas: (i) monitoring and control systems; and (ii) design and implementation of guidelines
and regulations to prevent and resolve financial crisis of social health insurance funds.
82.   Secondly, the Government has requested support from the Bank to design and implement
a health insurance plan for the non-insured poor in two pilot provinces. The loan amount is
estimated at US$4.8 million and would be financed through a Learning and Innovation Loan
(LIL). The project is being prepared and is expected to be presented to the Vice-Presidency for
the Latin America and the Caribbean Region for approval during FY2000. Important lessons
would be learned from the design and implementation of these two pilots that would help in their
replication on a larger scale.
83.   Thirdly, a second adjustment operation is being proposed for FY2001 to support the
implementation of the second phase of the health insurance reform. This operation would also
be accompanied by a Technical Assistance Loan. The second loan package would support the
following activities: (i) consolidation and extension of the policy and regulatory reforms; (ii)
restructuring of the social health insurance funds which have not benefited from the support of
the first operation, including the provincial health insurance funds; (iii) support to the merger,
acquisition and association of social insurance funds of less than 10,000 beneficiaries; and (iv)
development of provincial health insurance plans for the non-insured poor.
84.   Finally, a follow-up project to the first two Provincial Reforms Loans is being prepared,
with a special emphasis on hospital management autonomy, reform of provincial Obras Sociales,
and development of health insurance for the poor. In addition, the Government of the Province of
Buenos Aires has requested support from the Bank to design an adjustment operation for the
social sectors. The Bank is currently reviewing the Government's proposal.
J. KEY KESSONS LEARNED
85.   The implementation of the program provided many lessons for future adjustment
programs which involve difficult and politically sensitive reforms.
86.   At the project design stage, the focus should be on conditionality and not on specific
restructuring activities. Intensive discussions on conditionality also help to bring out clearly at
the beginning the areas of disagreement or resistance to change, and define the political space
within which the reform operation will take place. Using this lesson, the Bank team has
concentrated its early efforts on developing jointly with the Argentine authorities the
conditionality matrix and has allowed great flexibility with regard to specific instrumental
activities.
87.   The reform program must be developed so as to keep the long-run vision for change in
mind, but gets there through a series of practical, achievable steps. Experience from Argentina
and other countries with health insurance reform indicates that most countries in the region need
to move toward more equitable and efficient health insurance systems through a series of
carefully planned steps which together add up to a bold transformation, but may take 5-10 years
or longer to put in place.
20



88.    The reform must be built on broad, multi-agency support, not narrow sectoral backing.
The successes to date of the program have depended critically on political support from the
highest levels of the Argentine government, including the President; from a broad coalition of
ministries, including the Ministries of Health and of Economy and the Office of the Chief of
Cabinet; and from a substantial number of the social health insurance funds and health care
provider associations in the country. The Program committee for the loan has included
representatives of the Ministries of Health, Economy, and the Office of the Chief of Cabinet.
89.    Crucial institutional development must be assisted through long-term technical assistance
lending. The technical assistance loan was instrumental in building the institutional capacity to
develop the reform and in designing appropriate tools for its monitoring and evaluation.
90.   A key element of program success was the fact that it has been preceded by thorough
analytic work that helped establish clear and achievable goals for the reform program. Technical
clarity and transparency, especially with regards to the eligibility and Tranche Release criteria for
restructuring loans, was crucial in establishing a climate of trust and in reducing litigiousness.
Equally critical to project success was the intense supervision activity that allowed the Bank to
keep abreast of difficult political situations, and to adapt design to new conditions while making
sure that the core conditions were being met.
91.    Finally, while the best alternative for social health insurance could be that of a single
public insurer or a small number of insurance funds competing in a highly regulated environment,
this reform program demonstrated that a lot of progress can be made by introducing competition
and tight regulation in a system characterized by a large number of insurance funds.
21






PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Studies Included in Project
Table 6:   Project Financing
Table 7:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:   Bank Resources: Missions



Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial      Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies              -       D                                                 O
Sector Policies                                                     E l:i
Financial Objectives                                5 O                               5
Ipstitutional Development                          E                E                 El
Physical Objectives                 5               5               5
Poverty Reduction                   5 a                             E
Gender Issues                       a              E                O:i
Other Social Objectives             5                               5                 5
Environmental Objectives            5              I                 5 -
Public Sector Management                            5                5                5
Private Sector Development                          5               5                 5
Other (specify)                                      l 5             5                a
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
(/)                      (/)                       (/)
e               ~El                         E
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactory         Satisfactory                Deficient
(1)                     (e)                       (/)
Identification                                               5                        E
Preparation Assistance                                      E                          ]
Appraisal                                                    5                        5
Supervision                         j                        5                         5



Highly
D. Borrower Performance                        satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                                   C 
Implementation                                                                E [
Covenant Compliance                           C                               El
Operation (if applicable)                                                     El
Higl                                               Higl
E. Assessment of Outcome               satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
El                               El                C



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Lo/cdi t,,,itl                   Pu-;  07                         0  rpose  Yea o  S-tat
Preceding operations
1. Provincial Health  Strengthening policy-making and capacity of     1995     Supervision
Sector Development    central and provincial MoHs, improvements in
(PRESSAL)             hospital efficiency, and pilot imnplementation of
management autonomy in public hospitals.
2. Provincial Reform  Support an overall environment of incentives for  1995   Closed
restructuring provincial public finances. Accelerate
reform in ten provinces in: (i) tax structure and
administration; (ii) budgetary and administrative
controls; (iii) downsizing public employment; (iv)
improving efficiency of transfers to municipal
government; and (v) privatizing public enterprises
and banks.
3. Provincial Reform 2   Help four Argentine provinces (Rio Negro, Salta,  1997  Supervision
San Juan, and Tucuman) reform and restructure
their governments so as to ensure an efficient and
responsive delivery of public services (notably
social services) within fiscally sound policies.
4. Special Structural  Mitigating the deleterious effect of the international  1998  Supervision
Adjustment Loan       fiscal instability on the economy and protecting
vulnerable groups.
Following operations
1. Health Insurance for   Provision of necessary technical assistance and  2000  Preparation
the Poor (LIL)        inputs in 2 pilot provinces to help design and
implement a health insurance scheme for the non-
insured poor.
2. Health Insurance   Consolidate and extend results obtained by the first  2001  Proposed
Refonn SAL 2          Health Insurance Reform Project (Lns. 4002/3-AR)
in the following areas: (a) policy reforms and
regulatory development; (b) restructuring of
provincial and national health insurance funds; (c)
merger, acquisition and association of health
insurance funds of less than 10,000 beneficiaries;
and (d) health insurance for the poor.
3. Health Insurance   The project would provide the necessary technical  2001   Proposed
Reforn TA 2           assistance and inputs to design and implement the
second health insurance reform program, and build
institutional capacity to sustain the reforms.



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Dat -an                        lae _ t/
______________________-,at.-t e imate-- -I
1. Identification (Executive Project Summary)    March, 1995            March, 1995
2. Preparation                             March, 1995-February, 1996    March, 1995-Febriary, 1996
3. Appraisal                               June, 1995                   June, 1995
4. Negotiations                            February, 1996               February, 1996
5. Letter of Development Policy            March 26, 1996               March 26, 1996
6. Board Presentation                      April 25, 1996               April 25, 1996
7. Signing                                 April26, 1996                April26, 1996
8. Effectiveness                           April, 1996                  July 12, 1996 (Ln. 4002)
___ __ __ __ __ ___ __ __ __ __ ___ __ __ December 3, 1998  (Ln. 4003)
9. First Tranche Release                   July, 12, 1996 (Ln. 4002)    July 12, 1996 (Ln. 4002)
10. Second Tranche Release                 July, 1997 (Ln. 4002)        July 23, 1997 (Ln. 4002)
11. Third Tranche Release                  June, 1998 (Ln. 4003)        December, 1998 (Ln. 4003)
12. Project Completion                     June, 1998                   December, 1998
13. Loan Closing                           (Ln 4002) June 30, 1997     (Ln 4002) July 23, 1997
(Ln 4003) May 31, 1998      (Ln 4003) December 31, 1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY1997         FY1998       FY1999
Appraisal Estimate                   250.0           100.0
Actual                               150.0           100.0        100.0
Actual as % of Estimate              40.0%           100.0%       --
Date of Final Disbursement:          December 3, 1998
Disbursements
3 300
200                                                A pp_- Appraisal
100                     ..Estim ate
: 0O~                                            .-u - l A ctual
FY 1997    FY 1998    FY 1999
Fiscal Year



Table 5: Studies Included in Project
Policy and Regulation Component
1. Institutional Strengdtening   Establishment of a unit in charge of the analysis, monitoring and evaluation   Completed  (i) Strengthening of the MSAS capacity in analysis
Regulation of the Health   of health policies, with a special focus on the health insurance reform                and evaluation; (ii) establishment and maintenance
Sector                    program.                                                                                of a database on Obras Sociales; and (iii)
Development of database and information systems on national Obras                      development of policy and regulatory instruments
Sociales (Obras'beneficiaries and revenues, labor market, etc.)                        for the health insurance reform.
2. Solidarity Redistribution    Monitoring of FSR revenues and design of the redistribution formula to  Completed  (i) Implementation of the automatic redistribution
Fund                       compensate Obras for differences in income. Identification of the relative             system of the FSR based on income; (ii) improved
impact on cost of other risk factors such as family size, age, sex, and                knowledge of FSR revenue and transparency in the
residence.                                                                             use of funds; (iii) identification of formulas to risk-
adjust by family size, age, sex and residence, and of
their respective impact on the system of Obras
Sociales.
3. Enrollment Database    Design and implementation of a database of the beneficiaries enrolled in the  Completed  (i) Census conducted in which 7 million
system of national Obras Sociales.                                                     beneficiaries were registered; the database is
incomplete and needs further adjustment
4. Regulatory Framework    Designing the regulatory framework, including: (i) the draft law on  Completed         (i) Draft law on Pre-pagas approved by the Senate
regulation of Pre-pagas and on competition between Pre-pagas and Obras                 Committee; (ii) mandatory provision of the PMO
de Personal de Direccion; (ii) the content of the PMO and the analysis of             imposed to national Obras and Pre-pagas; (iii)
complementary health plans; (iii) regulations for competition between                  competition allowed between Obras de Personal de
Obras de Personal de Direccion and Professional Associations; and (iv) the             Direcci6n and Professional Associations; and (iv)
draft law allowing competition between Obras de Personal de Direccion                  draft law allowing for competition between Pre-
and Professional Associations. In addition, an evaluation of the technical             pagas and Obras de Personal de Direcci6n
and financial feasibility of setting up a health insurance plan for the self-          prepared.
employed was caried out.
5. Strengthening of the   Design and implementation of information and management systems (MIS)  Completed       (i) Improvement in the management and
Special Programs Agency   for the Special Program Agency (APE) and training of APE and Obras'                     transparency of APE funding; (ii) institutional
personnel in the use of the new MIS.                                                   strengthening of APE; and (iii) MIS established
within APE and common procedures established for
all Obras.



Table 5: Studies Included in the Project                                                                                               Page 2 of 4
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
6. Strengthening of the    Dlesign and implemnentation of the regulatory frarnework, including: (i) the    Completed    ~ ~ TeSSS adopted its strategic plan and issuedl
Superintendency for Health    organization, strategic plan, human resources, management and information            prudential and consumer regulations in 1998.
Services (SSS)             systems, and communication strategy of the Superintendency for HealthI
Services (SSS); and (ii) the design of prudential and consumer protection
regulations.
Implementation of media campaigns about free election of Obras Sociales.   Completed    Media campaigns implemented (81% of the
population is now aware of their right to choose
among Obras).
Obras Sociales Component
1. Design of Legal                                                                          Completed throughout    Agreement on implementation targets and loan
Agreements for Subsidiary                                                                   the life of the program    tranches.
Loans and Restructuring
Plans
2. Reports on fulfillment of   Reports on each Obra Social's fulfillment of objectives in the following  Completed according to   Targets and conditions complied by each Obra
loan conditions by Obras   areas: (i) institutional strengthening; (ii) reconversion of personnel; (iii)  each Obra Social  Social.
Sociales                   economic and financial situation; and (iv) medical services.     throughout the life of
the program
3. Reports of verification of   Reports from audits carried out in the field.               Completed throughout    Targets met for each tranche, as certified by the
fulfillment of loan conditions                                                              the life of the program  monitoring agency for each Obra Social.
by Obras Sociales
4. Monthly Progress Reports                                                                 Completed throughout
from the Program                                                                            the life of the program
Coordinating Unit
5. Internal documents from  Methodological guidelines and reports from each Sector Specialist.  Completed throughout    Helped determine unit costs, utilization rates, and
the Coordinating Unit                                                                       the life of the program  other standard indicators for the health insurance
system.



Table 5: Studies Included in the Project                                                                                               Page 3 of 4
INSSJP Component
1. Pharmaceutical Study    Analysis, definition and costing of a strategy for provision of  Completed in May,      Although all the conclusions of the study were not
pharmaceuticals to INSSJP ambulatory and oncology patients.      1997                   considered, INSSJP reduced its spending on
Recommendations to INSSJP authorities on contract negotiations for                      pharmaceuticals by $5 million/month through
pharmaceuticals.                                                                        negotiating a contract with the pharmaceutical
industry.
2. Restructuring and/or    Diagnosis of the actual situation of both clinics and identification of  Completed in June,  No impact.
externalization of INSSJP's    alternatives for their restructuring and/or externalization.  1997
two policlinics in the city of                                                                                     Recommendations of the study were not considered
Rosario                                                                                                            by INSSJP.
3. Strategic plan for the  Formulation of a strategic plan for systems and organizational development   Strategic plan  Recommendations were not implemented as INSSJP
institution's organization and   of INSSJP at the central and local levels, as well as technical assistance for   completed in May, 1997   was developing another alternative (i.e. contracting
systems                    implementation of the proposals.                                                        out the management of its medical services to large
entities) which would have radically changed
NSSJP's organization and systems.
4. Contracting out of the  Design of the mechanisms for contracting out ambulance services for  Completed in July, 1997  Although the conclusions were not considered,
programmed and non-        programmed and non-programmed patients in the Metropolitan Area (Local                   INSSJP renegotiated the amounts and terms of
prograrnmed ambulance      offices: VI-Capitol; VIII-San Martin; X-Lanus; and XXIX-Mor6n)                           contracts with providers, for a savings of $2
services                                                                                                           million/month.
5. Model of Medical Care   Formulation of a new model of medical care, consistent with the new  Completed in October,   Partial Impact.
management policies (contracting out all medical services), clarifying the  1998
content and scope of the application of these policies, and the analysis and
definition of the benefits provided. Audit of the second-level health
providers.
6. Social Communication    Definition of publicity strategies, diffusion, communication and education    It was decided to not  No impact.
campaigns targeted at stakeholders in the health sector, health authorities,    execute this technical
medical technicians and professionals, Obras Sociales and any other actors   assistance
linked to the health sector.



Table 5: Studies Included in the Project                                                                                              Page 4 of 4
Study            Puose as Defnwod at Appa WikReddfied                                      tat                           Ipt of Study
7. Definition of new       (i) Institutional and legal framework; (ii) model of medical care and  Completed in     INSSJP initiated the call for bidding for entities
management systems for the   obligations of the entities managing medical services; (iii) Program of  November, 1998  managing medical services (of levels 1-3).
care of INSSJP's          Integrated Medical Care; (iv) quality standards for medical services; (v)                Contracts were signed, yet implementation of the
beneficiaries              calculation of the payments per capita; (vi) requirements of services for                new system was suspended by a legal issue. INSSJP
providers' networks; (vii) basic requirements of the information system for             appealed and the legal case is pending.
entities managing medical services; and (viii) criteria and methodology for
evaluating the management capacity of the entities.
8. Legal standards         Collection, analysis and consolidation of all resolutions signed by INSSJP;   Completed in July, 1998   The study and activity were implemented
elaboration of a computerized program for registration of legal standards,              satisfactorily.
including the subject and date of approval; and training on the use of the
program.
9. Diagnosis and           Diagnosis and restructuring of the "Probienestar Program"; development    Technical assistance  Technical assistance was carried out, but without
restructuring of social    of baseline data for a management system to attract new beneficiaries;  completed on April 30,   impact. Recommendations were not implemented.
programs                   restructuring of other social programs; terms of reference for the  1999
development of a national database on social services provided by INSSJP.
10. Refining the monitoring   Improvement in the monitoring and evaluation systems, and in INSSJP's  Completed in March  New monitoring systems were implemented.
land accounting systems     accounting plan.                                                 1998l
andlaccounting systems     accounting plan.                                                 1998                    The new accounting plan was developed but not
implemented since this would have required a
complete reformulation of INSSJP's information
systems.
11. Obligations imposed in    Verification of compliance with the obligation of payment cancellation.  Completed in  The study was completed satisfactorily, and verified
contracts with financial                                                                    September 1998          INSSJP's compliance with its financial obligations.
auditors of INSSJP
12. Beneficiary Satisfaction   INSSJP Beneficiary Satisfaction Survey.                      Completed in December  The study provided knowledge about the level of
Survey                                                                                      1998                    satisfaction of the beneficiaries.
13. Contracting of a       Monitoring the evaluation process for the contracting out of the  Completed in January  The contracting of the procurement agency ensured
procurement agency         management of medical services to management entities.            1999                  transparency in the evaluation of bids.
14. Monitoring of medical    (i) Registering and monitoring of medical services provided by the  Not implemented   No impact
services                   contracted entities; (ii) control of service utilization; (iii) contracting
agreements between providers and beneficiaries and monitoring
requirements; and (iv) evaluation of the quality of services provided and
verification of compliance with agreements.



Table 6: Project Financing
r o    S DS    X   Loat         Pore;'tlg,0:i    Tota      Local'X!  Forig            Total'
!BRDi DA                   -     ~ 350.0           350.0                     350.0         350.0
Domestk                    -         ~~~~~~~~~400.0                -325.0
- Transfrs W the210.0                        210.0        135.0                      135.0
-~a,*ceIathrnof190.0                         190.0        190.0                      190.0
IN1tSS~40000s
TOA                      4100.   50      .0270.0               1325.0        35.065.0



Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section    Covenant    Present                          Description of                    Comments
type       status                           covenant
4002/3-AR     2.02(b)         3            C       The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter
maintain in Banco de la Naci6n on terns and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from
the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the
Deposit Account.
4002/3-AR     2.02(c)         3            C       The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the
provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement.
4002/3-AR     2.02(d)         3            C       No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account unless the
Bank shall be satisfied: (i) with the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent
with the objectives of the Programn and with the fiscal measures
for 1996, 1997 and 1998 set forth in the Letter of Sector Policy;
and (iii) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.
14002/3-AR     3.01(a)         9           C       The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved
in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
4002/3-AR     3.01(b)         9            C       Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
4002/3-AR     3.01(c)         9            C       The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the First or
Second Tranche which would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken
under the Program.
4002/3-AR     3.02(a)         I            C       The Borrower shall have the Deposit Account audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
4002/3-AR     3.02 (b)        I            C       The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than 4 months after the date of the Bank's
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such
audit
4002-AR       3.03            3            C       The Borrower shall, after the disbursement of the proceeds of the
First and Second Tranches has been made, make available to the
UEC for the execution of the Program resources equivalent to,
respectively, $300 and $225 million; provided, however, that
unless the Bank otherwise agrees, not more than $350 million
equivalent of the aggregate of said resources shall be used for the
restructuring of INSSJP of which not more than $150 million
equivalent shall be used for purposes other than cancellation of
debts to financial institutions.



'A  wt        etim      Coesn          r~    J"f.sit* 
4003-AR       3.03            3            C       The Borrower shall, after the disbursement of the proceeds of the
Loan has been made, make available to the UEC for the
execution of the Program resources equivalent to $225 million,
provided, however, that unless the Bank otherwise agrees, not
more than $50 million equivalent of said resources shall be used
for the restructuring of INSSJP, the entirety of which shall be
used for purposes other than cancellation of debts to financial
institutions.
4002/3-AR     3.04(b)         5            C       The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the UEC will be managed by
a national director and that the sub-units and the finance and
administration section of the UEC will be managed by staff with
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank; (ii) the
Program Committee will be chaired by the national director of
the UEC and will have a composition acceptable to the Bank;
(iii) the UEC will ensure the execution of the Program in
accordance with the Operational Manual as approved by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement; (iv) the
UEC and the Program Committee will not authorize loans in
connection with the first three reorganization plans of Obras
Sociales to be financed under the Program and thereafter with
respect to all reorganization plans of Obras Sociales involving
proposed loans in excess of $1 0,000,000 equivalent, unless the
Bank shall have provided its no-objection to said loans; and (v)
the UEC will provide to the Bank on a quarterly basis a report on
the progress achieved in the reorganization of all Obras Sociales
receiving loans out of the resources referred to in Section 3.03 of
this Agreement and on the progress of all aspects of the reform
of INSSJP, said reports to be of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank may reasonably request.
4002-AR       3.05            1            C       The Borrower shall have the reports on the availability and use
of the resources referred to in para. 2 of Sched. 3 to this
Agreement audited no later than 4 months after the date of
disbursement of the First Tranche.
l 4003-AR     3.05            1            C       The Borrower shall have the reports on the availability and use
of the resources referred to in para. 2 of Sched. 3 to this
Agreement audited no later than 4 months after the date of
disbursement of the Second Tranche



Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stgeof                           ?aadAta
weeks        S($0          Wek
Identification to Pre-Appraisal    0.0            0.0          18.8         64.5
Pre-Appraisal to Appraisal         34.8          120.1         43.2         160.2
Negotiations through Board Approval  4.2         13.5          9.2          25.1
Supervision                         92           376.4        128.6         518.1
Completion                         10.0          13.6          8.2          19.9
TOTAL                             151.9         404.7        208.0        787.80



Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
April, 1995    4           6          TM, HE, HIS    N/A             N/A
(2)
June, 1995     7           10         TM, HIS, HE,   N/A             N/A
.m=an-?                                      PA, F, IS, P
ZMI=~   Sept., 1995  2                     4          TM, HE           N/A            N/A
Nov., 1995    5            10         TM, HE (3), F   N/A            N/A
May, 1996      4           11         TM, HE (2), P   N/A            N/A         Mission purpose was
to assess readiness
for effectiveness
July, 1996     3           5          TM, HE (2)       N/A           N/A         IP
Sept., 1996    1           5          HE               N/A           N/A         IP, M
Oct., 1996     4           4          TM, HE (2),      S             S           IP, P
.______ ______OA
Dec., 1996    5            8          TM, HE (2),      S             HS          IP
________    _____   _ lSSS, HIS
March, 1997   1            5          HE               N/A           N/A
May, 1997      6           11         TM, HE (2),      S             HS          IP
I___  _ _OA, RS, HIS        .
Sept., 1997    3           3          TM, HE, QA       N/A           N/A         CF, M
Nov., 1997    6            7          TM, HE (3),             S       S           CF, DIS
________    ____    _   Q OA, SSS
March, 1998   5            5          TM, HE (2),      HS            S
SSS, OA
29=i April, 1998    1           6          SSS              N/A           N/A
April, 1998    1           2          HE               N/A           N/A
rJuly, 1998                           TM,HE (3),        S            HS
July, 1998t;   5           4          TM, BE  3)HOA
Nov., 1998    43                     TM (2), HE,      HS            HS
Nov., 1998    _4     _     3          TA OA___HE,_HS_HS
Feb., 1999     6           4          TM, HIS, L       N/A           N/A
_______  _____<  (2), HE, OA
April, 1999    3           5          TM, HE (2)       N/A           N/A
SAU=Auditor; E=Economist; F=Financial Analyst; HS=Health Specialist; HE=Health Economist; HIS=Health Insurance Specialist;
IS=Information Specialist; M=Management Specialist; OA=Operations Analyst; P-Procurement; PHS=Public Health Specialist;
TA=Team Assistant; RS=Regulations Specialist; SSS=Social Security Specialist; TM=Task Manager; PA=Projects Advisor
'A=Accounting; CF=Counterpart Funds; DIS=Disbursements; IP-lmplementation Progress; L=Legal; M=Management; P-Political
Situation; PR=Procurement; T=Technical



Appendix A
Evidence of Compliance with Legal Conditions
*  rb;edl. y.-                     <  e Con40t nl       - '.' '1.:                      :':-                   :
Fh*t Trawke Ret-                                                                                                 -
Macroeconomic Stability              The macroeconomic policy framework of the   Macroeconomic and fiscal conditionalities were met based on a comfort letter
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the   received from the Secretary of Economic Programming, Juan Jos6 Llach. The letter
Program, and with the fiscal measures for 1996-   establishes several principles regarding Argentina's efforts to eliminate its fiscal
98.                                        deficit, including the need to shift important outlays to above the line and to reduce
this redefined deficit during 1997 and 1998. The letter was welcomed by the IMF
and provides the basis for the renegotiation of their agreement with Argentina.
Policy and Regulatory Reform
- Enrollment Database              The Borrower has fumished to the Bank draft  The Bank received draft terms of reference, an interagency agreement and a
terms of reference and a draft contract for  workplan for the national insurance enrollment database on June 18, 1996. These
improving the enrollment database satisfactory to   were found satisfactory to the Bank.
the Bank.
- Regulation of Pre-paid Private Health   The Borrower has issued the necessary  The Government issued Ministerial Resolution 241/96 (May 17, 1996) establishing a
Plans                                ministerial resolution for the establishment and    commission to propose regulations for private pre-paid health plans.
operation of a commission to propose regulations
for pre-paid private health plans.
Project Coordination Unit            The Borrower has furnished to the Bank the  The Bank received the Operational Manual on June 2, 1996. It was found
Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank.  satisfactory to the Bank.
ntd tihe RMeae    - 7_ :_                                                                 :     _ -       _ .       _v.-
Macroeconomic Stability and          The macroeconomic policy framework of the   Argentina's macroeconomic performance over the past year has been positive, and
Performance of the Program           Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the   the Government met the standards agreed with the Bank. Argentina has also
Program, and with the fiscal measures for 1996-   complied with the IMF's performance criteria in the modified Stand-By program
98.                                        during the last two quarters of 1996 and the first quarter of 1997.
The Bank is satisfied with the progress of the  The Bank is satisfied with the overall progress of the Program because of the
Program.                                   following:
1. Competition among Obras Sociales Sindicales began, with about 150,000
beneficiaries exercising the option to switch, since February 1997;
2. Restructuring of INSSJP is underway;
3. Standard benefit package was approved;
4. Allocation of resources to Obras from the Solidarity Fund has been put in place;
5. Enrollment data base is operational;
6. Obras Sociales covering more that 90% of system beneficiaries entered the



Appendix A: Evidence of Conpliance with Legal Conditions                                                                           Page 2 of 7
Program and obtained, or began preparing, restructuring plans;
7. Single supervisory body for the health insurance market (Superintendencia de
Servicios de Salud) has been established;
8. Draft law regulating private pre-paid system has been sent to Congress; and
9. Draft law for competition between Obras Sociales for executive workers and the
pre-paid plans has been sent to Congress.
Policy and Regulatory Reform
- Competition between Obras Sociales   The Borrower has issued and has furnished to the   1. Government issued of Decree No. 1141 (October 7, 1996), establishing the right
Bank appropriate legal instruments setting forth    of free selection, giving the MSAS 60 days to issue regulations for its
the rules and timeframe for free selection of  implementation.
health insurance services between Obras Sociales  2. The MSAS produced a resolution and a subsequent modification (No. 633,
Sindicales.                                December 18, 1996; and No. 481, January 29, 1997) to regulate the decree by
establishing the specific mechanisms for transferring from one Obra Social to
another.
3. In the first open season (January-May 1997), some 150,000 affiliates, or about
400,000 covered persons, requested a change of Obra.
The Borrower has introduced into the legislative   Draft Law No. 640/97 was sent to Congress on July It, 1997, along with the draft
branch a draft legislation to establish free  law for regulating the private pre-paid health plans (Prepagas). This draft law allows
selection of health insurance services between  private pre-paid health plans to compete with Obras Sociales de Personal de
Obras Sociales de Personal de Direcci6n and  Direcci6n.
private pre-paid health plans.
- Solidarity Redistribution Fund   The Borrower has issued and has furnished to the   1. The GoA issued Decree No. 1615 (December 23, 1996), which established the
Bank the necessary regulations for the operation    Directorate of Special Programs in the Secretariat of Policy and Regulation of the
of the Fondo de Alta Complejidad.          MSAS, and assigned to it the responsibility for resources from the Solidarity
Redistribution Fund previously administered for this purpose by ANSSAI, under
Law 23661.
2. The GoA further regulated implementation of Decree No. 1615 with Decree No.
651/97 (July 17, 1997), which: (i) establishes the structure for the Directorate; (ii)
defines thefunctions of the Departments and of the Director, who determines the
assignment of the budget and defines the ceiling or stop-loss level of an Obra's
financial responsibility, after which subsidies can be paid; (iii) establishes the
procedures by which an Obra can request a subsidy, and the procedures for agreeing
to or denying it; and (v) specifies the diseases and treatments covered.
- Enrollment Database              The Borrower has established the Enrollment  1. The legal basis for the Database (Pad6n) was given by Decree No. 1141 (October,
Database.                                  1996), which established a Census of Employers and required that information
available from ANSSAL be merged and reconciled with these data to provide a



Appendix A: Evidence of Conpliance with Legal Conditions                                                                                 Page 3 of 7
single, uniform database. The Census was completed, with responses from 320,000
employers, with about 7.7 million Obras beneficiaries.
2. As second Decree No. 1615 (December 23, 1996) establishes the responsibility of
ANSSAL to register voluntary Obra affiliates who, because they are self-employed,
are not captured -by the Employer Census.
- Regulation of Pre-paid Private    The Borrower has furnished to the Bank a draft    Draft Law No. 639/97 for the Prepagas was presented to Congress on July 11, 1997.
Health Plans                       resolution or, if necessary, has introduced into its   The draft provided for: (i) financial regulation, including minimum capital
legislative branch a draft law, to establish a new    requirements and technical reserves; (ii) regulation of the content of contracts, to
regulatory regime for pre-paid private health  avoid ambiguity and to require the insured's assent to specific provision; (iii) a period
plans.                                       of 120 days during which the insurer may decide not to accept an applicant, after
which pre-existing conditions cannot be a basis for rejection, unless the applicant has
withheld medical information; (iv) automatic renewal of contracts under terms which
may vary with age or other conditions but which cannot be modified by the insurer
unless the modification applies to all beneficiaries of the same plan, so as to limit risk
selection; (v) freedom of the insured to drop a plan at any time on 30 days notice,
without cause; and (vi) inclusion of the full Obligatory Medical Program in at least
one of the plans sold by an insurer.
- Regulation of Obras Sociales      The Borrower has furnished to the Bank a plan  1. By Decree No. 1615 (December 23, 1996), the Government established the
(including a timetable) and appropriate draft  Superintendency of Health Insurance, extinguishing ANSSAL, INOS and DINOS
legal instruments for institutional strengthening of  and fusing most of their functions. This means that there is only one single
the regulatory agency with oversight over the  regulatory entity for all insurers offering health care plans, whether obligatory or
Obras Sociales and for the application of    voluntary.
regulatory and prudential requirements to Obras   2. A complete institutional strengthening plan, including a timetable, was sent to the
Sociales.                                    Bank on June 30, 1997. The plan covers the new functions, structure, and staffing of
the Superintendency, and a series of planned actions to build up its regulatory
capability in the areas of medical and financial oversight and consumer protection
over the coming year. The plan was fully satisfactory to the Bank.
Restructuring of the Obras Sociales    The Borrower has: (i) signed loan agreements  (i) Loan agreements signed with Obras Sociales for $120 million covering 2 million
with Obras Sociales in an aggregate amount of    beneficiaries, and II restructuring loan proposals covering more than 1.8 million
not less than $60 million equivalent and covering   beneficiaries to be approved shortly; and (ii) A total of US$37 million was disbursed
at least 3 million beneficiaries; and (ii) disbursed   under said loan agreements.
not less than $30 million under said loan
agreements.
The Borrower has signed Convenios de Adhesion   30 Convenios de Adhesi6n were signed with a total of 85 Obras Sociales covering
with Obras Sociales covering at least 3 million  7.6 million beneficiaries.
additional beneficiaries.



Appendix A: Evidence of Compliance with Legal Conditions                                                                           Page 4 of 7
Restructuring of the INSSJP          The Borrower has cancelled not more than $150    The debts to financial institutions are being renegotiated and will be paid from other
million of INSSJP debts to financial institutions.   sources of Government funds than the loan proceeds.
INSSJP has reduced its cash flow deficit by 40%    As of December 31, 1995 the average monthly deficit was US$71.4 million. A
from the level of December 31, 1995, without a    reduction of the deficit by 40% implied that such deficit must at most be US$42.8
net increase in liabilities.               million as of the month prior to second tranche disbursement. The deficit for the
month of May was US$21.6 million, well below the required US$42.8 million.
INSSJP has: (i) reduced personnel costs by 10%    (i) The average monthly expenditure on personnel was US$31.9 million per month in
from the average level of personnel costs during    1995. Compliance required that such average monthly expenditure decline to
1995, and (ii) reduced debts to service providers   US$28.7 million or less. Personnel spending for January/April 1997 was US$22.6
by 20% from the level on December 31, 1995 and  million a month, or nearly 30% less than the 1995 average and the number of INSSJP
to financial institutions by 50% from the level of   employees was about 24% lower than at the end of 1995;
August 31, 1995.                           (ii) The Government approved Decree 197/97 (March, 1997) by which all INSSJP
debts are transferred to the Treasury, effectively eliminating for the INSSJP liabilities
with providers and financial institutions.
INSSJP has completed a study on the        INSSJP completed the study and its findings were implemented, with one major
management of pharmaceuticals and has started    result being the March 1997 umbrella agreement with the pharmaceutical industry
implementing it.                           which reduces INSSJP's monthly pharmaceutical spending by nearly 20%.
INSSJP has completed the conceptual design of    Conceptual design of the reorganization was completed in December 1996 and was
its reorganization and the letter of invitation for    presented to INSSJP management at that time, and subsequently to the new President
detailed design and implementation of the  of INSSJP who was appointed in March 1997. Bidding documents for the new
reorganization has been sent to the short-listed  management information systems were issued, and implementation of the
firms.                                     reorganization started in February, 1997. The new President appointed a committee
to oversee the restructuring process.
Project Coordination Unit            The Borrower has furnished to the Bank a report  In April-May 1997, the UEC presented reports on the use of the proceeds of the First
on the availability and use of the resources made   Tranche for the Obras Sociales and the INSSJP. At that time, a total of US$103.7
available upon disbursement of the proceeds of    million had been used to provide restructuring loans to the Obras Sociales, of which
the First Tranche.                         $37 million had been disbursed. The report was accompanied by certified statements
from the Banco de la Naci6n. In the case of the INSSJP, details were provided on
the use of $90 million for personnel reduction and $70 million to pay provider debts.
Thfrd Thanch';   'XdfAS                                 dAd  Rele  7X .                  '-77777
Macroeconomic Stability and          The macroeconomic policy framework of the   Argentina's macroeconomic performance was positive, and the GoA met the fiscal
Performance of the Program           Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the   performance standards agreed with the Bank. Argentina also complied with the
Program and with the fiscal measures for 1996-    IMF's performance criteria or the Extended Fund Facility in the first three quarters of
1998.                                      1998.



Appendix A: Evidence of Compliance with Legal Conditions                                                                           Page 5 of 7
Objective                         -  Conditionality                                              Compliance
The Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved   The overall progress of the reform was satisfactory to the Bank. The following was
by the Borrower in the carrying out of the  achieved: (i) competition among Obras Sociales Sindicales was maintained. Decree
Program.                                   504/98 (May 1998) improved the framework for competition; (ii) the standard
benefits package continues in effect; (iii) allocation of resources to Obras from the
Solidarity Fund to cover low income families has been enhanced through Decree
1359; (iv) the enrollment database for Obras was completed by March 1997; (v)
Obras Sociales covering more than 90% of system beneficiaries entered the program
and either had restructuring loans or were preparing them. Restructuring loans for
$240 million have been signed and loans for another $100 million are being
developed; (vi) the first round of restructuring of INSSJP is complete; (vii) a single
supervisory body - Superintendencia de Servicios de Salud - has been established and
is operating; and (viii) two draft laws regulating private pre-paid insurance and
allowing competition between Obras Sociales for executive workers and the pre-paid
insurers were submitted to the Congress.
Policy and Regulatory Reform
- Competition between Obras Sociales   The legal instruments referred to in paragraph 6    The GoA modified pre-existing regulations with Decree 504 (May 1998) which
of Schedule 3 to the First health Insurance  allowed members of the system to change Obras at any time during the year, as long
Reform Loan are being implemented in       as individuals do not change more than once in a 12 month period. The Decree also
accordance with their terms.               transferred from the social security agency to the health insurance regulatory body
the main responsibility for overseeing the system of consumer choice of Obra. The
8.1 million members of the Obras Sociales system have been able to exercise their
'right to select an Obra. Since May, 1998, an additional 130,000 workers (about
350,000 beneficiaries) have switched to a different Obra Social.
- Solidarity Redistribution Fund   Automatic distribution of resources of the  Decree 1359 (November 24, 1998) modified Decrees 292 and 492 (1995), which
Redistribution Fund to Obras Sociales has been    established a system of automatic distribution from the Solidarity Fund on the basis
modified to permit allocation of such resources,   of the worker's individual contribution, without regard to family size or composition.
to the extent technically practical, on an  The new Decree allocated resources from the Solidarity Fund on the basis of family
individual household basis, using the Enrollment  size, ensuring that Obras receive at least $21 per worker and $12.50 per additional
Database and incorporating other risk adjustment  family member each month. Detailed simulations by the MSAS showed that the new
factors such as beneficiaries' age, gender, place of  allocation formula would cost about $21 million a month, well within the resources
residence, and prior health services utilization.    available from the Solidarity Fund. The MSAS also made detailed analysis of
alternative scenarios for further adjustments in the formula for automatic distribution
from the Solidarity Fund on the basis of beneficiaries' age and gender.
- Regulation of Pre-Paid Private Health  Provided no new legislation is required for the  It was determined in 1997 that to regulate the Prepagas, a new law would be
Plans                             establishment of a new regulatory regime for pre-  required. The Government subsequently submitted to Congress on July 11, 1998
paid private health plans, the Borrower has issued  Draft Law 639/97. The draft law was approved by the Health Committee of the
a ministerial resolution for its establishment.  Senate on November 11, 1998. The draft law still needs to receive formal approval
._____________________________  ._____________________   by the Senate.



Appendix A: Evidence of Conpliance with Legal Conditions                                                                             Page 6 of 7
- Regulation of Obras Sociales     The Borrower is implementing the plan referred    Decree 177 in March 1997 named the new Superintendent, and Decree 405 in April
to in paragraph 9 of Schedule 3 to the First Health  1998 authorized the new operating structure of the Superintendency and attributed to
Insurance Reform Loan Agreement in accordance  it a series of specific functions, according to a detailed strategic plan. The
with its terms, including the timetable set forth  Superintendency proceeded satisfactorily to implement its new organizational plan
therein [Re: The Borrower has furnished to the  and work program. Despite some delays, the Superintendent has appointed qualified
Bank a plan (including a timetable) and     individuals to occupy all key management positions; issued regulations governing
appropriate draft legal instruments for     free choice and competition among Obras Sociales; drafted new financial regulations
institutional strengthening of the regulatory  and hired inspectors and auditors; issued regulations related to the content of health
agency with oversight over Obras Sociales and  plans, advertising by insurers, and contracts between Obras and HMO-like
for the application of regulatory and prudential    management companies; and developed new procedures and services for inforning
requirements to Obras Sociales.]            consumers of their rights and options among health insurers. A series of five major
resolutions dealing with these regulatory issues was signed by the Superintendent on
November 19, 1998.
Restructuring of the Obras Sociales  Out of the resources made available to the UEC    As of October 1998, 30 loan agreements had been signed for a total of US$274
upon disbursement of the proceeds of the Second   million, covering a total of 5.0 million beneficiaries, or 62% of the actual enrolled
Tranche as set forth in Section 3.03 of the First    population of 8.1 million. When the reform program was designed in 1996, the
Health Insurance Reform Loan Agreement, the  population covered by the Obras Sociales was estimated to be about 12 million, and
Borrower has signed loan agreements with Obras  the condition was framed to require that the Obras Sociales participating in the
Sociales covering at least three million    restructuring cover at least half of the insured population. Upon cleaning of the
beneficiaries in addition to those already covered.  insured population database, it was determined that the enrolled population amounted
to just 8.1 million persons. For both the Second and Third Tranches of the
adjustment loan, the targets were recalibrated in terms of the original percentage of
the insured population. For the Third Tranche, 50 percent of the population is 4.1
million. By signing restructuring loans with 30 Obras covering 5.0 million persons,
the condition has been met.
Restructuring of the INSSJP          INSSJP has:
(i) eliminated its cash flow deficit (for the month  (i) Using INSSJPs guaranteed revenues of $200 million a month or 1998, the deficit
prior to the month in which the Loan is declared    or the month of August 1998 was only $7.1 million. In order to meet the zero deficit
effective);                                 condition of the Third Tranche, INSSJP's Board of Directors (Acta 40, dated October
21, 1998) committed itself to implement the following plan to save $9.7 million: (i)
an additional reduction of 2,000 employees for a total monthly savings of $4.6
million, as authorized by the INSSJP Board; (ii) cutting $0.9 million in monthly
administrative costs through a reduction in promotional activities; (iii) savings of
$0.8 million by increased efficiency in social services (geriatric, death benefits, and
nutritional feeding programs); and (iv) completion of the plan to award health service
contracts to qualified health maintenance organizations at a fixed price of $21 per
capita monthly, resulting in savings of an additional $3.4 million per month.
Following a decision of the Board of Directors of INSSJP (Acta 43 dated December
._____________________ _  ___  3, 1998), it was agreed that INSSJP will save the amount of $4.6 million through



Appendix A: Evidence of Conpliance with Legal Conditions                                                                                 Page 7 of 7
further reducing the cost of medical and social services, rather than through firing
2,000 employees.
(ii) reduced personnel costs by 20% from the  (ii) Personnel spending in September 1998 was US$21.9 million a month, or 31
average level of personnel costs during 1995,  percent less than the 1995 average.
(iii) reduced debts to service providers by 50%  (iii/iv) On December 31, 1997, all INSSJP debts were transferred to the Treasury,
from the level on December 31, 1995; (iv)    effectively eliminating all past INSSJP liabilities with providers and financial
eliminated debts to financial institutions; and  institutions. Since that time, INSSJP accumulated no new debts. Decree 1318
(November 6, 1998) authorized the use of public consolidation bonds ("BOCONes")
up to $800 million to enable the GoA to settle these old debts with healthcare
providers and suppliers.
(v) completed the detailed design of its     (v) INSSJP carried out the institutional strengthening activities agreed to. This
reorganization, and the organizational changes  included (i) completion of studies and implementation of recommendations to reduce
required by such design have been substantially    spending on pharmaceuticals; (ii) restructure ambulance services and INSSJP's two
implemented.                                 hospitals in the town of Rosario; (iii) update the Institute's legal statutes; and (iv)
conduct a survey of consumer satisfaction with recent changes in the INSSJP. In
addition, the INSSJP has completed its design of the new system for contracting
health maintenance organizations to manage medical care for the Institute's four
million members and has called for bids from qualified HMOs. An international
procurement agency was hired to ensure transparency in selection procedures and the
award of contracts.
Project Coordination Unit              The Borrower, through the UEC, has furnished to  In September 1998, the Government presented reports on the use of the proceeds of
the Bank a report on the availability and use of    the Second Tranche. Of the $100 million disbursed under the Second Tranche, $50
the resources made available to the UEC upon  million was deposited in the account in the Banco de la Nacion for restructuring of
disbursement of the proceeds of the Second   the Obras Sociales. These funds, plus $60 million from the First Tranche and nearly
Tranche.                                     $165 million from the Government, have been used to make restructuring loans
amounting to $274 million to date. Certified statements from the Banco de la Nacion
documenting the use of these funds were fumished to the World Bank. The
remaining $50 million from the Second Tranche was allocated to the INSSJP and
used to settle debts with health care providers. The Government in May 1998
furnished to the Bank a complete list of these transactions and a certification of their
__________________________________ .accuracy through a broad  sample audit.



APPENDIX B
.aisdki. d.            Aan f.CI4U
Se"Aip  de Pikoal y R Y * e
Buenos Aires, 25 JunJOd& 1999
,Ara.
Marie Odi!e Waty
E(erente de Pryetos
Xanco Mundial
Tengo el agrado de dirigirme a UJsted con.reforencia al
Documento Implementation Completion Report del Programa de Reconversi6n de
Obras Sociales y el -INSSJyP - Prestamo 4002/3 -AR.
Al resecto el Comit6 dcl Programa. desea manifestarle que en general acuerda con lo
expresado en ese Documnto do cicrre del Programa, cl cual describe y califica todo el
proceso y alcance de las reformas que esta Administraci6n ha ilevado a cabo. No
obstanfe, entendemos oportuno efectuar algumos comentarios particulares relativos a
las partes del mencionado In&rme, especialmente en lo reforido a los Componenles do
Obras Sociales y al de Politicas y Regulaci6n. En tanto los comentarios relativos al
Componente del INSSJyP serkn efectuados por las autoridades dc dicha Entidad, en su
ca*cter de Entidad PNblica No Estatal quienes los elev&ran directamente al Banco
Mundial a travis de la Unidad Ejecutora de ese Componente.
A - Sobre la Experiencig del Provecto, acordamos con la descripci6n de los principales
hechos que dieron origen al presente Programa. Sin embargo, cuando en la pagina i del
Resumen de Evaluaci6n, se hace referoncia a los mecanismos existentes para la
ignaci6n del Fondo Solidario de Redisuiuci6n, creemos que no se debe hablar de
falta de transparenciasy objetividad sino de la existencia de instruntos inadecuados
para efectivizar las transferencias de los recursos administrativos por el Fondo Solidario
de Rcdistnbuci6v.
B - En cuanto a los Obietivos del Proyecto coincidimos que los mismos son los
mencionados en el Dlocuniento y n hay comentarios al especto.
C - Se comparten tambidn los conceptos y la calificacion relativa a los lobros del
Provecto en el cual sc distisgue el esfuew  realizado en los tres component" que lo
confornan, los que ban alcanzado cambios significativos (irreversibles segun se expresa
/1 el Documento) pero que tambidn nocesitan consolidarse. En tal sentido, nuestra



APPENDIX B
apreciaci6n rererida al significado de dichos logros para cada uno de los componentes
es la siguiente:
* En nateria de politicas, para el Gobierno Nacional es sorprendente el impacto que la
libre eleccion ha zenido entre bcficianos de Jas Obras SociaIcs Sirdical s.
Tambien la incorporaci6n y aplicaci6n del Programa Medico Obligatorio, como
canasta dc servicios referenciales por parte de las Obhas Social"s y las Empres de
Medicina Pre-paga, es ua avance sustantivo a favor de los beneficiaros.
La incorporaci6n de uz mecanismo a=mtico de distribucibn del Fondo Solidario
y la depuraci6n del padr6n de beneficarios, ha mejorado la equidad del sistem
solidario entre las Obras Sociales.
En id6ntico sentido que el punto anterior,. Ia creaci6n de la Supeino   de
Servicios de Salud ha fartacido los mecaniss de protecci6n al consumidor, amn
cuando en este item es donde se plantean los mayores desafios a fiur=o. El ente
regulador del sistema debe asegurar el efectivo cumnplimiento de las reformas por
crearse para asegurar la operacion eficiente de los agcntos del seguro d salud.
El tratamieno del Proyctao de Ley de regulacifn de las Prepaas en el Congreso
Nacional ura vez aprobado completari las medidas de proteccion a los usuarios por
parte de estas entidades. Sobre este particular es de aclarar que el Proyecto posee
Dicramen de Comisi.6n en el Senado pero ain no iene Sanci6n de dicha C4mara.
En materia de reforma de Obras Sociales los resultados alcanzados han superado
nuestras  expectativas  pues  han  mnejorado  sustancialmente  sus  servicios
prestacionales en un marco de viabiL;dad econ6mico-f;anciera sostmble.
Coincidimos que este ha sido uno de los logros mais importantes que obtuvo el
proceso de reforma.
D - Los PrinciDales factores oue afectaron el Provecto, se*alados en el Documemo,
referidos a los Componentes de Obms Sociales y de Polkicas y Regulaci6n, han sido
superados, casi en su totalidad, durante su implementaci&n (Putto I .a). Sin embargo,
el aporte de contrapartida nacional pam cl Componente Obras Sociales es unameria
afin pendiente sobre la cual el Gobiemo Argentino estA haciendo csfuczaos para
e*ctivizar lo antes posible los recursos  saes. En este sentido se viene gestionando
ante las autoridades respectivas el aporte de los recursos restantes.
E - En cuarxto a la Sustentabilidad de; Provecto coincidiros en quc los resulados
lcarizados en t*minios de reformas son irTeversibles, pero tambidn acordamos con los
puntos seftalados como temas que necesiSarian ser profundizados.
Sobre este mnisma aspecto es de sfialar nuevament, que no acordamos con el concepto
que refiere a la estmegia actual de redisucin autommtica de los recursos del FSR, a
la cual cl Docurmento califica como discrecionaL La Administwi6n de Programas
Especiales posee un mecanismo do distibuci6n automintica basato en crierios tdcicos
que han sido forma1Lza4os a traves de una Rcsoluci6n.
2



A4PPENDIX B
F - Con respccto al desemDe_o get Banco Mgndial el Comit6 del Programa coincide
con el imporuate papel que jug6 el staff asignado por esa Instituci6n para asistir
t~cnicaente  al Gobicrn Naional en todas las etpas del Proyecto.
G - En cuto a bo expresado en relaci6n al desempcio del Prestatano, el Comitd del
Programa tambi6n acuerda en sostener quo el Gobierno Argentino ha realizado ua
importat csfro, superando fites preswnes polticas y administrando las disttas
crisis que provoc6 el proceso de rcfonra, demostrando uD& gm solidcz t6cnica en la
gesti6n del mismo. Tal vez cl rasgo principal a destacar es que las metas estrgicas
siempro esumrn claramentc defaidas y el proceso de cambio obwerv6 un caratcr
gradual, oue posibil la aceptaci6n de la reforma por parte de los agentos p4blicos y
privados
I - Finalmerte, hs letgiOes asrendidas son la base par continuar en el camino de la
reforma del sistema do seguros de salud iniciado.
Sin otro patiu  la saludo muy atentamente.
Q.~  -
*      * - -ILAMASSA
A .. , U, UE SALUu
iiii Y ALCCIUN siOLLAL
3



lAkt."                              APPENDIX B
Buenos Aires, 28 de Junio de 1999.-
Seflora Coordinadora:
Me dirijo a Ud. eti contestaci6n a vta. nota UEPI 602/99, por
intermedio de la cual el Comit6 del Prograrna de Reconversicn de
Obras Sociales e INSSJyP solicitara nuestros comentarios sobre el
Informe de Cierre de Proyecto con la evaluaci6n del Banco Mundial
a cada Ulo de los componentes del Proyecto.
Al respecto, coincidimos con la calificaci6n que el Banco Mundial
hace del Programa de Reconversi6n del INSSJyP, de "parcialmente
satisfactorio", en cuanto a que el Proyecto a pesar de b-aber reducido
significativamente el deficit operativo, no ha logrado climinarlo.
Tambien coincidimos en cuales fueron los principales factores que
afectaron al Proyecto, a los que agregamnos la disminuci6ii adicional
de las contribuciones patronales a partir del ario 1998 en uni 58%,
por dictado del Decreto PEN 197/97.
Asimismo, continuamos considerando que la implementaci6n del
'Plan de Fortalecimniento Institucional" constituye un inecanismo
mits eficiente para )a contenci6n de los costos y la asignaci6n de los
recursos, incorporando como instrumento a la competencia entre
Entidades Administradoras de Servicios de Salud.
Como consecuencia del mismo y con la asistencia de una agencia
de compras internacional, contratada para aseguwar la transparencia
del proceso por la Unidad Ejecutora del Programa a solicitad del
Banco Mundial, se han seleccionado y contraitado las Entidades



Jam,64"                              M                                ox APPENDIX B
Administradoras  ..t '                eerr  SUS servicios a los
afiliados al !NSSJ<wv.
El Plan de FoiO>ci:wi.C-ffi;e4 'j -'a -v-S  'n'rrrpido por decisi6n
judicial, basade                  la -presunta falta de informaci6n
que tendrian  sosc para elegir enitre las Entidades
Administradoras.
Sin embargo, & ia Rez.-011-.'-el  l 'SjYP se efectuO a partir del
anio 1997 corn 1ibert a ab Tso    ps 8 -qa.e d'ios afiliados al lnstitflto
para optar por cual4w, r Agerte a-- / Seguiro de Salud inscripto en el
Registro creado al&e&to- el Oe   ` funciona en fomia totalmente
independiente del 1NSSJty` y en ev cua ra m&s de 70 Obras Sociales
se han inscripto para of ecer s-us servicios a los afiliados al Instituto.
La baja cantidad de afi-ia.dos qcue optaxon por recibir los servicios
de salud por otra Obra Socila  asi como los resultados de la
encuesta de satis-facci6n realizada pox- intermedio de la Unidad
Ejecutora y a so&icitud de &  Banco IAundial, estarial indicando que
en  el piano  prestacionial jos resultados de la  Refonrna son
ampliameute satisfactorios.
Finalmente debe;rnos mencioz'r  oue en sus inicios, el Proyecto de
Reconversi6n, se planeo co-r Ia nstituci6n intervenida por decisi6n
del Poder Ejecutivo Naciorial, pero ia presi6n de los diferentes
sectores politicos y sc aies obllig6 a aquel a iivormializar la
Instituci6nl de acuerdo a lo establecido ei la respectiva ley.
La implicancia de esta medZda :io hla sido reflejada en su total
magnitud en el lnfom.e de C'erre, pero debe ser tenida en cuenta ya
-           que la mayoria de. 'as aeons.e levadas a cabo en el Prognama de
Reconversi6n fieron tomadas por el Directorio de la Instituci6n,
(                 que cuenta con mayoria de representantes tanto de los beneficiarios
actuales como de aquellos que se incorporen en el futuro.



APPENDIX B
Este hecho, brinda un marco de legitiinidad a las acciones
emprendidas y eii la iniedida que se prolmttidice con Ia saoci6ii de la
ley que permnita a los afiliados elegir suts representaniles en forilia
directa, dara un mayor grado d& viabilidad al INSSJyP, a6ii ci' los
aspectos financieros.
Sin otro motivo, saludo a Ud. atenitamiielnte.
Dr. VICIT AWERETE
SENORA COORDLNADORA
DE LA UNIDAD EJECUTORA DEL
SUBPROGRAMA DE RECONVERSION
CRA. ANA MARIA ZABALLA
S                                    D
-- --- -----               -   --------






IBRD 29348
7 goo                                    r        610.    5. sO'
-200      \    S            BOLIVIA                                     i                                                             200
Si    ~     ~          ~            PARAGUAY 
. ~        ,N \>os<a    I.                               , N                        B      AZ
-   0    .X!vsadr4Jauvia~dor                   >t                                 B R A Z I L
I          @~~~solfa   /                                       /
_S A L TA       _                S       .,
SALTAZ                     "N i   Formosaf
)                a c  't;   Tujum6n  i CHACOk'
. )     T BUMCUEAN                 Resistencia<3L.    Posas
'UCU  .SANTIAGO  .:
I -(     'tm \  ,   0>Santiago del !tero        Corrientes   \r!
L A ~  ~    DE
1   3amra/        *0 'ST
1  f*n      LA                ESERO  |                 y.> /
-I _    ) LaRioja 30           -  -                        .c
--N  R IOJA\i                i'-SANTA'!    -
SAN \                          <   FE \ r-
Ju   r J                                     F                                                                            30.
JUAN I         S          6rdobo   anta
>San .n   INUI                 F ( SF  Paran6
~%\COR   OBAL,       ENTRE/
i   Mendozc\    Son                      s  R.OS
*   2  ~~~~5 *" R1L!u-    ::
0        ,    -.~~~~~~~ URUGUAYt~
eos Aires
)MENDOZA: RO                                  -
BUENOS                   -    - %  CH U
t    4.                          '      ;,-'- INERNTINALA  AlIRES                                  R
_        Ne   u
< 3SAN         TA f          /              g
400                           NEGRO                                                                                                    40Q-
\~ ~-----                                            ARGENTINA
- N  CR Z 9 ,4f.1.,i5N9{t.D
CHUB UT
1                                                                 0      PROVINCE CAPITALS
_50t                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
0/&    ,           -__7     .-:                   -- - .;PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
N- -    TERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SANTA
C  CRUZ                           FALkLANb ISLA.,NJDS
(MALVINAS)
'7 ~ ~~~~~  0 003040500 600 KitOMETERS
*I4RGOIIGgOs -             7- ,    -1I 300 -  -
A 6VVTA ova                                                                          198
SOY  5555Y  555 ~ V~5&, 55M14$550  100    200    300     40Mie
I                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~this mnap was pradussed by the Mop Dein gUnit of The World Bank-
* Ushuaja   ss~~~~~~~~~          The bounldories, cofors, denomninations and anyotlser information shown
TIE1~~~~~~!?A ~~on thi' mfop do  imp)lyV~, ons &&epart of The World Bank Group, any
i~~~i FUEGO ~~~~~~judgment o the s!egolstatos o  ytritr,o  n endforsement or
acsceptance of such boundaries
APRIL 1998



