Report No. PIC3412
Project Name                   Argentina-Health Insurance Reform Project
Region                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                         Human Resources
Project ID                     ARPA40909
Borrower                       The Argentine Republic
Implementing Agencies          Ministries of Economy and Health
Hipolito Yrigoyen 0
(1310) Capital Federal
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Contact: Mr. Roberto Pagano or
Mr. Osvaldo Giordano
Tel: 54-1-349-5000
Fax: 54-1-349-6107
Date PID Prepared              May 4, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date       June 1995
Projected Board Date           July 1995
1.    Background.  Argentina+s social insurance system for health, which
accounts for about $7 billion a year in spending -- nearly 3 percent of
GDP -- and covers about 18 million persons or 60 percent of the
country±s population, is currently in a serious crisis. Despite the
fact that the roughly 350 health insurance funds, or +Obras Sociales+,
in the national system receive more than $3 billion in annual revenues
from earmarked payroll taxes, they have built up debts of over $500
million in the past five years. At the same time, the scope and quality
of health services that they finance have declined, and patient
satisfaction levels have been falling. Similarly, PAMI, the $3 billion-
a-year social insurance agency for Argentina+s 3 million elderly
pensioners and disabled persons, has begun to incur deficits of more
than $20 million a month. Thousands of doctors and hospitals under
contract to PAMI are now refusing to extend health care to the elderly,
because PAMI has not been able to settle its debts with these providers.
2.   Project Objectives.   The objectives of the proposed project would
be to improve the efficiency and equity of Argentina+s social health
insurance system, and to contain the already high level of health
spending in the country. This would be accomplished by: (a) introducing
competition into the market for health insurance (while avoiding adverse
risk selection); (b) reallocating resources in the Fondo Solidario to
Obras strictly on the basis of income and health risk of their insured
households; and (c) developing an effective regulatory framework and
institutions for health insurance, which promote competition while
ensuring transparency and accountability and protecting consumers+
rights.
3.   Project Description.   The project would support the implementation
of a series of critical, inter-connected policy changes in the area of
health financing, especially related to insurance. The key policies, to



be spelled out in a policy matrix and incorporated into the loan
conditionality, would include: (a) making mandatory the financing of a
standard health benefits package (programa minimo de atenciAn mbdica) by
the Obras for all their members;(see 1/) (b) developing and giving full
legitimacy to a national register of insured persons padrAn nacional de
beneficiarios that would be used in allocating resources from the Fondo
Solidario; (c) changing the operating rules for the Fondo Solidario, so
that its resources are used mainly to compensate the poorest insured
households which make payroll contributions for health insurance below
the estimated cost of the standard benefits package; (d) carrying out,
through a series of decrees or other legal instruments, the gradual
liberalization of the market for social health insurance, so that before
the end of project implementation, consumers have a wide choice of
insurer; (e) creating a new regulatory framework and regulatory agency
for social health insurance, consistent with the spirit of increased
competition, that would ensure the financial soundness and
accountability of the Obras (through routine independent audits and
other measures) and their coverage of health services of acceptable
scope and quality; and (f) establishing an effective regulatory
framework for the roughly 500 private pre-paid health insurance
institutions in Argentina, with a view to the eventual merger of the
pre-paid and Obras systems.
4.   The four main components of the proposed project would be:
(a)  Restructuring of the Obras ($300 million): A competitive fund
would be established (Fondo de ReconversiAn), to which Obras
which meet eligibility criteria could apply for financial
support on the basis of a detailed reorganization plan. Such
a plan would entail proposals for reducing the Obra+s debt and
improving its cash flow by laying off excess personnel,
selling underutilized buildings and equipment, and improving
its organization and management practices. Financial
assistance from the competitive fund would be used for
severance and debt service payments, training and technical
assistance, and development of improved management and public
relations information systems. During the reorganization
period, the performance of the Obras would be closely
monitored. Those that do not qualify for reorganization would
be assisted to close or merge with other Obras. At the end of
the reorganization process, the Obras would be required to
comply with new regulatory standards to be designed and
promulgated under the project.
(b)  Restructuring  PAMI ($100 million): A major independent
management audit of PAMI would be carried out in the first six
months of project implementation. As a result, a plan for
improving the PAMI+s efficiency would be formulated, adopted,
and implemented. Project resources would be used to finance
actions similar to those anticipated in the restructuring of
the Obras: eliminating excess personnel and physical assets;
reorganizing PAMI and improving its management; redefining and
renegotiating contracts with health care providers; and
developing better management information and communications
systems. Under this component, the option of having retirees
- 2 -



remain covered by their Obra Social, with PAMI transferring a
standard capitation payment to the Obra, would also be
implemented.
(c)  Strengthening Regulatory Capacity ($40 million):     As part of
the overall reform of social insurance, the regulatory
functions, norms, and institutions involved would also need to
change. The project would support the transformation of
ANSSAL into an appropriate regulatory body for the Obras, by
financing the required technical assistance, training, and
information systems development. Similarly, the project would
support the formulation and enactment of the legislation
needed to create a regulatory framework and the development of
a related regulatory body for the pre-paid private health
insurance companies.
(d) Institutional and Policy Development ($10 million): The
reform of social health insurance -- and, to a lesser extent-
-of pre-paid private insurance during 1995-97 would require
not only strong political leadership from the Government, but
also effective policy analysis, formulation, and
implementation through appropriate legal and institutional
mechanisms. This policy development would be spearheaded by
an independent project execution unit tied to both Ministries
of Economia and Health. The unit would contract with private
policy analysts and lawyers and would assist the two
ministries in building up a permanent capacity to manage and
carry out some kinds of health financing policy analysis. To
do so, under this component, the project would finance
technical assistance and training. At the same time, the
project unit would manage most of the technical assistance
being extended to the Obras, PAMI, and the new insurance
regulatory bodies under components (a) to (c).
5.   Project Cost and Financing. The proposed project is expected to
cost about $450 million (these costs to be refined during the upcoming
preappraisal mission). The Obras are expected to make a contribution of
$50 million from their own resources and ANSSAL will contribute $200
million from the payroll contributions they receive under current law.
The Bank+s loan of $200 million will finance about 45 percent of total
project costs.
6.   Project Implementation.   The project is being prepared by a new
project unit headed by two coordinators appointed by the Ministers of
Economy and of Health, respectively. The existing Project Preparation
Facility for the Health Systems Development Project (appraised at the
end of March 1995) is being extended by $400,000 to finance the
preparation of the Health Insurance Reform Project.
7.   Given the political sensitivity of the issues surrounding reform of
the Obras and PAMI and the resistance to change in some of the existing
institutions, the Government has decided to make the project unit
independent and to have its coordinators report directly to an oversight
committee made up of the three ministers of Economy, Health, and Labor.
- 3 -



8.   Project Sustainability. The proposed project is highly consistent
with the Bank+s country assistance strategy for Argentina, which
emphasizes (a) improving the efficiency with which public (or quasi-
public, in the case of the Obras and PAMI) resources are used in the
financing and delivery of social services; and (b) strengthening the
country±s key financial systems, which include not only the provincial
and commercial bank but also the $7 billion in annual transactions
through social health insurance ($10 billion including private health
insurance); and (c) improving equity in public social spending and
reducing poverty.
9.   The proposed project also draws upon the World Bank+s comparative
advantage in assisting the Government of Argentina. The Bank+s
worldwide knowledge and experience in the reform of health financing
make it the best-qualified international institution to help Argentina
in improving its insurance system. The Bank+s involvement in a related
sector study over the past eight months also gives it a solid
understanding of the issues and of the local institutions and persons
that are the keys to a successful reform.
10. Poverty Category: Poverty-focused operation.
11.  Environmental Aspects.    Since the project focuses mainly on
critical policy changes in health financing, especially related to
insurance, no adverse environmental impact is expected.
12. Program Objective Categories: Economic Management.
1/   Analysis carried out inconnection with the Health Financing Sector
suggests that a generous package, including preventive and primary care
and a wide range of hospital-based services, could be delivered at a
cost of about $20 per beneficiary per month, or less than half of what
is currently spent for health care in Aregentina. More work to refine
the contents and cost of the standard benefits package is currently
being done.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



