Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6851-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM LOANS
IN AMOUNTS TOTALING US$350 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
APRIL 2, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Argentine Peso (Arg$)
Arg$1 = US$1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGN               -    Audutoria General de la Naci6n/National Auditor General
ANSSAL            -    Administracion Nacional de Seguros de la Salud/National
Administration of Health Insurance
CAS               -     Country Assistance Strategy
DGI               -     Direcci6n General Impositva/Federal tax collection agency
FROS              -    Fondo de Reconversi6n de las Obras Sociales /
Restructuring Fund for the National Health Insurance
Funds
FSR               -    Fondo Solidario de Redistribuci6nfRedistribution Fund
ICB               -     International Competitive Bidding
INSSJP            -    Insututo Nacional de Servicios Socialespara Jubiladosy
PensionadosfNational Social Services Institute for
Retirees and Pensioners
MSAS              -    Ministerio de SaludyAcci6n Social/Ministry of Health and
Social Action
NCB               -     National Competitive Bidding
Obras Sociales    -     Social health insurance funds
OECD              -     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAMI              -    Programa de Atenci6n Medica Integral/Integrated Program
of Medical Care
PMO               -    Programa Medico Obligatorio/Standard Health Benefits
Package
PRESSAL           -     Proyecto de Reforma del Sector Slud&Provincial Health
Sector Development
PROMIN            -    Proyecto Materno Infanfil/Maternal and Child Health
Project
SOE               -     Statement of Expenditure
UEC               -     Coordination and Executing Unit



ARGENTINA
HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM LOANS FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY                                           i
I. THE ECONOMIC SETTING                                            1
A.    Recent Performance                                    2
B.    Social Expenditure and Health Insurance Reforn        6
II. THE HEALTH SECTOR                                              9
A.    Background                                            9
B.    Major Issues in Health Insurance                      19
C.    The Government's Health Insurance Reform Program      25
III. THE REFORM PROGRAM                                            29
A.    Background                                            29
B.    Loan Objectives                                       30
C.    Loan Description                                      30
D.    Cost and Financing Plan                               36
E.    Loan Conditions                                       38
F     Implementation Arrangements                           42
G.    Disbursements and Auditing                            43
H.    Benefits and Risks                                    43
I.    Recommendation                                        45
ANNEXES
A.    Policy Matrix                                         46
B.    Letter of Development Policy                          48
C.    Fondo de Reconversion de las Obras Sociales           67
(FROS) -- Plan of Operation
D.    Regulation of Obras Sociales                          73
E.    Health Insurance Policy Reforms                       81
F.    Project Execution Organizational Structure            86
G.    The National Obras Sociales                           94
H.    The Central Redistribution Fund (FSR)                 104
I.    The Integrated Program of Medical Care (PAMI)         110
J.    Pre-Paid Health Care (Las Pre-Pagas)                  120
K.    Timetable of Key Processing Events                    123
L.    Status of Bank Group Operations in Argentina          124
M.   Key Macroeconomic Indicators                           127
This MJemorandum of the President is based on work of an appraisal team consisting of Robert
Hecht (Mission Leader, LA1HR); Richard H. Hoffman, Jose Moscoso, Cristian Baeza, Brenda
Enuton (L4 JHR); Helen Saxenian (HDD); Pablo Gottret and Anita Artaza (Consultants). Karla
McEvoy was in charge ofproduction. The Managing Division Chief is Alain Colliou and the
Country Director is Gobind T Nankani.
|his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|officia] duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






i
ARGENTINA
HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM LOANS
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:                Argentine Republic
Amount,                  Two loans totaling US$350 million equivalent
Terms,                    (i) A first loan for US$250 million at the standard
amortization term, grace period, and interest rate for fixed-
rate US dollar single currency loans expected to disburse in
0-3 years; and (ii) a second loan for US$100 million
equivalent, repayable over 15 years, including five years'
grace, at the standard variable interest rate for currency
pool loans.
Implementing Agencies:    The Ministry of Health
Beneficiaries:            The Obras Sociales', INSSJP2, and the Ministry of Health.
Commitment Fee:           0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Program Objectives:       The Government has requested that the Bank finance an
operation to reform of the country's health insurance
system, focusing primarily on the compulsory payroll tax
financed "social" insurance (the Obras Sociales and
INSSJP), which covers 60 percent of the population and
accounts for 2 percent of GDP.
Benefits:                 Through the introduction of competition and improved
regulation of insurers, the development of a basic health
benefits package, and the improved use of a health risk and
income equalization fund, millions of Argentines will obtain
better health care value and improved quality of health
services. Waste and misuse of funds will be reduced.
Improved health outcomes for a large segment of the
country's work force covered by mandatory social
insurance will result in lower absenteeism and higher labor
Social health insurance fimds.
2  Instituto Nacional de Seguridad Social para Jubilados y Pensionados, the social health insurance fund
for the elderly and pensioners.



ii
productivity. In fiscal terms, the Obras system will achieve
real savings of at least US$150 million a year and will
eliminate their operating deficits. The INSSJP will obtain
an annual savings of US$300 million by 1998 and attain
financial balance. These combined fiscal benefits amount
to about one percent of the federal government budget.
Risks:                    The main risk is political. To minimize this risk, the
President and Cabinet of Ministers have unanimously
endorsed the reform. Key stakeholders (trade union
leaders, medical associations, etc) have been consulted and
the reform provides strongly incentives for them to
embrace the reform. The introduction of consumer choice
in the insurance market will advance gradually according to
a series of politically manageable steps. A second risk is
the continued waste and misuse of funds by the Obras
Sociales and INS SIP. This risk will be mitigated by
introducing competition among the Obras, establishing
stringent criteria for Obras to qualify for assistance from
the Fondo de Reconversi6n de las Obras Sociales (FRO S),
and setting and enforcing stronger regulatory and
prudential standards for the Obras Sociales system. A
third risk is of possible delays in the development of the
new legal and regulatory framework and institutions for
reform because of capacity contstraints This risk will be
addressed through a parallel Bank-financed technical
assistance project which will obtaining technical guidance
from both developing and developed countries with
relevant experience in health insurance reform.
Povery Catesgory:         The project does not respond to a standard poverty
category. By implementating a basic health benefits
package for all insured persons and redirecting FSR
resources to Obras Sociales with lowest levels of revenue
per beneficiary, the project will greatly improve the equity
of the social health insurance system. On the basis of
revenues currently available, redirection of the FSR will
benefit over three million persons with average monthly
insurance contributions of less than US$18, including over
half a million farm laborers' families living below the
poverty line.
Estimated
Disbursements:            The package of two linked adjustment loans totaling
US$350 million will disburse in three tranches as follows:



tranches of USS150 million and US$100 million from the
Single Currency Loan, and a final tranche of USS 100
million from the Currency Pool Loan. Tranche releases
will take place once the Government has met both the
macroeconomic conditionality and the conditionality
related to reform of social health insurance, as described in
the Letter of Development Policy and spelled out in
Chapter 3 and in the policy matrix.
FY 97 (Smillion)        FY 98 (Smillion)
Annual                            250                      100
Cumulative                        250                      350
Financing Plan:         The operation will be financed through a pair of World
Bank adjustment loans (a Single Currency Loan and a
Currency Pool Loan) totaling US$350 million and a
national contribution of US$400 million equivalent.
Rate of Return:          Not applicable






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED IIEALTH INSURANCE
REFORM LOANS TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC IN AMOUNTS
TOTALING US$350 MILLION
I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
package of two inter-related adjustment loans to the Argentine Republic, in a total amount
of US$350 million, to improve the efficiency and equity of Argentina's social health
insurance system. The first two tranches ($250 million) would be financed as a fixed rate
US dollar single currency loan, with the standard amortization term, grace period, and
interest rate for such loans that are expected to disburse in 0-3 years. The third tranche
($ 100 million) would be financed as a currency pool loan, repayable over 15 years,
including 5 years' grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate for such loans.
This report is being submitted simultaneously with a Memorandum of the
President for a proposed Health Insurance Technical Assistance Project to the Argentine
Republic in an amount of US$25 million equivalent, which would finance activities to
design and implement improved policies, regulations, and institutional development to
support the Government's health insurance reform program.
1. THE ECONOMIC SETTING'
1.1         Five years have passed since Argentina, emerging from the severe
economic crisis of 1989-90, adopted the Convertibility Plan. This innovative plan
restructured Argentina's economic landscape. From extreme hyperinflation, the country
moved relatively quickly to an annual inflation rate of 3.9 percent in 1994. Output and
productivity increases have been remarkable for the 1991-94 period, with GDP growth
averaging 7.7 percent. The initial consumption-led boom matured into a healthy pattern of
investment and export-led growth, sidetracked only by the 1995 recession, when the
economy contracted by 4.4 percent. Privatization of state assets has been far-reaching,
and much more successful than expected. As a result of the economic recovery, poverty
levels have declined, although economic restructuring with a rigid labor market has
resulted in increased unemployment. The Government also launched a number of
microeconomic reforms, particularly in labor legislation, with the aim of reducing labor
costs and increasing productivity. Resulting improvements, combined with favorable
I A full exarnination of Argentina's balance of payments and growth prospects in the post-Mexican
situation is set out in the Country Assistance Strategy, (Report No. 14278-AR, dated April 10, 1995),
discussed at the Board of Executive Directors meeting on May 4, 1995, and in the CAS update to be
presented to the Board simultaneously with the health insurance reform loans described in this
report.



2
exchange rate developments in Brazil, have allowed export expansion to be strong in
recent years and to underpin growth.
1.2          The Convertibility Plan was part of a comprehensive reform program at the
national level2 including reforms of the state and financial institutions, privatization, and
extensive market liberalization. While fiscal adjustment has occurred at the federal level,
provincial fiscal deficits persist, mainly because of the continued inability of provincial
governments to contain current expenditures and sufficiently increase their own-source
revenues.
A. Recent Performance
1.3          With the dynamic evolution of the economy (shifting through phases of
consumption-led, export-led and then investment-led growth), GDP in 1993 and 1994
grew by 6 and 7.1 percent, respectively. Gross fixed investment reached 20 percent in
1994, associated with increased national and foreign savings. Exports, which were
affected by declining international prices in 1992-93, rose by 20 percent in 1994, with
manufactured goods exports exhibiting particular buoyancy, growing at an average of 27
percent in 1993-94. Better international prices for grains and improved economic
conditions in Brazil contributed to the growth in exports. In 1994, imports grew at the
fast pace of 27 percent. Imports of capital goods led the expansion, indicative of the
acceleration in investment and the restructuring of the economy. Financing trade and
current account deficits was not difficult, given Argentina's improved access to
international financial markets during 1993 and 1994.
1.4   Following the fast expansion of the first four years of the Convertibility Plan, in
1995 the Argentine economy suffered a recession. The main reason behind this
contraction was the impact of the Mexican economic crisis, that reverberated throughout
Latin America. The sharp recession caused an increase in unemployment, and strained the
performance of the financial system. The regional financial crisis was the first severe test
of the Convertibility Plan. Yet, by the end of 1995, there were signs that Argentina was
pulling out of its recession without serious damage to the Convertibility Plan. To the
contrary, significant pressures to deviate from it were met by efforts to further strengthen
it during the crisis, indicative of the Plan's popularity and staying power. It can be claimed
that in some respects, the credibility of the Convertibility Plan was strengthened from the
1995 crisis.
1.5          Economic Performance in 1995. Preliminary data suggest that, during
1995, the Argentine economy suffered a recession of approximately 4.4 percent of GDP.
The initial shock, generating a confidence crisis, contributed to capital outflows, which for
the first four months of the crisis prior to the May Presidential elections caused a 17.6
percent loss in banking deposits (US$8 billion), with liquid international reserves declining
2 Past Bank support for this program has entailed various operations in support of financial sector
adjustment, capital market development, privatization and modernization of the public sector.



3
by 30 percent (US$4.8 billion). Under the Convertibility Plan, where the monetary base
has to be fulfly backed by international reserves, capital outflows resulted in the
demonetization of the economy. This demonetization affected both the performance of the
financial system, but also real economic activity. There was increasing evidence however,
that the economy ceased to deteriorate in the fourth quarter of 1995. Expectations
improved considerably: the stock and bond markets rebounded strongly, deposits and
international reserves recovered the losses suffered early in the crisis. Furthermore, for
1995 as a whole, cumulative inflation was 1.6 percent, the lowest rate in 51 years.
1.6         As the economy slipped into recession, investment retracted as well
(approximately by 15 percent), and unemployment surged, first rising to 18.4 percent
(May, 1995), before dropping back to 16.6 percent (October, 1995). The number of
bankruptcies surged, reportedly doubling the rate of the previous four years taken
together. The impact of the shock was moderated by a strong foreign trade perfornance.
A combination of good international commodity prices, the contracting domestic
economy, the continuous real depreciation of the peso, and the fast pace of economic
expansion in Brazil, resulted in a 32.3 percent growth in exports. With the deepening
recession, imports declined by 7.8 percent, producing a sharp improvement in the trade
balance, which shifted from a US$5.8 billion deficit in 1994 to a US$0.9 billion surplus in
1995. As a result, the current account deficit was cut to US$4.3 billion, less than half the
1994 level, or 1.4 percent of GDP. Despite the improvement in the current account, the
sharp reduction in net capital inflows resulted in a reduction of US$1.7 billion in net
international reserves.
1.7         Fiscal performance was also detrimentally affected by the recession.
Despite efforts to rein in expenditures, the shortfall in revenues generated a fiscal deficit
equivalent to one percent of GDP, or US$2.8 billion (including privatization receipts of
USS0.9 billion). Half of that deficit was financed by a tax amnesty program announced in
November 1995, and the remainder from other sources. Total federal public sector debt
rose by US$7.8 billion in 1995, most of it foreign, reaching a level of US$88.4 billion. In
addition to the federal fiscal deficit, preliminary estimates put provincial fiscal deficits at
0.8 percent of GDP, bringing their debt level to over US$11 billion. In a crisis year, where
provincial banks faced disproportionately larger difficulties than the rest of the financial
system, provincial deficits were increasingly financed through arrears to providers, salaries
and pensions.
1.8         Implications of the Crisis. In the first months of the Mexican crisis, the
financial markets' reaction suggested that Argentina was perceived as being more
vulnerable to the external shock than most other Latin American countries. In addition to
the decline in deposits and international reserves mentioned above, between the end of
1994 and mid-March 1995 the stock market index declined by 30 percent, as did dollar-
denominated Government bond prices. Argentina's greater perceived vulnerability was
due to its relatively heavy reliance on foreign capital inflows, the inflexibility of its
exchange rate regime, and the weakness of its financial system. The structural conditions
of the banking sector--no deposit insurance, absence of a lender of last resort, and a
segmented and inefficient system, as well as the memories of many previous financial



4
crises that ended in asset confiscation-- fueled a mini-run on deposits and a flight to
quality among many depositors in the system. Simultaneously, interbank market access
shrank down to top private sector banks and the interbank interest rate increased sharply,
pushing several solvent but illiquid institutions to the brink of failure.
1.9          The Mexican crisis brought to light important lessons for Argentina. It: (a)
highlighted the extent of the economy's reliance on volatile capital flows; (b) revealed the
need for a strong financial system, including the relevance of a dollar lender of last resort
in an increasingly dollarized system; (c) reemphasized the need to sustain credibility of the
economic program; and (d) made obvious the difficulties in changing the exchange rate
during periods of crisis.
1.10         Vulnerability. The Convertibility Plan had so far served Argentina well.
Nevertheless, under the fixed exchange rate regime, the economy remains vulnerable to
sharp swings in capital flows. During periods of decelerating or declining capital flows,
lags in the adjustment in relative (domestic to foreign) prices will create a slowdown in
economic activity. An economy with a weak financial system and rigid labor markets is
even more vulnerable to shocks, particularly under a fixed exchange rate regime where
changes in capital flows could be more pronounced. Financial vulnerability could cause
great damage in a short period of time since it magnifies the deleterious effects of negative
random shocks. As the recent experience in Argentina shows, capital movements usually
affect the weakest financial institutions first, creating problems that could subsequently
affect the entire financial system, thus reinforcing the effect of negative capital movements.
1.11         A further dimension of this financial vulnerability under the Convertibility
Plan is that the Central Bank, under a fractional reserve requirement system, is a weak
"lender of last resort", since its dollar reserves are not sufficient to stem a serious banking
run. To reduce the risks of a financial crisis in an increasingly dollarized system, there is a
need, for example, to get explicit support from other central banks, possibly via swaps.
However, while such a facility may be desirable, it is unlikely that a variation of the
Mexican emergency support program is replicable.
1.12         The Exchange Rate Regime. Under a fixed exchange rate regime, where
capital flows could be volatile since changes in relative prices are more difficult to
generate, crisis management in a fractional reserve requirement system requires either the
Central Bank to hold large international reserves, or international support needs to be
assured in order to provide a lender of last resort to the financial system. Flexible
exchange rates, however, are less attractive in a highly dollarized economy, and, in any
case may lead to undue volatility in the real exchange rate, as the Mexican experience
made all too obvious. In the case of Argentina, approximately three-quarters of private
sector liabilities, four-fifths of government debt, and over half of bank credit is in US
dollars, and a devaluation would have a further destabilizing effect on the banking system,
as well as on corporate and public finances. A devaluation under crisis conditions could
prove to be highly counterproductive, deepening the crisis it is intended to correct. It
could discredit hard won gains obtained under the Convertibility Plan, and would result in
capital outflows, a banking crisis, higher inflation, and a possible economic depression.



5
1.13        Credibility. With a vulnerable financial sector, it is imperative to
strengthen the credibility of the economic program. This is another lesson one can draw
from the recent Mexican crisis. While the Argentine adjustment process remains robust,
and reforms to make financial and labor markets more flexible were proposed, since mid-
1993 there was a hiatus, with some important reforms deferred pending legislative or
provincial approval and implementation. Additionally, during the second half of 1994, the
national government's fiscal surplus was reversed, primarily on account of social security
reform efforts and higher expenditures. National deficits compounded provincial deficits,
reversing an improving trend in consolidated fiscal accounts. While longer term, inter-
generational transfers may in one sense justify the higher transitory net costs of the
reforming social security system, in retrospect, short-term considerations regarding the
credibility of the adjustment program showed that a relaxation of fiscal policy was
premature. Thus, when the Mexican crisis erupted, the Government had to address both
the vulnerability of the financial system as well as the credibility of its economic program.
1.14        The Government's Response. The Government reacted forcefully to the
crisis. Early on, it took strong measures to redress the fiscal balance by cutting
expenditures on, among others, export subsidies, public sector wages, and social security
expenditures, while raising temporarily VAT rates (by three percentage points to 21
percent) and other taxes. Swift action by Congress in approving unpalatable emergency
measures at the early months of the crisis added to the credibility of the measures, which
were supported by programs of multilateral institutions. As the Government was
announcing these measures in mid-March 1995, it also assembled an international financial
package of approximately US$11 billion in support of the Convertibility Plan. The
announcements effectively stopped the accelerating decline in bank deposits.
1.15        During the crisis, the Government successfully resisted growing pressures
to reverse the economy's liberalization. To its credit, it decided to deepen this process and
further accelerate economic adjustment, through labor, social security, and fiscal reforms.
In the labor area, Congress approved a law increasing the flexibility of the labor legislation
for small and medium enterprises, a work-related accidents law, and a Bankruptcy Law.
Congress also approved the Social Security Solidarity Law, to reestablish maximum limits
for all beneficiaries, eliminate the automatic adjustment of benefits, apply the provisions of
the Convertibility Law to the determination of pensioners, and modify the associated legal
proceedings. The Law also allowed for the establishment of a limit on pension outlays,
which have been an important cause of macroeconomic instability in recent years.
1.16        In the fiscal area, the Government obtained Congressional approval for
implementing during early 1996 a Second Public Sector Reform (steamlining public
administration, increasing its efficiency and predictability), and another law giving
extraordinary authority to the Executive for 1996 to resolve fiscal shortfalls without
further recourse to Congress, including broadening the personal assets tax, and the
extension for a second year of the temporary increase of the VAT to 21 percent.
Additionally, it implemented a successful tax moratorium, generating a flow of $4 billion in
revenues over the foliowing 30-35 months. The announcement of such measures, and the
continuity of the Convertibility Plan, were well received by the markets. Were it not for



6
inteal political difficulties that emerged in the second half of 1995, and later subsided, it
is likely that economic activity in Argentina would have recovered earlier The proposed
reform of the payroll tax financed health insurance system, currently under way and being
supported by these proposed World Bank loans, will also make a significant contribution
to eliminating the fiscal deficit in 1996, 1997, and beyond.
1.17         On the financial side, immediately after the Mexican crisis erupted, the
Central Bank tightened liquidity to prevent a curency run. It subsequently set up facilities
to assist small banks in crisis. To counter the risk of further bank failures, it also
facilitated the use of interbank credit, and reduced temporarily reserve requirements in
both dollar and peso deposits, and used rediscounts at a faster pace. The use of excess
reserves, and the reduction of the reserve requirement (established for prudential reasons
earlier, but not a requirement for the Convertibility Plan) at the height of the crisis,
provided limited but badly needed margins of liquidity that the absence of a lender of last
resort could not provide. The Government, with the assistance of two World Bank loans,
established a Trust Fund for Privatization to handle the workout of provincial banks, and a
Bank Capitalization Trust Fund to handle the recapitalization/restructuring of distressed
private banks. These Trust Funds made a significant contribution to averting a full scale
systemic banking crisis. Measures were also taken to strengthen the supervision of the
financial system. To stem capital inflows, the authorities facilitated the further dollarization
of the banking system, by further limiting distinctions between dollar and peso deposits.
'.18         At the provincial level, the national crisis aggravated an already
problematic situation, in view of the absence of meaningful reforms in the early years of
the Convertibility Plan. Faced with a serious deterioration in their fiscal affairs, and social
unrest in a number of provinces, in 1995 various local governments, assisted by the
Federal Government's incremental support to the provincial reform effort, accelerated their
adjustment process: five provincial banks were privatized (with another 10 in the process
of privatization), three social security systems were transferred to the streamlined national
system, salaries were cut, and a number of redundant public employees were let go
(contributing to the rise in unemployment). Additionally, a significant number of public
enterprises, particularly in provinces committed to a reform program, were privatized. Of
the total of 35 enterprises slated for privatization in eight such provinces, 17 were
privatized by early 1996, and privatization laws have been passed for all of the rest.
B. Social Expenditures and Health Insurance Reform
1.19         Public social expenditure3 under the Convertibility Plan has been growing
in absolute and relative terms, reflecting the Government's commitment to invest in human
capital and reduce poverty. Consolidated public social expenditure increased from 16.4
percent of GDP in the 1984-88 period to 17.3 percent during the first Menem
3   Public social spending includes expenditures of the naiond govnment, the provnce 
municipalities in the social sectors (culture and education, alth, hosing nutrition, waer am I
station, social welfare, labor, sports, et al.), and social    nce (social wecurit, family
allowances, health fnds, and unmployment insurance). 



7
Administration (1989-94), reaching US$51.4 billion or 18.4 percent in 1994. It is worth
noting that this increase took place as the size of the overall public sector diminished from
33.2 percent of GDP during the previous administration to 29.9 percent in the 1989-94
period, on account of a major privatization effort. Consequently, overall social spending
as a share of total public expenditure rose significantly from 49.5 percent in the 1984-88
period to 67.2 percent in 1994.
1.20         Within total social expenditures, more than half of the 1994 budget (57.3
percent) was devoted to social insurance programs, including old age and disability
pensions, health insurance, family allowances, and unemployment insurance. This high
proportion of spending for social insurance, mostly financed through earmarked payroll
taxes, reflects Argentina's aging population profile, non-communicable disease
epidemiology, and an increased pool of unemployed persons and the working poor
requiring social assistance. Within social insurance, the largest proportional increases in
spending have occurred in social security pensions (up from 34 percent of the total in
1984-88 to nearly 39 percent in 1994) and in health insurance for the elderly under the
Instituto Nacional de Seguridad Socialpara Jubilados y Pensionados (INSSJP, from 4 to
5.1 percent during the same period).
1.21         In response to the recent economic crisis, the Federal Government in
December 1994 and again in March 1995 cut its original 1995 budget by a total of 3.9
percent or US$1.6 billion (from US$42.9 billion to US$41.3 billion). Leaving aside social
insurance expenditures, the federal budget for the "traditional" social sectors was reduced
by about 6.3 percent, from US$8.6 billion to about US$8.1 billion. The programs
suffering the largest cuts were education (down by 9.2 percent), health, and labor (each
down 3.5 percent). In order to preserve the most essential health and nutrition services
and publicly-financed jobs for the poor and newly unemployed, the Government agreed to
maintain spending for a core set of "targeted" social programs with an annual budget of
about US$1 billion, as an important conditionality in its social safety net operations with
the Inter-American Development Bank and the World Bank3.
1.22         Even though the Government did not announce specific cuts in Argentina's
federal social insurance programs, expenditures for these programs which depend on
earmarked wage taxes are also expected to decline in 1995 and beyond. This is because
employment and thus taxable wages have contracted substantially during the current
recession, while tax evasion by employers remains high despite a vigorous Government
4  To cushion the impact of these budget cuts, assi families adverly affected by economic
adjustment, and improve tat  and cost-ffctiveness of social senmice delivery the Bank
developed with the Government a Socal Protection Project supported by a loan of US$152 million.
The projoct provides assistance to improve social expenditure managent and taring of services,
while financing poverty-reduction activities to communities in extrem poverty. The loan for the
Social Protection Project (Ln 3957-AR) was presented to the Board on November 21, 1995 and
became effective on December 13, 1995.



8
effort to combat evasion. Revenue collections for social inurance have also been
negatively affected by another of the Government's policies to make Argentina's economy
more competitive internationally and to encourage employers to hire more labor, by
lowering the overall burden of wage taxes. These taxes in recent years amounted to
nearly 54 percent of wages and included payroll deductions for pensions, health insurance,
and unemployment insurance. Starting in 1994, a series of reductions in employers'
contributions have been gradually phased in. The reductions vary from province to
province, averaging about 30 percent of employers' contributions nationwide. Several
recent analyses suggest that overall, they could depress earmarked revenues for the health
insurance program for the elderly by as much as 12 percent and for active workers and
their dependents by up to 20 percent.
1.23        Since health care spending has not been reduced but has instead continued
to grow during this period, the Obras and INSSJP are now incurring large operating
deficits and growing arrears. The Obras' combined losses for both 1994 and 1995 are
estimated at about US$150 million annually. INSSJP, which lost US$360 million in 1994,
has reported operating shortfalls as large as US$40 million per month during the first part
of 1995. While the INSSJP has recently begun to take measures to bring expenditures
into line, a dip in revenues in the latter months of 1995 and the use of the Instituto 's
revenues to pay an income support subsidy to low-income pensioners during the year is
likely to result in another large annual operating loss conservatively estimated at US$200
million. Correcting these financial imbalances is an important part of the Government's
current efforts at fiscal adjustment.
1.24        Although over the longer run it may be possible to generate additional
revenues for health social insurance, in the short run Argentina will only be able to restore
financial equilibrium to its health insurance system by containing expenditures. This will
require the imposition of limits or a clearer definition of the health benefits covered, and
the adoption of measures to raise internal efficiency substantially. It is widely recognized
that even though the Obras Sociales and PAMI provide a wide range of important health
care services to about half the population of Argentina, they operate with serious
inefficiencies due to excess staffing, poor contracting practices, and weak management.
The recent economic crisis and its negative impact on the revenues and balance sheets of
the Obras and INS SJP have only added greater urgency to the reform of the social health
insurance institutions, which account for about US$6 billion in annual spending (more than
2 percent of GDP). The Government is now planning to undertake such a reform of the
country's health insurance system, with assistance from the World Bank. The proposed
reform strategy and the related Bank-financed program are described in detail in the
following chapters of this report.



9
2.    THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. BACKGROUND
2.1         Health Status. In many respects, Argentina already possesses a highly
developed health system, particularly by developing country standards (see Table 2.1).
The country has one of the highest doctor-to-population ratios in Latin America (nearly
three doctors per thousand inhabitants), while the number of hospital beds (4.5 per
thousand inhabitants) is similar to that of many OECD countries. Vaccination of young
children is widespread, and a broad range of primary care services is available in most
parts of the country. At the other end of the health services spectrum, the top teaching
hospitals in Buenos Aires operate some of the most advanced units in the region for
diagnostic imaging, organ transplants, and reconstructive surgery.
2.2         Despite these achievements, the Argentina health system faces several
major problems. In comparison with other middle-income Latin American countries --
most of which have lower per capita incomes and spend less on health -- a number of
health status indicators in Argentina are worse. Infant mortality, for example, with a rate
of 29 per 1000 live births, is higher than in Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, and Uruguay, all
of which have per capita incomes that are half of Argentina's or less. Serious
inefficiencies and inequities in the use of resources for health services -- with the majority
of these resources flowing through the country's health insurance system -- are a major
factor contributing to these disappointing health outcomes.
2.3         Demographic and epidemiological changes in Argentina are also creating
major challenges to the health system, both to respond effectively to a greater share of
non-communicable diseases and to contain the associated health care costs. As fertility
declines and life expectancy increases, the Argentine population is aging -- in 1993, about
nine percent of the total population of Argentina was 65 years or older. This demographic
trend is accompanied by a rising prevalence of chronic and degenerative diseases such as
cancers, traumas and cardio/cerebro-vascular diseases, which accounted for about 63
percent of all deaths in 1992. The high cost of treating these diseases enhances the
priority of health insurance reform.
2.4         Health Sector Structure. The Argentine system of health includes a wide
range of public, semi-public and private institutions, for both the delivery and the financing
of health services. Although this heterogeneity is one of the strengths of the system, the
complex structure of the sector creates problems of coordination and, in some cases,
contributes to the inequalities and inefficiencies of health care in Argentina.



10
Table 2.1: Comparative Health Statistics
Per Capita    Average    Infant       Physicians   Hospital     % of
GDP         Life         Mortality    per thousand  Beds per    Children <1
(US$/1992)   Expectancy   Rate        Population    Thousand    Vaccinated
in Years    (1992)       (1990)       Population   for DPT
(1992)                                (1990)       (1993)
ARGENTINA    6,050           71           29           2.7         4.5           79.2
Mexico          3,470        70           35           1.7          0.7          91.0
Uruguay         3 3,340      72           20           3.7          4.8          88.0
Venezuela       2,910        70           33           1.6         2.3          68.7
Brazil          2,770        66           57           1.4          3.6         68.5
Chile           2,730        72           17           1.1         3.2          93.7
Costa Rica      1,960        76           14           1.3         2.5          86.0
Paraguay        1,380        67           36           0.7          1.7         78.9
Colombia        1,330        69           21           1.1         1.5          83.0
Source: World Bank, "World Development Report" (1994) and PAHO, "Health Conditions in the
Americas" (1994).
2.5           Health Service Delivery. In Argentina, health care delivery
responsibilities are broadly shared by public providers, private providers and semi-public
entities. The majority of doctors have either full-time private practices or combine
employment in public hospitals with part-time private practice. With regard to facilities,
about 50 percent (67,000 beds) are in private hospitals and clinics, 39 percent (47,000
beds) in public institutions, and the remaining 11 percent (8,000 beds) are operated
directly by the semi-public health insurance funds known as the Obras Sociales.
2.6           Within the public sector, the federal Ministry of Health and Social Action
(Ministerio de Saludy Acci6n Social, or MSAS) retains important policy-making, norm-
setting and regulatory functions, but has few health care facilities of its own. Most
responsibility for service provision lies with the Provincial Health Ministries (Ministerios
Provinciales de Salud, or MPS) and, in some cases, their municipal counterparts. The
scope, quality and size of public delivery systems vary significantly, according to the
economic and political strength of individual provinces and the extent of local insurance
coverage.
2.7            Service delivery capacity in the public sector, predominantly hospital-
based, is seriously eroded, as a result of both inadequate financing and management
weaknesses. Most hospitals are old and inadequately maintained, have obsolete
equipment, and are poorly managed. Internal inefficiencies are further magnified by the
lack of accountability of hospital directors. As decision-making is highly centralized at the
level of the MPSs, hospitals have limited authority to achieve improvements in efficiency.
2.8            Since most public expenditures for health take place at the provincial level,
and since the vast majority of this spending occurs in hospitals, the Government is
focusing on raising efficiency and quality of care in the provincial hospitals, through a



11
series of measures designed to: (a) improve management (through training, technical
assistance, information systems, and the use of strong performance incentives); (b)
increase the quality of the hospitals' physical assets (through selected investments in
infrastructure and equipment); and (c) ensure a strong and sustainable flow of financial
resources to the hospitals, especially by encouraging them to bill and collect fees from
patients who have insurance coverage.' To achieve these reforms, the Government is
providing public hospitals with the legal basis for greater autonomy in managing their own
resources and in generating revenues through billing, in the form of a new law for self-
managed hospitals (hospitales de auto-gestion). To support the reforms, the Government
has also prepared a Provincial Health Sector Development Project, which it is financing in
part with a World Bank loan of US$101 million.
2.9           The large and influential private sector provides care to Argentines
affiliated with a commercial health plan, able to pay "out of pocket," or with access to the
semi-public Obras Sociales, which contract the bulk of services with private providers
(see also paras. 2.14 to 2.19). The vast majority of Argentine physicians, who are
organized in provincial and national professional associations, are engaged in private
practice at least on a part-time basis. Private health services have grown rapidly in recent
years as a result of skillful marketing, growth of contractual opportunities with the Obras
Sociales, and increasing consumer dissatisfaction with the quality of public health services.
2.10          Although the bulk of services covered through the Obras Sociales are
contracted from private (about 90 percent of all contracted services) or public providers,
some of the Obras Sociales do provide a portion of services directly through their own
network of facilities. Traditionally, providers have been paid on a fee-for-service basis,
although Obras Sociales today employ a variety of other contracting methods, including
capitation and case-based arrangements. Some of the Obras Sociales for white collar
workers have contracts with private insurance plans to provide services to their members.2
2.11          Health Care Expenditures and Financing. Argentina's total
expenditures on health (more than 7 percent of GDP in 1993) are high for an upper-middle
income developing country, more closely approximating OECD expenditure patterns.
Sectoral expenditures are financed by federal and provincial taxes and other government
revenues (about 22 percent of total expenditures), social insurance taxes (36 percent), and
household payments, either direct (e.g., drug purchases) or through private health
insurance (42 percent). (See Table 2.2).
Surveys of several general public hospitals revealed that 30 to 50 percent of patients actually have
insurance, even though the hospitals recover only a negligible fraction of their costs from the
insurers. Five percent of Obras Sociales members who were hospitalized in 1994 reported that they
relied on public health services, frequently without cost recovery. For the roughly one-third of the
Argentine population without health insurance who rely heavily on the public delivery system, the
Government is also studying options for implementing some form of subsidized insurance in which
"money follows the patient" to the doctors or hospital chosen by the patient.
2   More information on private health care is provided in Annex K of this report



12
Table 2.2: Health Expenditures in 1993, by Source
(as percent of GDP and percent of total healtb expenditures)
Total Expenditure  % of Total  % of GDP
(million current   Health  (1993)
ArS)            Spending
Federal Government               357            2          0.14
PUBLIC SECTOR      Provincial Governments
(including Metro. Buenos Aires)    3022       16         1.18
Municipal Governments            639            4         0.25
Subtotal                     3988            22         1.57
National Obras Sociales (ANSSAL)   2787        13          1.09
OBRAS SOCLI LES    Provincial Obras Sociales        1311            7         0.51
PAMU(INSSJP)                    2211           12         0.87
Other                            367            2         0.14
Subtotal                     6677            36         2.61
Indirect (pre-pagas, mutuales,
PRIVATE SECTOR       private plans)                 3539           19         1.39
Direct (medications, direct medical
care)                         4161            23         1.63
Subtotal                     7700            42         3.02
TOTAL                                             18,374           100        7.20
Source: MSAS
2.12          Health care delivered in public facilities is financed from general tax
revenues, with 75 percent of funding from provincial governments, 16 percent from
municipalities and 9 percent from the federal government. The role of MSAS is now
largely limited to funding of a handful of high priority programs (e.g., immunization and
food supplementation) and a statistical service. Provincial governments finance health
expenditures through locally raised taxes on assets and economic transactions and selected
automatic federal transfers, channeled to the provinces through discretionary grants or
federal revenue sharing. In municipalities which have assumed responsibility for health
service delivery, local revenues are supplemented by provincial transfers.
2.13         In addition to "out of pocket" expenditures for drugs and services, private
financing is represented by the financial intermediation of commercial insurers or similar
financial groups, who cover on a pre-paid basis services provided by private clinics or
HMOs. Around 200 private insurance plans (pre-pagas) cover an estimated three million
individuals. In addition, there are about 1,000 non-profit mutual insurance funds
(mutuales), which offer health care plans funded by individual contributions.
2.14          Social Health Insurance Funds (the National Obras Sociales). The
Argentine social insurance system, collectively known as the Obras Sociales, accounts for
about 36 percent of health sector expenditures3. The national Obras Sociales make up the
3   More information on the Obras Sociales is provided in Annex H of this report.



13
largest share, at 15 percent of national health expenditures.' Most formal sector workers
and their dependents in Argentina are required to receive health insurance through a health
insurance fund (Obra Social) linked to their place of employment -- workers are "captive"
members of their Obra Social, to the extent that they are automatically assigned and have
no freedom to select membership in other funds. There are about 310 Obras Sociales in
operation,5 which together cover about 18 million Argentines (about 55 percent of the
total population), including: (a) 9 million members of the national Obras Sociales; (b) 5
million members of province-based Obras Sociales (health funds for employees of the
provincial and municipal governments); and (c) about 4 million members of the Program
of Integrated Medical Care (Programa de Atenci6n Medica Integral, or PAMI), a special
Obra serving primarily the elderly and disabled (see also paras. 2.20 to 2.27).
2.15          The Obras Sociales differ among themselves considerably in terms of size,
benefits provided, and financial stability. The seventeen largest national Obras Sociales,
each of which has over 100,000 members, account for 57 percent of total enrollment.
However, given the establishment of individual Obras Sociales by occupation and
industry, there is a proliferation of Obras Sociales with very small memberships.
Although there are eight legally recognized types of Obras Sociales, the most important at
the national level are: (a) the Obras Sociales sindicales, made up of workers under
collective labor contracts (55 percent of beneficiaries); (b) Obras Sociales de
administraci6n mixfa, which are jointly managed by the public sector and workers'
representatives (28 percent of beneficiaries)6; and (c) Obras Sociales for white collar
employees (personal de direcci6n), which serve managerial employees from one or more
industries (seven percent of beneficiaries).
2.16          The Obras Sociales receive most revenues through the Social Security
system, through a flat percentage of wages paid by both employers and employees, up to a
ceiling of US$3,750 per month.' As the social insurance funds group together workers
with similar income levels, the average revenue per beneficiary varies greatly across the
4   Discussion here reflects only these national Obras.
5   ANSSAL records indicate an additional eighty Obras Sociales which remain on the books, but report
no current activity or members.
6 Presidential Decree 492/95 (September 1995) calls for the dissolution of the Obras de
administracion mixta, which would then be reconstituted as Obras Sindicales. This would permit
these Obras to reorganize and shed excess personnel without being subjed to civil service
regulations.
7   A handful of Obras Sociales receive what is called 'extraordinary' income. For the Obras Sociales
of banking sector employees, this extraordinary income consists of a percent of the commissions of
bank transactions. In the insurance sector, extraordinary income accrues from insurance
transactions. The Obra Social for tobacco workers receives a percent of cigarette sales. Many Obras
Sociales also receive subsidies from ANSSAL on a month-to-month basis. Obras Sociales also
receive inflows from fees from the sale of coupons that entitle members to visit physicians or to be
admnitted into hospitals. Obras Sociales members also pay co-payments for services. Some of the
richest Obras Sociales earn income from other sources, particularly assets (in some cases, including
non-health-related assets) which they might own.



14
Obras Sociales (see Table 2.3), which, in turn, results in a wide disparity in the health
services that insured workers are able to receive.
Table 2.3: Average Monthly Revenue per Beneficiary (1994)
Type of Obra Social (national only)      % of       Monthly Revenue per
Total      Beneficiary (US$)
Sindicales                                56          19
Mixed administration                      28         28
"White Collar" (Personal de Direcci6n)     7         51
All Others                                 9         28
TOTAL                                     100        23
Source: DGI
2.17         The National Administration of Health Insurance (Administraci6n
Nacional del Seguro de la Salud, or ANS SAL), the regulatory body representing the
"national" Obras Sociales, has operated a central redistribution fund (Fondo Solidario de
Redistribuci6n, or FSR), which is financed by ten percent of the aggregate payroll
contribution of each of the Obras Sociales.8 The FSR is supposed to provide cross-
subsidies, on the basis of transparent and automatic criteria, to Obras Sociales which are
not able to purchase a basic level of services for its members. However, in practice, FSR
has not served the objective of redistributing income from the wealthiest to the poorest
Obras Sociales, because equity redistribution criteria are frequently overruled by political
considerations, and because the resources flowing into FSR are insufficient to equalize or
nearly equalize average per capita revenue across the Obras Sociales.9
2.18         Efforts to promote greater equity and efficiency across the Obras Sociales
are frustrated by the absence of cost containment incentives and by the influence of other
factors encouraging waste of resources. There is no mandated package of services that
Obras must provide for their members. This fact, combined with varying revenues, means
that while some of the wealthier Obras Sociales are able to offer health services which are
comprehensive in nature, the poorer funds with lower average per capita income can cover
far less than is necessary. Second, as Obras Sociales serve captive populations --
frequently reimbursing medical services on a fee-for-service basis -- who cannot leave
even if they are unhappy with the services provided, managers of the funds do not have
strong incentives to operate efficiently. Third, lax enforcement of existing regulations robs
9   The white collar Obras Sociales contribute 15 percent of total payroll contributions, and special
taxes on banking and insurance transactions have also provided an important source of revenue for
the FSR With the adoption of Decree 292/95 in August 1995, responsibility for managing the FSR
was taken away from ANSSAL and a new system of "automatic distribution" by the Ministry of
Economy's internal revenue service was introduced.
9   More information on the operations of the FSR is provided in Annex I of this report.



15
the Obras Sociales of resources that should be available for workers' health care. For
example, many employers keep some workers "off the books" to evade payment of the
stipulated payroll taxes, while some of the Obras Sociales have failed to keep
administrative outlays below the legally mandated ceiling of ten percent of total
expenditures.
2.19         As a result, many Obras Sociales do not operate on the basis of sound
business practices and are now in financial disarray. As of late 1995, ANSSAL estimated
that the national system carried a debt of more than US$500 million, mostly owed to
providers.' Ten individual Obras Sociales account for 65 percent of this debt. While
accumulated debt represents a relatively small share of annual income in some cases (e.g.,
only 12 percent for OSECAC, the Obra Social for commercial workers and the largest
single Obra Social), debt is crippling in other instances (e.g., 545 percent of annual
income in the case of Ferroviario, the Obra Social covering railway workers). For the
poorest Obras Sociales, the inability to depend upon the receipt from ANSSAL of "pro-
equity" redistributive FSR transfers on the basis of automatic and transparent criteria
encourages managers to assume debt, which, over time, has developed into an argument
to claim subsidies from ANSSAL from the FSR In addition to the factors listed in the
paragraph above, factors contributing to the indebtedness of many Obras Sociales include:
(a) excess personnel; (b) poorly performing assets; and (c) weak accountability to
members and to ANSSAL.
2.20        PAMI The Program of Integrated Medical Care (Programa de Atenci6n
Medica Integral, or PAMI) was created in 1971 as the health insurance program of the
National Social Services Institute for Retirees and Pensioners (Instituto Nacional de
Servicios Socialespara Jubiladosy Pensionados, or INSSJP). INSSJP membership of
about 4 million comprises: (a) slightly less than 1.7 million retirees (jubilados); (b) about
one million pensioners (pensionados), who either have no labor history (e.g., widows or
widowers ofjubilados) or who have received disability pensions for work-related
accidents and illnesses; and (c) about 741,000 spouses of retirees or pensioners, 500,000
minor children and 66,000 other family members. Although PAMI is known primarily as a
medical insurance program for the elderly, only 70 percent of its beneficiaries are aged 60
or older. About 14 percent are between the ages of 40 and 60 (as a result of the
continuing possibility of early retirement on the basis of years of service), while 7 percent
are children under the age of 14.11 Nearly half a million INSS1P members are from
households that do not contribute to the Instituto, and thus create a major financial
burden. These include families with "discretionary" pensions awarded by government
officials and veterans of war.
2.21        Through various Government decrees, INSSIP health care benefits have
been extended to a disparate group of beneficiaries (and family members), including
HIV/AIDS patients, veterans of the Falldands War, and mothers with more than seven
10  The accumulated debt of the Obras Socdales is not Government-guaranteed
More information on PAMI is provided in Annex J of this reporL



16
children -- beneficiary groups that do not contribute revenues to INSSJP. The
Government estimates that about 400,000 individuals who do not meet INS SJP's original
membership criteria (i.e., about 10 percent of total INSSJP members) are receiving
benefits. As a result of the recent Decree 292/95, approximately 325,000 of these persons
will be removed from INSSJP's beneficiary population and transferred to programs of the
Secretariat of Social Development.
2.22         INSSJP operations, of which PAMI accounts for about eighty percent,12
are funded by: (a) an automatic transfer of three percent of employee and two percent of
employer payroll contributions (under Decreto 492/95, the employer contribution will be
reduced by an average of about 30 percent); and (b) a tax on retirement pay and other
pensions.13 As a result, current INSSJP beneficiaries themselves contribute about 19
percent of the costs of their own insurance.
2.23         Nmety percent of those eligible are covered directly by PAMI, while ten
percent - currently, about 325,000 individuals - choose to stay with their Obra of origin
(Obra de origen). Individuals always have the right to move to PAMI, but, once having
made that decision, are not allowed to return to their Obra de origen. The PAMI medical
program spends a monthly average of $47 for its members on health services and
products. Expenditures vary among provinces, however, given differences in age
composition of beneficiaries, prices paid for medical services, and quantity and type of
services utilized.
2.24         INSSJP transfers to the Obras subsidies for those individuals who retain
coverage through their Obras de origen, with these subsidies ranging from 13 to 29 pesos
per month. This is less than the average cost of direct service provision by PAMI to its
beneficiaries and is well below the actual cost to the Obra of financing health care for
these elderly members. As a result, the Obras cover retirees at a financial loss unless they
are healthier than the average. Until now, the Obras have generally been able to absorb
these losses, because retirees made up only a small fraction of their total beneficiaries.
However, the privatization of state enterprises and the resulting increase in the population
of retired persons have created serious financial difficulties for some Obras.
2.25         With the passage of Decreto 292/95 in August 1995, the resources
transferred from INSSJP to the Obras was increased and unified for all Obras at 36 pesos
per month for aDl beneficiaries over the age of 60. This will require an increase of about
S28 million a year in INSSJP transfers to Obras to continue to cover the 325,000 persons
12  About 6 percent of the INSSJP budget supports a program of non-medical social services
(prestaciones sociales), while four percent goes towards central adminstration. The subsidio a la
pobreza, created in 1993, provides additional assistance to retirees and pensioners with monthly
incomes below $150, who do not own a home and who are not cared for by their children.
Qualfying individuals aged 80 and above receive a monthly supplement of $80, while those under
80 receive a monthly supplement of $60.
13  Three percent is levied on the "minimum" pension, with six percent on any additional amount.



17
who currently choose this option. Still, this unified per capita transfer amount, which is
substantially less than what PAMS spends for health care for its members, may well be too
low to give the Obras adequate incentives to compete with PAMN As of February 1996,
a total of only 12 Obras had registered to accept any INSSJP beneficiary, while another
32 Obras had registered to accept retirees who had previously belonged to that Obra
while working.
2.26         INSSJP's ability to finance members' health care needs through PAMI has
been frustrated by the agency's responsibility for financing non-medical social programs,
several of which had been transferred to INSSJP without a corresponding increase in
financial resources. Although some social programs were removed from the INSSlP's
jurisdiction during 1995 as part of the reform of the Institute, substantial revenues have
been withheld by the social security agency since January 1995 for financing of the
subsidio a la pobreza"4 and a subsidy for death-related expenses (subsidio por sepelio).
The recreation and tourism program and funding for retirees' associations have been
eliminated from the INSSJP budget. Major social assistance programs still financed by the
Institute include Probienestar, a food supplementation program with projected 1995
expenditures of about $111 million, and wide-ranging "Econornic Subsidies and Health
Protection" activities costing about $39 million in 1995.
2.27         In recent years, increasing demands such as greater utilization of medical
services, higher expenditures for pharmaceuticals, the subsidio a lapobreza, and higher
administrative expenses upon a relatively static revenue base have compressed funds
available for financing of members' medical care, while forcing INSSJP into sizable
deficits. In 1994, INSSJP's operating deficit totaled about $360 million, which was
financed through a combination of loans from ANSSAL, the social security system, and
the state-owned Banco de la Nacion, and the accumulation of debt with providers.
2.28         In January 1995, the Government appointed a new special regulator
(Interventor) of the INS SJP and charged him with implementing short-term measures to
make significant cuts in annual INSSJP expenditures in 1995. The Interventor was also
asked to devise a medium-term strategy for resolving the agency's structural problems that
were causing increasing levels of debt and declining quality of services. He imposed a
virtual freeze on hiring and started to re-examine many of the Institute's contracts with
private health care providers and suppliers of pharmaceuticals and medical devices.
2.29         At the end of May 1995, the Interventor reported on the limited progress
he had been able to achieve in five months, and made a series of medium-term
recommendations to reform INSSJP. They included separating INSSJP's health care
apparatus from its social programs; limiting INSSJP's financial responsibilities for these
social programs in the absence of new revenue sources; reducing INSSlP's staff by
14  The subsidio a la pobreza, created in 1993, provides additional assistance to retirees and pensioners
with monthly incomes below $150, who do not own a home and who are not cared for by their
children. Qualifying individuals aged 80 and above receive a monthly supplement of S80, while
those under 80 receive a monthly supplement of $60.



18
around one-third (i.e., about 5,000 of its current 14,000 employees); and continuing to
renegotiate contracts with drug and medical equipment suppliers and with private doctors
and hospitals.
2.30        The new Interventor who assumed office in July 1995 (and who still holds
this position) has remained fully committed to implementing his predecessor's program of
measures to raise the INSSJP's efficiency and restore its financial balance. Actions either
under discussion or already being implemented, which could potentially save about
US$500 million a year when fully implemented, include:
(a)   Reductions in INSSJP staff. INSSJP suffers from significant overstaffing
and high administrative costs, as suggested by the tripling of agency staff
between 1988 and 1995. A staff survey and organizational study are
currently being conducted. Staffing cuts could save about $150 million a
year or about 35 percent of the current wage bill.
(b)   Reduction of support to selected social programs. INSSJP has already
terminated or drastically reduced spending on some non-medical programs
(e.g., PAMI-CINE and Child Tourism Programs), and is seeking ways to
transfer the financing of Probienestar and other social programs to other
government agencies.
(c)   Reduction of average PAMI capitation payments. There are indications
that by using competitive bidding to award capitation contracts to
consortia of doctors and hospitals, the average monthly capitation payment
could be reduced from the current average of US$25 to US$21 without
affecting the quality of services. This would result in annual savings of
US$120 million.
(d)   Non-contributing members. Consolidation and updating of current partial
registers of beneficiaries could also help contain health and social
expenditures. An updated register would allow INSSJP to identify more
clearly the non-contributing individuals who have been receiving benefits.
The transfer of 325,000 non-contributing beneficiaries would save about
US$125 million a year.
(e)   Improved control over pharmaceuticals. It is estimated that by
implementing stricter controls over physicians' prescription practices and
using a bar-coding system for drug sales to eliminate fraudulent billing for
pharmaceuticals, INSSJP could save at least US$36 million a year.
(f)   Externalizing services. Outsourcing of the INSSJP's own ambulance
service in the Buenos Aires area and of two polyclinics in Rosario in the
Province of Santa Fe could save the Institute about US$32 million a year.



19
(g)    Patient referrals. It is estimated that improved monitoring and prior
approval of patient transfers and referrals could reduce INSSJP's
expenditures by more than US$30 million a year.
2.31          The current Interventor has already made a modest start in implementing
these measures. About 200 INSSJP employees have already accepted voluntary
retirement or layoff packages; some contracts with private providers are being
renegotiated; and a few of the non-medical social programs have been terminated or
transferred to other Government agencies. Several factors worked against financial
equilibrium in 1995, however. The Instituto's revenue base grew by about 10 percent a
month (US$25 million) during the first part of the year but dipped in late in 1995, when
the reductions in employer contributions went into effect. The INSSJP was also forced to
spend over US$300 million from its own revenues for subsidio a lapobreza during the
January-August. As a result, the INSSJP is likely to incur another large operating deficit
for 1995, conservatively estimated at US$275 million. This is being financed through a
further inerease in liabilities".
2.32          In order to achieve an operating surplus, the full progran of proposed
reforms must be implemented as soon as possible. This can only be done with a special
infusion of external resources needed to finance redundancy packages for employees,
restructure the Instituto's short-term debts to health care providers, and pay for the
technical assistance required to design and implement a new organizational structure,
improved management of contracting and purchasing, and outsourcing of health care
services currently provided directly by the INSSJP.
B. Major Issues in Health Insurance16
2.33          Rising debts and declining revenues within the national Obras Sociales
system and in INSSJP, growing concerns about the inefficiency of these social insurance
institutions and the inadequate quality of the health services they finance, plus increasing
worries about the high cost of health care in Argentina, are heightening political pressures
to carry out substantial reforms of the Obras Sociales and INSSJP. Newspaper articles
appeared frequently last year, describing INSSJP's financial difficulties and the threats of
private doctors and hospitals to refuse care to sick patients because they had not been paid
15 Interim financial statements for 1995 presented at loan negotiations and discussed after negotiations
suggest that the operating deficit for last year may run as high as $400-500 million, when INSSJP
income is counted on a cash basis and expenditures on an accrual basis. The methodology for
calculating the operating result has aleady been fully agreed, and the specific performance numbers
for 1995 will be agreed prior to the first tranche supervision mission.
16 The material in this section draws heavily upon the Bank's sector study on Argentina health
financing. Sector work was initiated in November 1994, and a first draft of the sector report has
been completed.



20
by INS SJP or some of the larger Obras Sociales.'7 Top politicians, including the
President and the Minister of the Economy, have spoken forcefully in recent months of the
need to reform the social health insurance system.
2.34          The main short-term issues facing Argentine politicians, policy-makers, and
the general public as they consider options for insurance reform include: (a) how to use
competition among the national Obras Sociales to improve efficiency, quality, and
accountability; (b) how to structure and manage the allocation of resources from a central
fund to compensate for differences in household income and health risk; and (c) how to
strengthen the capacity of the Obras Sociales and INSS1P to manage health insurance
better and to improve the regulation of the insurance system. These three pressing issues
are discussed in greater detail below. A fourth issue -- how to reduce the current implicit
subsidies from the public sector to the Obras Sociales through free care provided by
public hospitals to Obra members -- is being tackled as part of the World Bank-supported
Provincial Health Sector Development Project (Loan No. 393 1-AR), which will establish
an identification system for Obras beneficiaries as a means of improving cost-recovery.'8
2.35          Competitive Social Health Insurance. As mentioned earlier, Argentine
workers and their dependents do not at present have a choice of insurer.'9 Instead, they
automatically belong to the Obra connected with their place of employment. Obras
Sociales tend to be associated directly with specific industries (e.g., textile workers) or
professions (e.g., the commercial sector). The government is now proposing to give
workers a choice of Obra, thus requiring the Obras Sociales to compete with one another
for members. It is expected that such competition will improve the efficiency of the Obras
Sociales and raise the quality of care financed by them, while enhancing the related
satisfaction of consumers with their insurers and with their health services.
Simultaneously, the Government expects that a combination of competition and regulation
will lead to a consolidation of the Obras Sociales system by eliminating small,
uneconomical, and poorly managed funds. It is thought that after several years of
competition, the number of Obras Sociales will decline significantly from over 350 at
17  Fortmately, INSSJP has managed to continue paying enough to its suppliers and medical providers
to avoid any cut-off of services. However, arrears to service providers have continued to mount, and
some providers have been paid at the expense of having INSSJP incur additional liabilities to
government financial institutions.
Is In the longer run, there are other issues, too, including how to encouragc health care provider
contracting and payment methods that help to contain health spending, and how to expand health
insurance to cover the roughly one quarter of the population (eight million persons) without
insurance coverage, who rely heavily on the public sector to obtain health care. These issues are
being addressed as part of the policy analysis components of the Provincial Health Development
Project and of the proposed operation described in this report.
19 One important exception to this is that a few of the larger Obras Sociales for white-collar employees
do compete already with each other.



21
present to far fewer Obras, with a larger average size of, say, 200,000 members each."
Some mergers are already starting to occur, through the creation of federations of Obras.
New regulations developed as part of the proposed loan will make this process of merger
and liquidation of Obras more orderly.
2.36         At least two approaches to liberalizing the market for health insurance have
been considered in Argentina. The first, more radical one would be to open the market
immediately, giving all 12-14 million beneficiaries (including the elderly) a choice of
insurer. Given the potentially disruptive effect this might have, with large-scale movement
of persons from one Obra Social to another, the Government has opted for a more
gradual and orderly transition process. Under this scenario, partial liberalization would
take place during the first year of the reform. This would include requiring families with
double affiliation (either because both spouses work and belong to different Obras
Sociales, or because one household member holds two jobs) to choose a single Obra
Social; and giving the elderly a choice of belonging to INSSJP or to the Obra Social with
which they were affiliated prior to retirement (the Obra de origen)21. Later in the second
year, all persons covered by the social insurance system would be allowed to choose their
Obra Social. Again, to sustain an orderly system, there would be a single period of the
year (like the "open season" for changing insurer in the US Federal Employee Benefits
Plan and systems in some European countries such as Germany and Holland) when
persons could move from one Obra Social to another.
2.37         With the advent of competition among the Obras Sociales, the Argentines
are aware that they will have to deal with a new set of potential problems related to health
risk. Obras Sociales will naturally wish to avoid insuring those with higher risks, such as
the elderly and sick and those with pre-existing conditions. The recent experience of Chile
with the creation of the ISAPRES, a private insurance option for those covered by the
compulsory system, is instructive. In the roughly fifteen years since the ISAPRES began,
this practice of avoiding poor risks and thus "skimming the cream" has been difficult to
overcome. At the same time, with competition among the Obras Sociales, healthier and
wealthier persons may wish to opt out of the health insurance system entirely, essentially
self-insuring from their own savings.
2.38         Argentine policy-makers intend to deal with the latter problem of opting
out by continuing to make participation in social health insurance compulsory for all wage
workers; i.e., individuals will be at liberty to choose their Obra Social but cannot drop
their insurance coverage. To resolve the issue of risk selection, they intend to enforce an
open-door or all-comers policy: Obras Sociales will be required to admit all persons who
apply for coverage, without discrimination, for a standard health benefits package (now
20 Precisely this kind of consolidation has occurred in the social insurance system of the Netherlands
over the past ten years.
21  The issue of when and how to incorporate self-employed workers (trabajadores autonomos) in the
Obra system is still being debated in Argentina This would be one important way of expanding the
population coverage and the revenue base.



22
called the Programa Medico Obligatorio, or PMO). Substantial progress has already
been achieved in this area. It is estimated that a package covering the vast majority of
health services available in Argentina would cost less than US$20 monthly per capita,
compared with current average revenues of US$24 per capita in the Obras Sociales
system as a whole. After all are covered for the basic package, the Obras Sociales will be
free not only to compete with one another, but to sell additional service coverage to
whomever they choose. The Government's is specifying the content and cost of the PMO
and will issue a Resolution enforcing the PMO at the time the proposed reform loan is
signed.
2.39         Income and Risk Compensation. As discussed earlier, the average
revenue per beneficiary varies enormously from one Obra to another, from as little as
US$5 to over US$50 a month. The FSR, with income of over US$400 million a year
from earmarked payroll contributions and other extraordinary levies, is supposed to be
used to compensate Obras Sociales with low average contributions from their members.
In practice, however, resources from the FSR have been allocated mainly on political
grounds and to bail out Obras Sociales running financial deficits, regardless of the cause
of these deficits.
2.40         As part of the reform of the Obras Sociales, it is proposed that the FSR
should be allocated automatically and strictly on the basis of members' income, starting
with the poorest. In this way, the FSR would help to create a "floor" level of revenue per
beneficiary in the Obras Sociales system. This floor level would be related to the cost of
the basic benefits package (i.e., the subsidy provided would equal the cost of the basic
package minus average revenue or, in the case of the individual subsidy under free
election, equal to the cost of the basic package minus the member's individual
contribution), thus ensuring that all members would have adequate insurance funds to pay
for these benefits, if the Obras operate efficiently~2. In the early stages of the reform,
when most members would still not be able to choose their Obra Social, the FSR would
be distributed to Obras Sociales with the lowest average contribution per beneficiary.
Recent Bank simulations have shown, for example, that if ANSSAL's 1994 income were
allocated in this manner, it would have brought all Obras Sociales up to a floor level of
US$18 per beneficiary monthly. Later, with free choice of insurer, the FSR would be
distributed to Obras Sociales to compensate individual households with the lowest payroll
tax contributions per beneficiary. The individual subsidy under free choice will imply
larger transfers than those required with only an average subsidy, since all low-income
members will have to be subsidized even if the Obra Social, on average, has sufficient
revenue to pay for the package.
2.41         Fortunately, Argentina already possesses a data base that can be used to
establish this system of automatic distribution. This is the data base maintained by the
22  Decree 292/95 included a provision for starting the system of automatic distribution by the DGI,
which officially went into effect on October 31, 1995. The impact of the new system needs to be
carefully evaluated, especially in view of the current imperfections in the existing enrollment data
base.



23
national tax collection agency, the Direcci6n General Impositiva (DGI), using monthly
employee declarations submitted by employers along with their social security
contributions. However, to make automatic distribution from the FSR work smoothly and
efficiently, the DGI data base (the padr6n de beneficiaios) will need to be cleaned and
the number of dependents for each worker will need to be carefully verified.
2.42               Argentine policy-makers are also facing the issue of how to
structure the national Obras Sociales system to deal with differences in health risk among
households. Again, it is fortunate that the current system possesses some useful features.
Since PAMI has a separate source of funding from the Obras Sociales, its average
revenues of nearly US$60 per beneficiary monthly (as compared to US$24 for the Obras
Sociales) enable it to finance a larger volume of health services for its older and thus
generally sicker population. ANSSAL also operates a small but important financing
channel for infrequent, high-cost procedures for the Obras Sociales beneficiaries. These
procedures include kidney dialysis, treatment for hemophiliacs, and organ transplants. The
financing channel, known informally as the fund for alta complejidad, accounted for about
$12 million in ANSSAL spending in 1994 and $18 million in 1995.
2.43        The Government is trying to decide whether to maintain this form of
reinsurance for the Obras Sociales as part of the impending reform of the system. If alta
complejidad does continue, it is important that it be managed in an honest and objective
manner, without favoring certain Obras Sociales over others, and that its use be limited to
a small number of expensive procedures.23 Partly for this reason, it is proposed that the
funds for alta complejidad be managed by an independent agency, probably separate from
the new social insurance regulatory body to be developed. Another complementary
approach would be to adjust the per capita payments from the FSR to Obras Sociales to
take into account differences in health risk as reflected in factors such as beneficiaries'
age, gender, occupation, and place of residence. This is the way in which the Dutch and
Germans are currently attempting to compensate for risk in their social health insurance
systems. However, to achieve this decree of calibration in the distribution of the FSR, the
pad6n would have to be upgraded to capture a number of demographic variables (age,
gender, etc.) not currently in the data collection system.
2.44        Institutional Development and Regulation Considering the fact that the
national Obras Sociales and INSS1P together manage over US$6 billion a year for health
care -- almost 2 percent of GDP -- their institutional capacity is in general quite weak.
While several of the Obras Sociales have developed sophisticated computerized
information systems, most Obras Sociales have manual systems for managing
beneficiaries, personnel, drugs, and finances. These systems are not adequate for the
Obras Sociales to operate successfully in the competitive environment being created under
the planned reform. Similarly, even though many of the Obras Sociales are seriously
overstaffed (two of the large Obras Sociales have more than 5,000 excess personnel and
23 In recent years, this funding channel has been used to pay for some lower-cost interventions, such as
the supply and fitting of wooden prosteses.



24
INSSJP estimates that it needs to cut its personnel expenditures by 20 percent), their
managers and supervisors are often not fully qualified. Any meaningful reform of the
Obras Sociales and INSSJP will therefore require a major effort at reorganizing these
institutions, installing better management information systems, and rationalizing and
retraining personnel.
2.45        Improved performance by the Obras Sociales may be spurred by
competition among them for members, but will also require a more effective form of
regulation than in the past. To achieve and sustain the contemplated reforms, for example,
the Government and its regulatory agencies will have to define the content of the basic
health benefits package and ensure that all Obras Sociales are delivering it to their
members. It will also need to set and enforce minimum financial standards for the Obras
Sociales (e.g., capital and liquidity requirements) and require that all Obras Sociales
report regularly on their financial operations using standard formats and independent
external audits.
2.46        ANSSAL, the current regulator for the Obras Sociales, is not at present
well equipped to handle these responsibilities. Like the Obras Sociales, ANSSAL is not
adequately staffed and many of its own information systems are weak or non-existent.
Since its creation in 1989, ANSSAL -- like its predecessor institution (Instituto Nacional
de Obras Sociales, or INOS) -- has been treated by the Government and viewed by the
public as a politically-charged institution with close ties to organized labor, rather than as
a politically neutral body staffed by technical personnel. Successful reform of Argentina's
health insurance must therefore include a major change in ANSSAL that would lead to the
creation of an effective regulatory agency for the Obras Sociales and INSS1P. The main
social health insurance law (Ley 23.661) also created the Direcci6n Nacional de Obras
Sociales (DINOS) with partial authority to regulate the Obras. However, the division of
responsibilities between ANSSAL and DINOS has never been clarified and DINOS has
not been made operational. These ambiguities and weaknesses will be resolved under the
proposed loan.
2.47        There is at present no regulatory framework for the pre-pagas. This has
led to a number of cases of insolvency and closure, with consumers suddenly losing their
benefits. Others have been defrauded by unscrupulous owners of a few pre-pagas. There
have also been numerous complaints from those insured by the pre-pagas that treatments
for certain illnesses have been excluded in the "fine print" of their contracts, thus leaving
patients exposed to unexpected high costs of care. For all these reasons, there is a
growing consensus among the pre-pagas, medical care providers, and the Government
that the future of pre-paid private insurance in Argentina depends on the establishment of
a regulatory system. Increasingly, there is also a common understanding among the
different parties that regulations should be designed to improve the functioning of a
competitive market for insurance (with the pre-pagas required to offer the same basic
package as the Obras Sociales), protect basic consumer rights, and not to suffocate the
pre-pagas with excessive bureaucratic controls. Several draft decrees for regulation of the
pre-pagas have already been circulated. The main issue at present revolves around
whether the pre-pagas should be regulated by the existing Superintendency for Insurance



25
or by a separate agency for private health insurance. The Government intends to come to
closure on this issue as part of the impending reform and to promote a process of
consensus-building between the pre-pagas (as represented by their two large trade
associations), consumer and provider groups, and the public sector.24
C. The Government's Health Insurance Reform Program
2.48        Early Initiatives. Starting in 1991-1992, the current Government
investigated options for reforming the health insurance system, and pursued one initiative
to change the Obras Sociales during early 1993. The adoption of two decrees (Decretos
9/93 and 576/93) did encourage limited competition among the Obras Sociales for white-
collar workers and helped to weaken the monopolistic practices of the provincial medical
associations and hospital groups in their contract negotiations with the Obras Sociales.
More profound changes in the insurance system were thwarted, however, by: (a) the
political unacceptability of the radically egalitarian proposal from the Ministry of Economy
to pool all insurance contributions and allocate a uniform insurance premium per capita
(the cuotaparte para asistencia medica); (b) the absence of an independent and capable
regulatory body to set and supervise standards for financial and health services
performance and to redistribute compensatory financing; and (c) the shortage of financial
resources and incentives to enable the Obras Sociales to restructure their debts, improve
their operations and cash flow, and upgrade their organization and management practices.
2.49        This situation has altered considerably over the past twelve months. The
overall economic crisis and the worsening financial situation of the Obras Sociales and
INSSJP have created favorable conditions for embarking on a major reform of the system.
Political support for reform has grown substantially, even though there is some resistance
to change from individual trade union leaders and medical care provider groups. Most of
the Obras Sociales need emergency financial support and stronger management, and are
open to the prospect of increased competition and accountability as the quid quo pro for
receiving financial and technical assistance. As shown in several recent surveys,
consumers -- the insured beneficiaries -- are now demanding from the Obras Sociales
improvements in access to and quality of insured health care. Many consumers see
competition as an important instrument for achieving this. The Government, including
both the Ministries of Economy and Health, is seeking greater efficiency and cost control,
in order to avoid an expensive financial bail-out of the insurance funds further down the
road. Reform of the Obras Sociales and INSSJP is high on the Government's agenda for
both macroeconomic and health sector reform.
2.50        Current Approach. The Government's current health insurance reform
program is enunciated in a series of documents drafted over the past year. Some of these
emerged as part of the preparation of the World Bank-financed Provincial Health Sector
Development Project.25 Others26 were written in tandem with the data collection and
24 More information on priority sector reform requirements is provided in Annex E of this reporL
25 PRESSAL Documento No. 1, Ministerio de Salud de la Repuiblica Argentina, December 1994.



26
analysis for a World Bank sector study on health financing, which the Ministries of
Economy and Health asked the Bank to carry out starting in September 1994. The main
objectives of the reform, the principal actions proposed, and their sequencing emerge
importantly from the Bank sector study. In this sense, the Bank strongly supports the
approach to reform currently being followed by the Government.
2.51         The Government's long-term vision of health insurance is one of universal
coverage of the population; a standard benefits package with a generous set of preventive
and clinical health services available to every Argentine citizen; a number of non-
governmental insurance institutions (evolving from today's Obras and pre-pagas)
competing for members; public financing (from wage taxes or general revenues) of at
least the standard benefits package; and of a single regulatory agency overseeing the entire
system.
2.52         Over the next two years, the Government intends to start moving toward
this system through a first phase health insurance reform program focusing on the Obras
and INSSJP. This program has three main thrusts. One is to set up a new legal and
regulatory framework for the Obras Sociales and INS SJP -- via a series of policy decrees
and institutional changes -- that encourages greater efficiency, equity, and service
coverage and quality by health insurers. Competition among insurers for beneficiaries, the
allocation of financial resources from a central distribution fund on the basis of insurees'
income and health risk, and the application of minimum standards for financial viability and
health services will be the principal themes of these new policies and regulations. The
second thrust of the reform is to extend financial and technical assistance to the Obras
Sociales and INSS1P for a limited time, to enable them to restructure and thus compete in
the new environment and comply with the new regulatory standards. To do so, a special
restructuring facility (Fondo de Reconversi6n de Obras Socialesy INSSJP) is being
created. The third dimension of the health insurance reform is to regulate the hitherto
unregulated private health insurers (empresas de medicina pre-paga), through the
adoption of an appropriate legal instrument (probably a decree) and the creation of a
regulatory agency for the pre-pagas.
2.53         Once the first phase of the health insurance reform is completed by 1997,
the Government plans to move forward with a second phase. This would include
extending insurance coverage to the roughly 30 percent of the population which is
currently without such coverage, and merging the Obras and pre-pagas into a unified
system in which all insurers would compete for members.
2.54         First Steps Toward Reform. The Government took major first steps
toward the reform of the social health insurance system and demonstrated its commitment
to change in this area by adopting Presidential Decrees 292 and 492 in August and
September 1995. The decrees set the legal basis and create a financing mechanism for the
standard health benefits package; improve the conditions for effective competition among
26  See, for example, the series of eight documents entitled Propuesta de Desregulaci6n de las Obras
Sociales a trav6s de Sucesivos Decretos, Ministerio de Economfa, November 1994.



27
social insurance fundholding agencies; and begin to move the INSSJP in the direction of
financial equilibrium.
2.55        The decrees authorize a national commission to define the content of the
standard health benefits package (Programa Medico Obligatorio, PMO) and guaranteed
all Obras an average monthly revenue of $40 per active worker (or an average of $17 per
family member) to deliver the package of services. The central redistribution fund for the
Obras (Fondo Solidario de Redistribucion, FSR), financed through wage taxes, was put
under the control of the Ministry of Economy, which was charged with distributing
resources directly to Obras with low-income members who contributed less than the $40
minimum. The Ministry of Economy started this new "automatic" system of
compensatory financing in October 1995, distributing US$14 million in that month to
Obras with low-income members.
2.56        To allow for greater consumer choice of Obra and foster competition
among insurers, the two decrees eliminated double coverage, by requiring households with
more than one Obra (either because a working member had two jobs, or because two or
more members each held jobs) to unify their wage tax contributions and choose a single
Obra for health coverage. The decrees further created a register of Obras willing to
accept elderly and pensioned members and required the INSSJP to make a uniform
monthly payment to Obras for members opting for an Obra over PAMI. The decrees also
transformed the large Obras with mixed public-private governance (administracion mixta)
into Obras sindicales, thus clearing the way for these Obras to reduce their staffing by
treating their workers as private employees rather than public sector civil servants.
2.57        Finally, the two decrees authorized the transfer from the INSSJP to the
Secretariat of Social Development of the roughly 500,000 beneficiaries who were not
contributing financially to the Instilulo. It also relieved the INSSJP of the responsibility
for financing from its own revenues the income subsidy to poor pensioners (subsidio a la
pobreza) and some other non-medical programs, including recreation and tourism
activities for INSSJP members. These changes are vital to enable the INSSJP to achieve
financial balance over the next two years.
2.58        Relevant International Experience. Since the current Argentine system
of multiple semi-public health insurers financed from payroll taxes (i.e., decentralized
"social" health insurance) is virtually unique in the developing world, there is little
comparable experience from developing countries which Argentina can draw on as it
proceeds with its reform. One exception is Chile, which in the early 1980s created a
system of competing private health insurers using mostly wage taxes, which has resulted in
improved service quality and consumer satisfaction for nearly a quarter of the population
now covered by these insurers. However, the failure in Chile to mandate and guarantee
adequate financing for a basic benefits package, or to require insurers to accept all
applicants for this basic level of health care, has had some adverse consequences. Lower-
wage workers are effectively priced out of the market for this type of insurance and high-
risk individuals are excluded by the private insurers. The proposed reforms in Argentina --
especially mandating the basic health benefits package, requiring insurers to accept all



28
applicants for this basic level of care, and using the Fondo Solidario de Redisoribuci6n to
ensure adequate financing for the package -- have been designed to avoid these problems.
2.59        The closest parallels with Argentina come from two developed countries,
Germany and the Netherlands, which in recent years have been moving toward systems of
competitive social insurance. While the experience of these two countries is still quite
recent, the evidence thus far indicates that competition can indeed have several desirable
effects, including increased efficiency of insurers and associated health care providers and
improved patient satisfaction. Competition has led to efficiency-enhancing consolidation
in the health insurance industry, especially in the Netherlands, where the number of
insurers has fallen by more than half over the past five years. These are some of the gains
that Argentina can expect to obtain from its health insurance reform. The German and
Dutch experiences also suggest that strong regulation of insurers and the development of
mechanisms for adjusting insurance premia among households for key risks help ensure
that competitive social health insurance is efficient and equitable and that health care costs
are kept tinder control. The proposed loan will help to develop these complementary
measures.



29
3.  THE REFORM PROGRAM
A. Background
3.1         As mentioned above, the Government requested the World Bank in the
second half of 1994 to undertake a sectoral analysis of health financing issues and
options, with a special focus on insurance and the Obras Sociales. The urgency for
undertaking an actual reform of health insurance increased substantially during early 1995,
as a result of the Mexican economic crisis and its spillover to Argentina and other Latin
American countries. The growing arrears of the Obras and INSSJP put more pressure on
the Government to find a sustainable long-run solution to the financial woes of the health
insurance funds without recourse to injections of public resources that would aggravate
the fiscal situation. Consequently, in late March 1995, the Government requested that, as
part of the World Bank's $1 .3-billion package of emergency assistance to Argentina, the
Bank help the Argentine authorities to prepare and appraise an operation for the reform of
the Obras Sociales and INSSJP, plus a companion project to protect and improve
essential poverty-oriented social spending.'
3.2         Responding to this request, the Bank sent project preparation missions to
Argentina in April and June 1995. At the same time, the Government formed its project
team and began preparation. Both the Argentine team and the Bank used the preliminary
results of the Health Financing Sector Study as the analytical underpinnings of the
proposed health insurance loan. Following national elections in May 1995, the re-elected
president, Carlos Menem, announced that the reduction of unemployment and the reform
of health -- and especially of the Obras Sociales -- would be the top priorities of his new
administration. The Minister of Economy also indicated that he viewed the unsatisfactory
performance of the Obras and INSSJP as an important macroeconomic and fiscal issue,
and announced his support for the reform of Argentina's health insurance system.
Responsibility for implementing the reform program was assigned to the Ministry of
Health in September 1995. The program was appraised by the Bank in November 1995.
At that time, the Health Minister presented the reform proposal to the President and full
cabinet, and received a unanimous endorsement.
3.3         Even though World Bank involvement in Argentina's health sector only
dates from the beginning of the Menem government in 199 1, Bank knowledge of the
sector and active participation in health have increased rapidly since then. The Maternal
and Child Health and Nutrition Project (Loan No. 3643-AR) is in its third year, targeting
poor mothers and young children in the underdeveloped northern provinces and in low-
The Argentina Social Protection Project ( World Bank loan of US$1S2 million) was negotiated in
October 1995, presented to the Board in November, and became effective on December 14, 1995.



30
income peri-urban neighborhoods. Implementation thus far has been good. The
Provincial Health Development Project (Loan No. 3931 -AR), to support the self-
managed public hospitals in Mendoza and the city and province of Buenos Aires, was
approved by the Executive Directors in August 1995 and was signed in January 1996.
The Ministry of Health has also requested the Bank to participate in a second maternal and
child health project, an AIDS prevention project, and a grant-financed technical assistance
activity to restructure and strengthen the Ministry itself
B. Loan Objectives
3.4         The objectives of the proposed loans are to start a process that will
improve the efficiency and equity of Argentina's health insurance system and to contain
the already high level of health spending in the country. The loans will provide major
support for the first phase of the health insurance reform (paras. 2.43 to 2.51), to be
carried out during 1995-1997, by:
(a)   introducing competition into the market for health insurance, while
avoiding risk selection;
(b)   reallocating resources in the FSR to Obras Sociales strictly on the basis of
income and health risk of their insured households;
(c)   developing an effective regulatory framework and institutions for health
insurance, which promote competition, ensure greater transparency and
accountability and help to protect consumers' rights; and
(d)   extending to the Obras Sociales and INSSJP financial and technical
assistance to enable them to raise their internal efficiency, improve their
balance sheets, and comply with new standards and regulations.
C. Description of Loans
3.5         An adjustment loan package of US$350 million is proposed, consisting of a
Single Currency Loan of US$250 million and a Currency Pool Loan of US$100 million
equivalent, to be disbursed in three tranches in accordance with conditions for tranche
release noted below in paras. 3.30-3.33 and in the Loan Conditionality Matrix (Annex A).
The Borrower is the Republic of Argentina, and the Implementing Agency is the Ministry
of Health. Argentina is eligible for single currency loans. It has requested a fixed-rate US
dollar single currency loan to finance the first two tranches of this reform loan in light of
its overall debt management strategy, in order to reduce its currency risk and diversity its
interest rate risk. Including this volume, Argentina has selected single currency loan terms
for $902 million (59.8 percent) of its expected FY 96 borrowing program of S1,509.4
million. The balance ofthe reform operation (USS100 million) will be financed on
standard currency pool loan terms, in order to comply with the volume limits on the
expanded single currency loan program.



31
3.6   The reform of the social insurance system will also be supported by a Technical
Assistance loan for US$25 million equivalent to finance critical institutional development
activities. The technical assistance loan will be presented to the Executive Directors
simultaneously with the adjustment loan (see Memorandum of the President, Report No.
P6852-AR). The technical assistance loan will finance the Policy Reforms and Regulatory
Development component (see paras. 3.8 to 3.13), and will also cover the cost of preparing
restructuring plans for the Obras Sociales and INSSJP and of implementing the
organization and management reforms of the INSSJP. These technical assistance activities
are summarized below, since they form an integral part of the overall health insurance
reform.
3.7         Given the type of policy and institutional reforms involved, and the
importance of maintaining political momentum throughout the reform process, the
proposed reform program is to be implemented, and the related World Bank adjustment
loan is to be disbursed, over a two-year period. The program consists of three
components: (a) Policy Reforms and Regulatory Development; (b) Restructuring of the
Obras Sociales; and (c) Restructuring of the INSSJP.
3.8         Policy Reforms and Regulatory Development The success of the health
insurance reform is predicated on the adoption and implementation of new policies in three
main areas: (a) progressive liberalization of the health insurance market, allowing
consumers an increasing choice of insurer; (b) redefining the use and operation of the
FSR, so that it compensates Obras enrolling families with lower incomes (and thus lower
individual payroll tax contributions for health insurance) and higher health risks; and (c)
regulating the Obras Sociales, INSSJP and the pre-pagas, in order to protect consumers
and promote increased efficiency and equity in these insurance markets. The principal
policy changes are described in the Letter of Development Policy in Annex B. The timely
adoption and implementation of the most important policy changes form part of the
conditionality for tranche release, as described below and in the Loan Conditionality
Matrix in Annex A.
3.9         The Government will make the necessary policy changes to give consumers
a choice of insurer and to promote competition by issuing legal instruments allowing for:
(a) choice among Obra Sindicales; (b) choice between INSSJP and Obras; and (c) choice
between Obras de Personal de Direccion and private pre-paid health plans. The
Government will also fully implement in practice the measures contained in Decrees 292
and 492 of 1995 that eliminate double coverage of individual households and make
automatic the distributions from the FSR. In view of the relevance of the ongoing
experience of Germany and the Netherlands with the reform of compulsory wage tax-
based health insurance, especially the introduction of competition among insurers, it is
expected that a substantial amount of the technical policy advice will come from these two
developed countries.
3.10        A national register of persons insured by the Obras Sociales and INSSJP
will be updated and expanded, building upon the existing data base currently maintained
by the tax collection office (DGI). This register (padr6n de beneficiarios) wiLl improve



32
the quality and consistency of the existing data, and will add substantial information on the
number, names, and demographic and health characteristics of the insured population.
The progressive upgrading of the padron is crucial to the effective functioning of the FSR
as the source of financing for a basic health benefits package and to other health sector
reforms, including the initiative to have public hospitals bill and recover costs from insured
patients.
3.11        The contents of the basic health benefits package (PMO) will be defined
and formally announced at the outset of the reform. At negotiations, the Government
committed itself to signing and issuing a resolution establishing the PMO at the time the
loan agreement is signed. The considerable analysis and consensus-building already done
on this subject suggest that a generous package of preventive and clinical care can be
provided for this cost. The main exclusions would be for advanced orthodontic services,
mental health care, and various kinds of experimental treatments (it is expected that the
FSR will continue to pay for organ transplants, kidney dialysis, and treatment of
hemophila from thefondo de alta complejidad). Combining the information on
enrollments from the padr6n with the estimated cost of the basic benefits package, FSR
resources will then be distributed to Obras to ensure that each one has adequate resources
to pay for the basic health benefits for all its members. Through Decree 492 passed in
September 1995, the Government has already provisionally set the cost of the package at
US$40 per household (an average of US$17 per beneficiary), irrespective of household
size or health risk. The detailed design of the package and the development of the padron
will enable the Government to refine the FSR and make distribution payments that take
into account health care costs and are adjusted for household size and health risk.
3.12        As part of this component, project resources will be used to improve
regulation and supervision of the Obras Sociales, INSSJP, and pre-pagas. The
Government has carried out preliminary analysis of ANSSAL and submitted a broad plan
for strengthening the regulation of the Obras. A full diagnostic study will be conducted
and a detailed institutional development plan submitted to the Bank by November 1996,
prior to second tranche release from the Single Currency Loan. The results of the study,
the new regulatory norms for the Obras, and the institutional development plan (including
building up a strong inspection and regulatory enforcement capability) will all be
implemented thereafter. As part of regulatory reform, the Government will also clarify the
regulatory roles and responsibilities of ANSSAL and the Direccion Nacional de Obras
Sociales (DINOS), which was set up several years ago in the Ministry of Health but has
never built up its staff or exercised its regulatory authority. Recently-enacted legislation
for "Reform of the State" provides a positive legal framework for making changes in the
regulation of the Obras. As a condition of second tranche release of the Single Currency
Loan, the Government will also send to the Bank a resolution regulating the pre-pagas, or
alternatively, prepare and submit to the Congress draft legislation for regulating the pre-
pagas satisfactory to the World Bank.
3.13        To increase broad support for the reforms and minimize opposition from
the employees and members of the Obras and INSSJP, program resources will be used to
disseminate information on the reform program and its expected benefits. These public



33
information campaigns and beneficiary consultations will take place through the media and
through seminars and workshops.
3.14         Restructuring of the National Obras Sociales. The Government is
creating a restructuring account (Fondo de Reconversion de las Obras Socialesy INSSJP,
or FROS) for the Obras Sociales. The FROS, which will be part of the Executing Unit,
will be used to enable the Obras Sociales to return to and maintain financial viability by
restructuring their debts2, laying off excess personnel, and, where appropriate, selling off
underutilized clinics, hospitals, and other facilities owned by the Obra Social. FROS
resources will also be extended to Obras for specific institutional development activities,
such as designing and implementing new organizational structures; developing new
procedures for contracting and payment of health care providers; and retraining staff in
management and audit of finances, personnel, health services, and health information, and
in public relations skills. Qualifying Obras will receive financial support for these
purposes in the form of subsidiary loans from the FROS. (The only grants that Obras will
receive vA ill be for the "up-front" cost of preparing restructuring plans.) The FROS, in
turn, will be constituted and replenished periodically by the Government.
3.15         Subsidiary loans will be disbursed by FROS to the Obras Sociales in two
or more installments, upon their compliance with conditionality established on the basis of
their submitted restructuring plans and contained in legal agreements (convenio
subsidiario de prestamo or convenio de execucion). These procedures will minimize the
risk to FROS and improve monitoring of implementation of the restructuring plans. The
subsidiary loans from FROS to the Obras Sociales will be provided in pesos, at an interest
rate that will cover the cost of borrowing from the World Bank, plus inflation and
administrative costs of the Executing Unit. All exchange risk will be borne by the
Government.
3.16         FROS operating rules are spelled out in Annex C. These include the
minimum criteria for determining an Obra Social's eligibility to participate in the
restructuring program; steps to be followed in preparing draft restructuring plans; criteria
for evaluating and approving draft restructuring plans submitted by the Obras Sociales;
and minimum standards and reporting requirements for Obras Sociales being monitored
during the process of their restructuring. Obras Sociales that do not qualify for
restructuring because, for example, they do not meet minimum financial performance
conditions, will be assisted to close or merge with other Obras Sociales. In the case of
closures, FROS will not assume the Obras' remaining liabilities. The procedures for
closures and mergers are described in Annex C. The regulatory strengthening component
financed from the technical assistance loan will assist in developing and implementing
these procedures. Annex D summarizes major regulatory reforms required for the
efficient operation of the Obras Sociales in a competitive health insurance market.
2  These debts, most of which are to health care providers, are not guaranteed by the Govermment.
However, before the Obras can renegotiate their contracts with providers - an essential step in the



34
3.17         In the first half of 1995, three large Obras submitted to the Government
proposals for financial assistance to restructure. These proposals provide valuable
information on the size and structure of the Obras' debt, their excess staffing, and
management improvement needs. As part of the final loan preparation, two more Obras
(a large one with more than half a million members and a smaller one with about 60,000
beneficiaries) agreed to participate in a simulation of the prequalification process for
access to the FROS. This simulation demonstrated that most Obras will have the
necessary information to prequalify (sign convenios de adhesion) and subsequently
prepare solid restructuring plans, and that they are strongly interested in obtaining help
from the FROS. Additional discussions with the senior managers of more than 20 other
Obras suggest that there is substantial demand for loans from the FROS.
3.18         Restructuring of INSSJP. The problems currently facing INSSJP -- top-
heavy organizational structure and excess staff, weak management systems and managers,
inadequate supervision of its contracts with care providers and suppliers of
pharmaccuticals and medical equipment -- are similar to those of the Obras Sociales. The
proposed approach to the reform of INSSJP also bears a strong resemblance to the Obras
reform process:
(a)   requiring INSSJP to compete with Obras &ociales for insured clients.
Decrees 292 and 492 created a register of Obras willing to accept the
elderly and stipulated a standard per capita transfer from INSS1P to these
Obras. This competitive pressure should force INSSJP to be more
responsive to consumer wishes and more efficient in its operations;
(b)   restructuring its debts. As of December 1995, the INSSJP had debts to
the Banco de la Nacion and ANSSAL amounting to about $200 million
and short-term liabilities to health care providers and other suppliers of
about $300 million. As part of the reform program, the Government will
repay the loans to Banco de la Nacion and ANS SAL, effectively forgiving
these INSSJP debts as part of the restructuring. In order to improve its
cash flow and to enable the Instituto to renegotiate its contracts with
providers and suppliers, the INSSJP will restructure this portion of its debt
by obtaining loans from the FROS that would in turn be used to settle
legitimate claims with private creditors;
(c)   rationalizing INSSJP staffing. During the current phase of the reform,
the Instituto plans to reduce its current personnel expenditures by at least
20 percent. The savings will accrue through the immediate laying off of
several hundred staff who have no specific job assignment; the outsourcing
of two large polyclinics and an ambulance service which currently employ
about 2,500 workers; and downsizing of the new INSSJP organizational
structure which is to be developed and implemented in the second half of
direction of competitive efficiency - they will need to settle at least a portion of their non-contested
debt with hospitals, clinics, private physician practices, and pharmacies.



35
1996. Workers will be laid off either through voluntary retirement or
involuntary separation, for which detailed procedures already exist and are
being used by the INS SJP.
(d)   introducing a new organizational structure, management team and
information systems. To do so, the Interventor and his team, in
collaboration with the project unit, have drawn up a detailed plan for
institutional development, which includes activities to change the INS SJP's
overall organization and staffing, budgeting and financial practices, other
management informnation systems, pharmaceuticals, and social
communications. Special emphasis will be placed on renegotiating
contracts for capitated care with providers in each of the regions and with
suppliers of pharnaceuticals and medical devices using competitive
bidding. Under the subcomponent, INSSJP will also design and implement
the outsourcing of two large polyclinics in the city of Rosario and the
ambulance service it operates in Buenos Aires.
3.19         INSSJP has already started to separate its health insurance function, which
accounts for about 80 percent of expenditures, from social assistance programs, with the
phasing out of its tourism and recreation program and the transfer to other Government
agencies of the financial responsibility for a cash subsidy to poor pensioners. This
separation will be further pursued and completed under the loan.
3.20         Financial analysis carried out during loan preparation suggests that without
the loan, INSSJP would incur continuing operating losses in 1996 and beyond of at least
USS100 million annually (see Annex I for more detailed financial projections). This
assumes that half of the expected reduction in employer contributions to INSSJP would be
covered by higher taxpayer compliance (lower evasion) and that INS S1P would not longer
have to use its revenues to pay for the subsidio a lapobreza and similar social programs.
If evasion does not improve, the INSSJP deficit would rise to US$250 million a year.
With the loan, however, INSSJP is projected to save US$250 million in 1996, US$400
million in 1997, and US$470 million annually after that. Even though the true efficiency
gains are about US$150 million a year less (because some non-medical services will be
transferred to other Government agencies and financed from other parts of the federal
budget), they would still amount to over US$300 million a year by 1998 and would enable
INSSJP to become financially stable and generate a small surplus which could be used to
rebuild prudent reserve levels.3
3.21         The reform of INSS1P is being treated as a separate and distinct
component from the Obras reform for several reasons: INSSJP's sheer size (four million
beneficiaries and US$3 billion a year in expenditures), the unique demographic and health
characteristics of its population (the elderly and disabled) which require a special set of
health services, and the fact that INSSJP is financed from a separate tax on wages and
3  Experience with health insurance from other countries suggests that these reserves should be equal to
at least one month's expected expenditures, i.e., about US$250 million for INSSJP.



36
pensions. Moreover, while the Obras are owned and managed independently from the
public sector, INSS1P is a parastatal institution over which the Government can exercise
more direct control.
3.22        As in the Obras Sociales component, program funds will be extended to
INSSJP as a subsidiary loan, for purposes of financing debt workouts, staff severance
packages, and for technical assistance, training and computer systems for INSSJP's
institutional strengthening. Since the debt workout and staff reduction activities will be
financed from counterpart funds tied to disbursements of the adjustment loan and INSSJP
institutional development will be financed directly through the technical assistance
investment loan, two distinct separate accounts will be used to make the required
subloans to the Instituto.
3.23        An important policy change associated with this component will be to give
PAMI beneficiaries the option of joining an Obra, to which INSSJP will transfer a
standard capitation payment. The size of this payment will be assessed and the procedures
for choosing an insurer will be defined as part of the regulatory development component,
to ensure that the Obras have adequate incentives to compete with PAMI. Since PAMI
will be subjected to only limited competition with the Obras for new members once they
reach retirement age, the Government will need to develop additional measures to ensure
that efficiency gains occur in INS SJP. These will include close and continuing oversight
of the INSSJP reform program by the Project Director and the project's oversight
committee, and the setting and monitoring of clear performance targets for the Interventor
and the senior managers, with actual results linked to pay and promotion decisions.
D. Cost and Financing Plan
3.24        Cost Total costs of the reform program are estimated at US$780 million,
including US$750 million for the two components to be financed through the sector
adjustment loan (Restructuring of the Obras Sociales and INSS1P) and US$30 million for
the activities to be financed from the accompanying technical assistance investment loan
(i.e., the entire Policy and Regulatory Development component plus the costs of Obras
restructuring plans, INS SJP institutional strengthening, and the Program Coordination
Unit).
3.25        The estimated cost of the Obras restructuring component (US$350 million)
assumes that program resources will be used to refinance about half of the total
accumulated debts of the Obras, currently estimated at US$450 million, to pay for
severance packages for excess staff at an average cost of US$ 15,000 each, and to finance
US$25 million for institutional development of the restructured Obras. The remaining
debts amounting to about US$225 million will not be financed under the reform program,
either because the debtor Obra does not qualify for assistance or because the debt is either
legally unenforceable or can be satisfactorily serviced by the Obra without special
program assistance.



37
3.26        The cost of the INSSJP restructuring component (US$400 million)
includes refinancing and/or forgiveness of US$200 million in debts to Banco de la Nacion
and ANSSAL and refinancing of about half of the Isituto's USS300 million in debts to
health care providers and suppliers of pharnaceuticals, medical devices, and equipment. It
also provides funding for planned layoffs of 4,000 to 5,000 staff at an average expected
cost of US$15,000 per person. Institutional development of the INSSJP will be financed
from the accompanying technical assistance investment loan.
3.27        Financing Plan. The proposed health insurance reform will be financed
with a World Bank adjustment loan package totaling USS350 million and a companion
technical assistance loan of US$25 million equivalent. Argentina will contribute a total of
US$400 million in local counterpart to help cover the costs of restructuring the Obras and
INSSJP, as counterpart to the adjustment loan. These resources will be derived from
Government forgiveness of INSSlP debts to Banco de la Nacion and ANSSAL (US$200
million), and US$200 million in ANSSAL resources, possibly composed of assets (past
accumulated reserves of about US$155 million) and a small part of future revenues
(US$45 million). Since ANSSAL's pooled insurance contributions have been about
US$400 million in recent years, it will be feasible for the Government to make a local
contribution of this magnitude.
3.28        To finance the restructuring of the Obras and INSSJP, the Government
will establish prior to first tranche release a separate program account with sub-accounts
(restructuring funds, Fondos de Reconversion) for Obras and INSSJP. Over the life of
the reform, the account is expected to disburse a total of USS750 million in loans --
US$350 million to Obras and US$400 million for INSSJP. The program account and
corresponding subaccounts will be replenished periodically by the Government, according
to the schedule of tranche releases from the Bank adjustment loan.
3.29        The Single Currency Loan will disburse in two tranches of US$150 million
and US$100 million, and the Pooled Currency Loan will disburse in a single (third)
tranche of US$100 million, once the Government fulfills the policy conditionalities spelled
out in paras. 3.32-3,35 (and in Annex A). At the time of tranche release, the Government
will make available for the reform program amounts equivalent to US$300 million,
US$225 million, and US$225 million, respectively to flow through the account, thus
assuring total resources of US$750 million for restructuring the social insurance system
over the lifetime of the loan (see Table 3.1). The full amounts deposited in the account and
subaccount will be available for use by the program executing unit for the agreed purposes
associated with the health insurance reform, without any restrictions.
Table 3.1 - Financing Plan (USSmillion equivalent)
Tranche                 First        Second      Third        Total
World Bank               150         100         100          350
Government Counterpart   150         125         125          400
Total                   300          225         225          750



38
3.30        The INSSJP has already started to lay off excess staff, using limited
available resources. Since September 1995, about 100 persons have accepted voluntary
retirement packages, at a total cost of about US$2 million. This staff downsizing is
expected to continue in the coming months. Provided that these lay-offs meet the criteria
for the use of resources from the Fondo de Reconversion for the INSSJP, the operating
rules provide that these activities be financed retroactively from the Fondo.
E. Loan Conditions
3.31        At negotiations, the Government furnished to the Bank a draft Letter of
Development Policy (Annex B), containing inter alia, its commitment to the main policy
reforms, including free choice of insurer, automatic distribution of the FSR, upgrading of
the register (padr6n) of beneficiaries, elaboration of a basic health benefits package, and
introduction of competition with pre-pagas and other private insurers. At negotiations, it
was also agreed that the following conditions, which have now been met, would be
conditions of presentation of the loan to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors:
(a)   presentation by the Government to the Bank of a satisfactory Letter of
Development Policy, signed by the Ministers of Health and Economy and
the Jefe de Gabinete de Ministros:
(b)   presentation of ministerial resolutions satisfactory to the Bank, modifying
the structure of the UEC to include a Coordinating Sub-Unit for Policies
and Regulation, and appointing the Coordinator of the Sub-Unit and the
lTEC's financial manager;
(c)   presentation of a ministerial resolution establishing the overarching
Program Committee for the reform;
(d)   evidence that the invitation for proposals for the diagnostic and institutional
design study for Obras regulation has been sent to the short-listed firms;
(e)   presentation to the Bank of the draft invitation (convocatoria) to the Obras
to prequalify for restructuring loans;
(f)   full information, satisfactory to the Bank, on the estimated cost of the
proposed PMO;
(g)   a statement showing INSSJP's cash flow deficit for 1995 using a
methodology satisfactory to the Bank, and a note from the Government
explaining the status and future disposition of INSSJP's "credits" and
"debits" with the National Social Security Administration.



39
3.32        As shown in the Matrix of Policy Conditionality (Annex A), release of all
three tranches (the two tranches of the Single Currency Loan and the single (third) tranche
of the Currency Pool Loan wili be subject to compliance with the following conditions:
(a)   maintenance of sound macroeconomic framework, consistent with the
policy objectives and prograzn and with the fiscal measures for 1996, 1997,
and 1998 as described in the Letter of Development Policy; and
(b)   satisfactory progress achieved in carrying out the health insurance reform
program, as described in the Letter of Development Policy.
3.33        In addition, tranche releases will be linked to achievement of monitorable
actions related to the reform of health insurance and the timely implementation of the
restructuring of the national Obras Sociales and INSSJP. Loan Effectiveneas (First
Tranche release of the Single Currency Loan) will require that the following actions are
carried out in a manner acceptable to the Bank:
(a)   the Government has furnished to the Bank a final version of the
Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)   the Government has provided to the Bank draft terms of reference and a
draft contract for improving the enrollment data base (padron) satisfactory
to the Bank;
(c)   a ministerial resolution has been issued to establish and set the operating
rules for a commission to propose regulations for prepaid private health
insurance.
3.34        The Second Tranche release will require substantially full commitment of
resources from the previous tranche resources and of Government counterpart funds, and
the furnishing of a report on the uses of program resources. In addition, release of the
Second Tranche will require that the following actions are carried out in a manner
acceptable to the Bank:
(a)   out of the resources made available to the UEC at first tranche release, the
Government has signed loan agreements (convenios de execucion) with
Obras for at least US$60 million and covering at least three million
beneficiaries and has disbursed at least US$30 million under these
agreements;
(b)   the Government has prequalified (signed convenios de adhesion) with
Obras covering at least an additional three million beneficiaries;
(c)   the Government has set up the new enrollment data base paatron);



40
(d)   the Government has issued and furnished to the Bank appropriate legal
instruments, satisfactory to the Bank, setting out the rules and timeframe
for consumers' free choice of Obra Sindical;
(e)    new regulation, satisfactory to the Bank, governing the operation of the
Fondo de Alta Complejidad for the Obras have been issued;
(f)    draft legislation has been introduced to the Congress to establish direct
competition among Obras de Personal de Direccion and private pre-paid
health plans, with consumers free to choose among them;
(g)   the Government has furnished to the Bank a resolution or, if necessary, has
introduced to the Congress draft legislation acceptable to the Bank, for
creating a new regulatory system for the private pre-paid health plans;
(h)   the Government has provided to the Bank a draft plan and appropriate
draft legal instruments for institutional strengthening of the Obras
regulatory body and for the application of regulatory and prudential
standards to regulate the conduct of the Obras;
(i)   INSSJP's monthly cash flow deficit (for the month prior to the month in
which the tranche is to be released) is at least 40 percent lower than the
corresponding average monthly deficit for December 1995, without an
increase in liabilities4; INSSJP has achieved at least an 10 percent reduction
in personnel expenditures compared with December 1995; has reduced by
at least 20 percent its liabilities to providers as compared to the level on
December 31, 1995; and has reduced by at least 50 percent its liabilities to
financial institutions, as compared with the level on August 31, 1995; and
has completed a study on improved management of pharmaceuticals; and
has completed the conceptual design and issued the letter of invitation to
short-listed firms for the detailed design and implementation of INSSJP
organizational changes.
3.35         The Third Tranche release (that is, the effectiveness and release of the
entire amount of the US$100 million Currency Pool Loan) will require substantially full
commitment of resources from the previous tranche resources and of Government
counterpart funds, and the furnishing of a report on the uses of program resources. In
addition, release of this tranche will require that the following actions are carried out in a
manner acceptable to the Bank:
The performance benchmarks for the operating deficit, personnel expenditures, and liabilities will all
be based on a complete 1995 financial statement for the INSSJP, signed by the Interventor and
certified by INSSJP's external auditor, which uses the accrual method for calculating the Instituto 's
expenditures and the cash method for calculating its revenues.



41
(a)   the legal instruments for free consmer choice of Obra Sindfcal are being
implemented in accordance with their terms, such that this free choice is a
real option and reality;
(b)   the Executing Unit and its Program Committee have approved
restructuring plans and made loans (signed convenios de execucion) for
Obras Sociales covering an additional three million beneficiaries, bringing
the total to at least six million beneficiaries;
(c)   provided that no new legislation is required to create the new regulatory
regime for the private pre-paid health plans, the Government has issued a
resolution establishing the new regulatory system;
(d)   automatic distribution from the Redistribution Fund has been modified to
permit allocation of resources on an individual household basis, using the
new enrollment data base and incorporating other risk factors such as
beneficiaries' age, gender, place of residence, and prior utilization of health
services;
(e)   the plan for institutional strengthening of the regulatory agency is being
implemented and the new regulatory and prudential standards for the
0bras system are being implemented satisfactorily; and
(f)   INSSJP has eliminated completely its monthly cash flow deficit (for the
month prior to the month of tranche release), without an increase in
liabilities; has achieved at least an 20 percent reduction in personnel
expenditures; has reduced by at least 50 percent its debts to health service
providers and medical suppliers from the level of December 1995, and has
eliminated completely its liabilities to financial institutions; and has
completed the detailed design of the reorganization and has substantially
implemented the organizational changes required.
It is expected that all the conditions of tranche release for the Third Tranche (release of
the Currency Pool Loan of USS100 million) will be met before December 31, 1997.
Therefore, as an exception to the normal 90-day period for effectiveness following loan
signing, the date of December 31, 1997 is specified as the deadline for effectiveness of the
Pooled Currency Loan.
3.36         Supervision of Restructuring FundL To ensure that resources from the
Restructuring Fund for INS S1P are being used in an efficient and timely manner, the
Government will send to the World Bank on a quarterly basis a report covering progress
on all aspects of INSSJP reform: debt workouts, personnel reduction, and the full range of
institutional development activities financed through the technical assistance loan. The
report will be accompanied by up-to-date financial statements, including a provisional
balance sheet and cash flow statement. The Bank will also conduct a prior review of all
terms of reference and written products (studies, plans, etc.) from the institutional



42
development component. Bank missions to supervise the conditions of tranche release for
the adjustment loan will monitor and confirn progress by INSSJP in implementing these
reforms.
3.37        The Bank will also use supervisions tied to tranche release to assess the
progress achieved by the Obras in carrying out their approved individual reorganization
plans. The Bank will conduct prior reviews of the first three reorganization plans to be
presented to the Board of the Executing Unit and of all plans thereafter involving
proposed loans to 0bras of more than US$10 million. In addition, the Executing Unit will
provide to the Bank on a quarterly basis a report sumrnmarizing in tabular form the
performance of all Obras receiving loans for restructuring on the basis of approved plans.
At negotiations, the Government submitted to the Bank draft monitoring formats for
PAMI and Obras restructuring, including detailed monitoring formats for individual Obras
and summary sheets to be sent to the Bank. These formats are included in the Operational
Manual.
F. Implementation Arrangements
3.38         The reform program was prepared by a specially formed unit initially
headed by two coordinators appointed by the Ministers of Economy and Health,
respectively. In September 1995, with Coordinating Minister issued an administrative
decision assigning full responsibility for the reform of the Obras Sociales and INSSJP to
the Ministry of Health. The administrative decision places the reform in the hands of the
Minister of Health and names the Secretary for Health Policy and Regulation as the
National Director of the proposed project.
3.39        A detailed description of the project organization structure, including
principal functions of each division and an organizational chart, is provided in Annex F.
The project will be implemented by an Coordination and Executing Unit (UEC) under the
National Director. The UEC will have four sub-units: three with direct responsibility for
implementation of the main components of the refonn (Policies and Regulation, Obras
Sociales, and INSSJP), headed by component Coordinators, and a sub-unit for Finance
and Administration, headed by a Manager. Internal control and the legal advisor will be
off-line subunits of the UEC. Two of the three component managers have already been
appointed. At negotiations, the Government agreed to modify the existing
administrative decision to include the third sub-unit for Policies and Regulation, and to
appoint the remaining Coordinator and the Manager of the administrative unit, with terms
of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank. These actions will be completed
before the loan is presented to the Bank's Board.
3.40        A Program Committee (Comite de Programa) is also being established to
review and approve the main activities in the restructuring process. At negotiations,
agreement was reached on the terms of reference of the Committee, which will include the
responsibilities to: (a) approve operating manuals and procedures; (b) approve technical
assistance for preparing restructuring plans for the Obras Sociales and INSSJP and for
insurance policy reforms; (c) review and approve subloans to the Obras and INSSJP; and



43
(d) monitor the implementation of policy reforms and restructurings. At negotiations, it
was also agreed that the Committee will have three members, including the National
Director from MSAS, who will chair the Committee and members appointed by the
Minister of Economy and by the Jefe de Gabinete del Presidente. These members will be
fully qualified technically and will have backgrounds and occupy positions which allow
them to render objective and independent judgments on the performance of the
Restructuring Fund and of the INS SJP and the Obras undergoing restructuring. Prior to
Board presentation, the Government will send to the Bank the signed resolution
establishing the Program Committee with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and
members appointed with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
3.41        The Government has prepared an Operational Manual which describes inter
alia: the organizational structure for the reform (the UEC and Program Committee); the
basic financial flows and financial reporting requirements, including the need for an audit
of the uses of funds made available by the Government for the reform program prior to the
second and third tranche releases; the monitoring and reporting arrangements, including
the draft monitoring formats for Obras undergoing restructuring and for INSSJP; and the
detailed procedures for Obras restructuring (invitation to prequalify; prequalification
procedures; selection of a consultant to help preparing a restructuring plan; evaluation of
plans and approval of subloans; release of subloans and monitoring and review of Obras
performance). At negotiations, a draft of the Operational Manual was presented and
discussed and further refinements were agreed. The presentation of a complete and fully
satisfactory Manual is a condition of loan effectiveness and first tranche release.
3.42        It is expected that the Single Currency adjustment loan (First and Second
Tranches) will become effective in May 1996 and the loan's estimated closing date will be
June 30, 1997. It is expected that the Currency Pool adjustment loan (Third Tranche) will
become effective and will close on December 31, 1997.
G. Disbursements and Auditing
3.43        Disbursements. The Government will open an account in the Banco de la
Nacion. Upon Bank notification of tranche release for each tranche, proceeds of the loans
will be deposited by the Bank in this account at the request of the Government. If after
deposit in this account, the proceeds of the loans are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to
finance items imnported from non-member countries, or goods or services in the standard
negative list), the Bank will require the Borrower to either (a) return that amount to the
account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in
which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan. Although
routine audit of the account will not be required, the Bank reserves the right to require it.
H. Benefits and Risks
3.44        Benefits. The beneficiaries of the reform will be the 18 million persons
currently covered by the national Obras Sociales and INSS1P. Through the introduction
of competition among Obras Sociales and improved regulation of the health insurance



44
system, millions of insured Argentines will obtain better health value for the financial
resources expended (through increased efficiency) and higher quality of service, measured
both in terms of health outcomes and customer satisfaction. Waste and misuse of funds
will be reduced. As a result of the implementation of a basic health benefits package for
insured persons and the redirection of FSR resources to Obras Sociales with lowest levels
of revenue per beneficiary, the loan will substantially improve the equity of the health
insurance system. On the basis of projected revenues, the redirection of the FSR would
benefit over three million persons currently enrolled in the Obras Sociales with average
monthly revenues currently below US$18 per person. These low-income workers include
over half a million farm laborers living below the poverty line.
3.45         The reform will have important macroeconomic benefits for Argentina. The
series of measures to be implemented by INSSJP will help it to cut its expenditures by
about US$450 million a year by 1998, of which US$300 million will be net annual fiscal
savings (some social programs will be transferred to other Government agencies and
financed from other parts of the budget). INSSJP will also eliminate its operating deficit,
which amounted to a total of more than US$600 million during 1994 and 1995, and will
generate a surplus that can be used to reduce its liabilities and build up prudent reserves.
As a result of the proposed reforms, the national Obras as a whole will obtain savings of at
least US$150 million a year (five percent of current annual revenues), thus eliminating
their combined operating deficits of recent years. This will substantially reduce the fiscal
risk to the Government of having to use other sources of general tax revenues or
borrowing for a financial bailout of the Obras Sociales and INSSJP5. Improved health
outcomes for a large segment of the country's work force covered by health insurance will
also result in lower absenteeism and higher labor productivity.
3.46         Risks. The greatest risk to the proposed operation is backsliding in
political commitment. While the current Government supports the reform of health
insurance, such support needs to remain strong, active, and visible to overcome the
resistance that will inevitably arise in the course of the reform process. Earlier attempts to
change the Obras Sociales system in 1991-1992 failed in part because of the poor
technical design of the reforms, but also because of inconsistent support from the
Government in the face of opposition from the trade unions and their allies in the
Congress. Despite these pressures, the Government is fully committed to the health
insurance reform. The Health Minister presented the insurance reform package to the
President and the entire federal cabinet in December 1995 and received unanimous
endorsement, including from the Minister of Economy. The Office of the President (the
Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros) is heavily involved in monitoring the reform and
resolving complex political issues. The Government is also successfully managing its
relationship with interest groups by meeting periodically with the trade union leadership,
involving INSSJP staff in designing its reorganization plan, and offering the prospect of
settling outstanding debts to providers in return for reopening a more competitive bidding
5 Even though the Government has no strict legal obligation to cover the Obras losses, there would be
strong political pressure for the Govermment to do so.



45
process for the award of capitated health service contracts. To reduce opposition to
change, the liberalization of the health insurance market will advance gradually in stages,
and will be accompanied by substantial financial and technical assistance to Obras Sociales
which agree to adhere to an approved reorganization plan. To reduce mitigate the
political risk of the operation, the accompanying technical assistance project will support a
major campaign to disseminate information on program actions and their benefits to Obras
and PAMI beneficiaries, Obras managers and employees, and the general public .
3.47        A second risk is the continued waste and misuse of funds by the Obras
Sociales. This risk would be mitigated by: (a) establishing stringent criteria for Obras
Sociales to pre-qualify for assistance from the loan facility for restructuring and to have
their reorganization plans approved for funding; (b) disbursing funds in tranches upon
compliance with restructuring conditionality; (c) setting and enforcing stronger financial
standards for the Obras Sociales system in general, during and after the period of
reorganization; and (d) requiring regular independent financial audits of all Obras
Sociales. Exposing the Obras Sociales to competition would also give them strong
incentives to reduce waste and raise intemal efficiency in order to survive and grow in
such a competitive market for health insurance.
3.48        A third risk is possible delays in the implementation of the legal and
regulatory framework and institutions for reform of health insurance. Existing institutions
are weak, and the time frame for instituting regulatory reforms is relatively short. This
risk is being addressed by developing a strong core group of local managers, lawyers, and
technical specialists at the loan design stage. The preparation of the new regulatory
framework is under way. A number of the main policy changes (i.e., the basic health
benefits package, the padr6n, and Obras regulations) are being developed in phases, with
increasing degrees of sophistication and complexity. The initial phase will be less difficult
to attain. To reinforce local capacity, the Bank is helping the Argentine tean to obtain
technical assistance from developing countries (e.g., Chile) and OECD countries with
relevant experience in health insurance reform.
i. RECOMMENDATION
3.49        I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and would be consistent with the approved guidelines for Bank
support. I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 2, 1996



ARGENTINA
HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM
POLICY MATRIX
Snlne Currency Loan                                                  Cuurency Pool LoAn
Before Board Presentaton                        First Tranche                               Second Tranche                                  Third Trndhe
1. Macroecononic
Stablty                                                              Maintenc of a sound macoocic frame-  Maftence of a sound macroeconomic frame-            Maintenance of a sound  _ imanonic frme-
work and perforsnance, emo_es with        wrk and perfornunoe, consistent with            woak and perfaine, consides wilh
tbe polcy objectives and progam and wil   the policy objectives and progms and with      th policy objectives and propg   and with
the fial mnes for 1996-94 as deaicd        h fical maire    for 1996-93 - demaabed       the fical n   eau for 1996-98 a d ibed
in the Lete of Developnmt Policy.    u         the latr of Dcvelopment Policy.           in the Letter of Developemnt Policy.
Satsafactory progra in cyinug outthe       S     y  progreq in carrying out the           Satisfactory pros. in crying out tbe
helth wiuranos refaom pron                he    urnce reform propsa                       h e nt nance reform propg
IL Hel   lnandsng
Reform
(a) Market Reform         Prea_ationto Bank ofa LIla of                                                                of lepl istrunents sting the rulcs and  Effective imphlmmation of hilinua for
Devep          Polcy oomain iommitns to,                                             ime      for imlanentation of commer       d         cbsnnd choice (a) asmige t baa
inter a, pro    zmer cdiie ofiner                                                   fiar     of choioe aong Obru Socaes              Socale Nacionalhe SiH icsl. nd (b)    g
Jnd *Gow oonpetitieo nmng icmuae                                                     Nacionale Sindicare; and itroduction of daft    tOe   Social. de Peanal de Diroion
iuitsfions public and private.                                                        egilato allowing cnni choice aMmig tbg         nd prpid health plan,
Obru Socialea de Personal do Direccion and
vde pro-paid health plank
Reistnai  of 0bla Sociale for opg lnce of reglaiom allowing bfciarim to
beficiwi of INSSJP.                                                                  chom beten INSSJP and Obru Socials.
Iheasc of a d    tceeto elirninte nltiple
covwep of b eficiari. in the natioal
Sociala
) R         etratsl Plo   Fu Ao   distribution frmn the FSR, m                                                lsunce of iuw regplatios for                   Atic distribution modified to pwst
o ..-    with a rmininn exPen(diture                                                   Fondo de Alta Complejidad.                    ocdion  household basis, ouesgmw data
per inaed worker. bs,                                                                                                                    and adjusing for aeth  rikc facto.
(e.g., aesex, ize of fusly, -d region)
c A) sE   _a  Dat                                                   Presetation of tem  of reference and daft  New enrolknest data bow is establishe           CAu   saisactoy inplaemati  of
Base                                                                  oon"c for inproving data base.                                                           the data bast                                    >
(d) BDdc Heth             Ction ofemiciion to formulate the                                                                                                                                                     X
BeaSt Pade                 sd    packge (PMO) and preention to
ie Bank of drt deac inmesaling the
PMO, with relaed cad naysa



Single Currency Loan                                                 Cuurency Pool Loan
Before Board Presentation                       First Tranche                               Second Tranche                                  Third Tranche
(e) Regulation of                                                   Issuance of resolution establishing a      Presentation of a draR resolution, or, if       If legislation is not required, a resolution to
Pre-Pad Private                                                     commission to develop regulatiom.          necessary, introduction to Congress of drsR     regulate pre-paid plans has been issued.
Health Plaws                                                                                                   legislation for regultion of pre-paid plasr.
f) RegWlation of          suance of igtr of invitation for                                                    Regulatory _engthening plan presented           Full implaneuition ofplan to strnghm
Obras Seials              regulaty refom study and dongm woek                                                    the Bank.                                        laosy agency.
Presentation of draf lgal imbumnts for         Full implementation ofthe new regulatory
latosy and pnueential stanlards to govemn      prudeita standards.
condut ofthe Obrs Socialer.
imL Reor     r_nzai       Pr_atxtionto the Bask of dft                                                         Approval of bam for Obra Sociales for at       Approval of loam for the reatnurng of
ofthe Obhm  BSode         ivtatim to Obmi topequdiy                                                            leat $60 nillion and oveaing at least 3         0    Sociles covering at kast 3 million
fo restudAing lo.                                                                      illion beneficiaries disbusements of at      aditil benficiaies (6 million total)
leat S30 million for Oh01 resucwurng and
plwificfi*on and ten ofreferene for
restructuring plm couving d lat 3 million
additi al benefidciari.
IV. Reoin.gflm of  nhe   P_         ofsahlow dtdeot fw INS8JP                                                  INSSJPa operating deficitis at least 40% low   INSSJP hs eliminated its operting dewciL
INS                       for 1995, using molhodoly dicyto                                                     ta its averap mnesibly dicit for 1995.
Deb         dei  ofIIWAl Wi l    Ig                                                  INSSJP has reduced peesol os by                INSSJP has ruced pesnel cos by 200_
mg-ft INSSJP; ph-tn of u             10%, provider ded  by 20% and ds to                                                           p        wid- ddf by 50% nd debls to finci
for (a) wrgniaos   uAm and (b) s nudAis                                                      imitittios by 50%.                     i         by 1 00%
ph nutical -m _at
Evidae of: (a) reitr_ Suing of heal Cthition of p                                                          h-aucwticala stuy and
ompn aid   e g ; ulic Osdtivc                                                rpln      ion  of ncm  idao
*       d (b) tr_r of social progrm
(tna   dead iea  _his) out of                                                       C    letion of ocbal deign of reo niz     and Doiled organizational desin comleted
lNSS P.                                                                            iance of Iloer of nvtation for detailed design   d subantially impkanast
and inplemteti_
V. PJe                     P         ef legal  _mt                  Preatsdion of operational marnals          Presntation of Rqept on uses of Prgam          Presentation of report on us  of Progam
uit                           eCoordinat  Unit and qpoiniat of  s aciosy to the BanLk                         finds,.                                         fund
a National Director ofthe Project tSee
cow&naors (INSSJP. Orm, and Policy and                                                                                                                                             >
Regulation), ad France and Administration
Manager, tisfactory to the BankX
Praetation of resolution esabliang                                                                                                                                                  >
PmVaa Conhillee nd ointion of
Fteit nbr , satifactayto the Baric



4>8                            Annex B
P,,eA   de  (-Kiz.>w/c:
ARGENTINA
HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM
POLICY LETTER
March 26, 1996.
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolftnsohn:
1.    This letter of Development Policy describes the economic reform program of the
Argentine Government as well as specific steps to deepen the reforms in the health sector.
To implement these reforms, the Govenmuent requests financial assistance from the World
Bank. The Bank's assistance is particularly needed at this juncture. a result of the
adverse impact that external developments, including the disruption of Mexico's economy,
have had on the economy We would like to take this opportunity to also present the
macroeconomic framework which complements the reform program.
I. Macroeconomic Framework
2.    Price stability and sustained growth remain the centerpieces of the Government's
economnic program. The Government has made important progress since 199 1. To
eliminate fiscal deficits that were fueling inflation, the Government initiated profound
structural reforms. As a result, monthly price increases dropped from over 30 percent at the
beginning of 1991 to below intemational rates in 1995, when annual inflation reached a
fifty year low of 1.6 percent.
3.    By laying the basis for price stability, the Govemrnent has charted an agenda for the
future with the following objectives:
*  the consolidation of stability through strict compliance with Law N  23928 of
March 27, 1991 (the Convertibility Law). the preservation of fiscal equilibrium
and the operation of a market economy with deregulated and unrestricted
competitive markets, and regulation by the state of non-competitive markets;
1~~~



49                                Annex B
  the strengthening of economic growth through increased levels of savings.
investment, productivity, privatization of public enterprises, privatc sector
development and exports, and an intensification of trade, financial and
technological integration of the Argentine economy into world markets; and
*  the achievement of higher levels of employment and a more equitable
distribution of income, both at a personal and regional basis. through
consolidation of economic stability and growth, substantially increased public
investment in human resource development and social services, and measures to
promote regional development.
4.    Sustained economic recovery and improvements in welfare will continue to be
achieved by undertaking lasting structural reforms in the public sector, improvement in
national savings, and policy reforms that would continue to promote private sector activity
through gains in productivity, lower domestic taxes, and factor market improvements. To
ensure that the private sector remains the leading expansionary force in the economy. the
Govemment is committed to maintain flexible and open markets free of domestic
regulations and major external trade barriers, and with a strong financial sector to improve
intermediation. The Government's program of market relorms covers the following areas:
*  Open market economy: The govemment has eliminated controls on prices,
wages, interest rates, and capital flows as well as a complex network of
subsidies and implicit taxes. The Government is committed to maintain such
policies. Additionally, to facilitate more rational allocation of resources in the
economy. and improve initernational competitiveness through the reduction of
production costs and improvement of incentives for productive investment, the
Government is committed to promote structural reforms by introducing and
supporting legislation for: (a) liberalizing labor markets; (b) reforming public
sector administration; (c) reforming the health insurance cooperatives; (d)
reforming provincial social security systems; and (e) encouraging the reformn of
provincial finances, including the reduction of inefficient taxes.
*  Trade Liberalization: The Government has made rapid strides towards
opening the economy, in terms of flows of trade, capital, and technology. The
import tariff structure has been simplified and the average tariff rate was
lowered to approximately 1 I percent. To the extent that additional tariffs were
reimposed for fiscal reasons, it is the government's intention to remove thcm as
soon as practicable. Export taxes have been nearly eliminated, and most
quantitative restrictions and other procedures that slowed the entry of trade,
capital and technology have been removed. The Govenmment will keep the
economy open to international competition and will keep Argentina's
4           J



50                                     Annex B
cl.e, ,2AIIniabc;j
antidurnping provisions in linc witih the respective GATT code. Moreover, the
MERCOSUR treaty came into full effect in January 1995. As specified in the
Treaty of Asunci6n, the Government eliminated most intra-MERCOSUR tariffs,
dropped all other intra-market trade barriers, and established a common extemal
tariff covering 85 percent of the positions in January 1995.
Financial Sector Reform: Financial sector reforms have been aimed at
increasing financial deepening and the efficiency of financial intermediationi.
Following interest rate liberalization in 1987 and the elimination of directed
credit by the Central Bank. the Government's strategy has been to increase
depositor and investor confidence. tJnder the Convertibility Law price
stabilization. liberalized interest rates, and tighter regulation and enforcement of
liquidity, capital adequacy and provisioning requirements were the chief reforms
that permitted financial deepening. Similarly, capital market reforms, including
the elimination of transaction taxes on securities trading and improvements in
the regulation of public offerings, encouraged the development of a major
emerging market. During 1995, the authorities took significant measures to
facilitate, through the establishment of two Fiduciary Funds, the restructuring oF
provincial and private banks, affected by the Mexican crisis. The Government is
committed to maintain liberalized interest rates and to refrain from directing
credit allocation of financial institutions, to further strengthen banking
supervision, and deepen further the capital markets.
5.    In the aftermath of the Mexico crisis, the Government's immediate aim is to sustain
past achievements through deepening reforms. The Government has already taken far-
reaching steps, that will consolidate stability and deflect the spillover effects from the crisis.
Foremost among these changes are a deepening of public and financial sector reforms.
These will strengthen confidence in sovereign debt, the financial sector, and the
sustainability of the Convertibility Law. The following sections discuss these reforms as
well as upcoming steps of the reform program.
II. The Reform Agenda
6.    The Government's program for 1996 will maintain and deepen structural reforms.
The Government will proceed with the implementation of the administrative reform
(Reform of the State). This reform should enhance the Executive's efficiency and
predictability by improving its organization, and performance. The reform will seek the
merger or elimination of public entities, and restructure or close inefficient programs and
redundant agencies.
fr  l 



51                                   Annex B
sek elf&ua?eaa
7.    Following on labor reforms related to SMEs, bankruptcy, and workmen's
compensation, the Govenmment is also conmnitted to proceed with the modification of
regulations on collective bargaining contracts and associated employment risks,. T'he
Government will improve the flexibility in the labor market by decentralizing and
rescinding the perpetuity of collective bargaining agreements, reducing direct and indirect
labor costs, and introducing contractual flexibility. The Government will also proceed with
ZI&}tuh,J,E5:Uq;,qSf.9W,ysiSltywSy the efficiency and equity of Argentina's
8.    Monetary policy will continue to be governed by the Convertibility Law, which
requires full backing of the monetary base with international reserves. According to the
law, U. S. dollar-denominated Government bonds held by the Central Bank can be used to
cover up to 20 percent (33 percent in emergency situations) of the monetary base. Credit
expansion by the Central Bank to the public sector and the fiuancial sector will be limited
in accordance with the Convertibility Law.
9.    During 1996, the Central Bank will rebuild excess international reserves, in order to
strengthen its ability to absorb extemnal shocks. The Central Bank will continue improving
its banking supervisory capability. and take measures to improve the stability of the
financial system, by proceeding vigorously with the restructuring of the private banking
system, and the restructuring/privatization of provincial banks., and by vigorously
enforcing prudential regulations.
10.   The Government is committed to the transfer of overdimensioned provincial
pension plans to the reformed national system. The overall program of provincial reforms
discussed below should reduce distortions in the tax system and result in a permanent
reduction in the size of the public sector that will improve the allocation of resources and
increase overall economic efficiency. These and other reforms, together with the
progressive extension of institutional changes to all governmental jurisdictions, will help to
further strengthen the profound institutional transformation of our country.
111. Public Sector Finances
The Federal Government
11.   The Government believes that the impct on Argentina of the 1995 external shock
has been contained, and the fundamentals of the oconomy remuin strong. Despite the 1995
recession and increase in unemployment, the reform process has been shown to be deeply
rooted; fiscal and monetary policies are sound, and the country's medium team prospects
have been strengthened. Exports have increased by 33 percent, and bank deposits and
intemational reserves have regained the lost ground since the Mexican crisis. Meanwhile,
14, i



52                                      Aninex B
the Government has intensified its reform efforts, further strengthening the Convertibility
Plan.
12.   Over the last five years, the Government has undertaken a major effort to improve
revenues through an improved overall economic performance, the implementation of a
much-broader and uniform VAT, and reduction of evasion. The Government is also
committed to further improve the efficiency of the tax administration by improving
substantia]ly audits and controls. The increased reliance on more efficient taxes will
continue to allow the Government to eliminate or reduce distortionary taxes, while
observing fiscal targets. Over the last twelve rnonths, the Government obtained
Congressional approval of laws broadening the coverage of the personal assets tax, limiting
expenditures to the social security system, restructuring the public sector, and taking
extraordinary fiscal measures to tighten public fiuances. Additionally, it implemented a
successful tax moratorium, generating a flow of $4 billion in revenues over the next 30-35
months.
13.   More specifically, during 1995, as the magnitude of the external shock deepened the
recession, the Government took incremental measures to deal with the resulting revenue
shortfall. The fiscal measures announced by the Government at the height of the crisis in
late February and March 1995, were approved by Congress in only two weeks, sending a
signal of decisiveness and political consensus. The measures included expenditure cuts,
including reductions in public salaries, a temporary increase of the VAT to 21 percent and a
broadening of the tax's base, temporay tariff increases, and a partial roll-back of certain
previous reductions in social security contributions. The subsequently approved Social
Security Solidarity Law, was intended to reestablish maximum limits for all beneficiaries,
eliminate the automatic adjustmnent of benefits, apply the provisions of the Convertibility
Law to the deternination of pensioners, and modify the associated legal proceedings. It
will also allow the establishment of a limit on pension outlays, which have been an
important cause of macroeconomic instability in recent years. The tax moratoriwn
announced in the last quarter of 1995. provided an added boost in revenues, bringing the
fiscal deficit, before privatizations, to 0.8 percent of GDP. Privatization receipts financed
approximately half that deficit, and capital inflows closed the remaining gap.
The Provincial Govemrnents
14.   Throughout the 1980s, deficits genrated by provincial governments were major
contributors to the chronic instability of the Argentine public sector. Over the last four
years, fiscal adjusutent, essential to the recovcry of the economy, has occurred mainly at
the federl level. The increase in provincial govenmuent expenditures has exceeded the rise
in revenues received from the Federal Treasury under the revenue sharing arrangements and
from their own resources, resulting in operational primary deficits in the provinces of about



53
-4L    .Annex    B
X/e (/4S,zziu4o-J
0.7 perceit of GDP in 1993 and 1994. That deficit rosc lo an estimated 0.9 percent of GDP
in 1995. At the sanme sime that provincial governmicnt.s have lIiggcd in making nect:ssary
fiscal adjustmicnts, thcir role within the economy has grown as the result of the
dccentralization of many federal functions, notably secondary education and public health.
Provinces are now the. major providcrn of core public services in healtli, education, security,
water and sanitation, electricity, and other infrastructure. However, most provinces are ill-
prepared to fulfill their increasingly important role, with negative implications for future
economic growth and meeting-theneeds of the poor.
15.   A major adjustment of provincial finances is expected for 1996, for sources of
provincial deficit financing arc now exhausted. Provincial deficits in 1993 and 1994 were
largely financed by the regularization of debts owed by thc National Administration to the
provinces, by their share of the proceeds from the sale of YPF, and in 1994 by issues of
Treasury bonds amounting to ARGS0.6 billion, secured by slhared revenucs. In 1995,
arrears to creditors, suppliers, and in certain provinces to wages and pensions, increased.
These sources are now exhausted.
16.   To assist in the adjustment of provincial finances, the Federal Government in the
early 1 990s launched a concerted effort to regularize the transfer of co-participated federal
revenucs; reduce unconditional discretionary transfers that reward poor fiscal performers;
improve local resource mobilization; modernize and downsize public administration,
improve the provision of social services in health and education; assume responsibility for,
and reform, provincial social security systems; privatize or close inefficient public
enterprises; eliminate Central Bank rediscounts; promote privatization of provincial banks;
and more generally improve the efficiency of allocation of resources in the provincial
public sector.
17.   To attain these objectives, the Federal Govennment's strategy for provincial reforms
is based on: (a) the Transformation Fund approved in April 1993; (b) the "Fiscal Pact"
signod on August 1993; and (c) the Provincial Development Trust Fund.
18.   The Transformation Fund. In April 1993, a Transformation Fund funded chiefly by
the World Bank was established to finance structural adjustment measures in the provinces,
funded, inter alia, by further privati6atjons at the federal level. To gain access to the
Transformation Fund, adjusting provinces must enter into an agreement with the Ministry
of Interior taking mcasures aiming at: (a) improvements in local resource mobilization; (b)
improvements in the efriciency of expenditures; and (c) reduction in the size of the
provincial bailking sector.
19.   Fiscal Pact. In August 1993, the Federal 3overnment proposed a "Fisca Pact",
which principally calls for reforms in provincial tax systems to reduce producoer wosts, and
1tn~~~)A



>~~~~O  &._ VV,>V                       54..: 
Annex B
al e,    &,d6o6
increase local tax revcnues, consistenl with the earlier proposed Transformation lund. In
return, thc Fcderal Government agreed to incrcasc minimum co-participated transfers,
postpone, and possibly forego, certain provincial debt obligations, and take over
rcsponsibility for funding provincial social security systenms.
20.   To reduce tax and other regulatory distortions and improve the fiscal situation and
performance of the provinces, the Federal Government, in the context of the 1993 'Fiscal
Pact", is seeking fronm provinces to:
*  substitute the tumnover tax by a consumption tax in order to reduce the cascading
nature of the provincial turnover tax;
*  eliminate the highly distortlonary provincial stamp tax;
* reduce property taxes to 1.2 percent for rural properties, 1.35 percent for semi-
rural properties, and 1.5 percent for urban properties. The maximum fiscal.
value of properties is fixed at 80 percent of their market value;
-  eliminate provincial labor, financial, and energy taxes;
- use co-participating transfer exceeding an agreed amount, to cancel debt
obligations, financc investments, or provincial adjustment programs that have
been approved by the national government;
* intensify tax collection and control, with provinces adopting a uniform system
of tax reporting and collection, as developed by the national tax directorate (the.
DGI); and
d deregulate professional activities, eliminate restrictions on wholesale and retail
sales, further deregulate the transport sector, and make compatible federal and
provincial regulations of the medicine and food markets.
21.   In thc context of the Fiscal Pact, the Federal Government has the obligation to
accept the transfer of provincial social security systems, and harMonize contributions and
pensions with the newly approved national social security system. In 1996, the Federal
Government is committed to take adequate fiscai measures to finance thc transfer of
provincial social security systems. Additionally, the Federal Governmeit will support the
privatization of public enterprises, and reduce the role of provincial banks through
privatization of ownership and control.
4_4



Annex B
vej-  ae    aiJrletC
AZ,E
-22.   To sustain low levels Of intlatioIi, aLnd the gLabil'ty of thfornlsytm   199e
federal authorities arecomittedto an improved consolidated fiscal performance or 199,
reducinig both the federal and provincial fiscal deficits obnsidrvedy ie199$ T99e cmletvels
fiscal deficit of the federal govenment for 1996 will be considerably below 1995 levels,
anid will not execed USS2.5 billion. The Federal Government is working with the
provinces on the formulation of a medium-term plan to put thcir finances on a sound
footing and provide a basis for the continued development of private sector activity. Mhe
process of adjustment aims to mach a sharp reduction of the deficit in 1996 through, inter
alia, a furdter cut in current expenditures and improvements in thle administration of the
provinecs' own tax base.
23.   With the acceleration of economic growth in 1997, the federal government is
expected to achieve budgetary balance, excluding financial burdecs arising from the
transfer of provincial pension systems to the federal level, and from the trust funds created
to facilitate the restructuring of the provincial and federal administrations, Fiscal
perfornance for 1998, as compared to the previous year, will exhibit continued
improvement towards fiscal equilibrium.
24.   To further strengthen fiscal accountability at the provincial level, the Federal
Governnicnt by June 1997 will seek to standardize budgetary reporting from all provinces,
including both current and capital expenditures, and their financing, according to the
principles contained in Law of Financial Management and Performance Control (w N0
24.156). Available provincial financial statements will be made public by the Federal
Goverr8ment, which wlll also present on an annual basis the financial condition of the
consolidated public sector.
lV. THE HEALTH SECTOR.
Oeneml Obeciveis of Health SecorPolicie
25.   ThC National Govbrnhment's basic objective in the health sector is to achieve a
system characterized by humanity, solidarity, effIciency, effectiveness and the highest
possibic quality, through the rational use of available resources. That objcctive was spelled
out in Presidential Decrec 1269/92, which set forth the following substantive policies for
the health sector:
To ensure fuIl exercise of the populationes right to health care in order to achieve the
goal of healtl for all as soon as possible.
A-1 .



56
Annex B
*  To imlprove the accessibility, efficiency and quality of medical attention.
*  1 o reduce avoidable morbidity and mortality risks.
*  lo rethink and redirect the role of the State in tle health sector.
Based on this mandate, the following sector strategies have been defined:
*  Strengthen the role of the State as system regulator and strategic planner for the
health sector.
*  Build a consciisus willi provincial juirisdictions (within the domain of COFESA,
thle Federal I lealttl Counicil) on common criteria for dealing with health care
policies.
*  Develop a strong model of medical attentioni, assigning priority to more cost-
effective health care services.
- Prepare a set of indicators to allow effective follow-up, monitoring and evaluation
of programs under way.
Gradually phase out funding for the supply side in order to fund the demand side.
* Develop sound resource allocation to ensure cost containment without dimlinishing
accessibility by thie population or quality of service, thus gaining efficiency and
etffectiveness.
8r2ecific Sector Policies AdoUnded And proga ger Way
26.   In line with the National Govcrnment's objectives and strategies outlined above, the
following programs and actions, inter alia, are being implemnented at the present time.
Tlhey are at various stages of developmenit and have achieved different levels of coverage
and impact.
*  Adapt the Health Care Model. A new model of care is being designed that will
give priority to primary heaitlt care, recognizing the family physician as the first
line of intervention for those needing hcalth care services.
*  Guarantee Service Quality. Resolution 432/92, issued by Argentina's Ministry
of I health and Social Action, created the National Program of Quahly Assurance
for Medical Attention in order to: (a) standardize and develop activities relating to
the certification and rating of health care establishments; (b) monitor the
professional perforanwice of health care personnel; (c) prepare operating standards
~~X/--z-- v



5 7                             'Annex B
andc manuals of procedurcs for health care scrvices and standards goveming
medical attentio n; (di) provide advisory assistance and technical cooperation in
connlection with the above activities; (c) cany out health oversight and control
activities; and (f) evaluate the quality of mnedical attention and of health care
services.
* Give lPriority to Motlier and Infant Care. In connection witi the preceding
point, a far-rcaching program targeted to mothers and infants was carried out.
Tyinig in the National Maternal and Child Health Program with the Mother-Infant
Health and Nutrition Program (PROMIN, financed by the IBRD) has resulted in
an innovative package of coverage with a multidisciplinary, participatory approach
that is generatitng broad-based involvement in most provincial jurisdictions. Some
of the objectives sought are as follows: lowering infant morbidity and mortality
rates, strengtlhening the primary care system, reducing spontaneous demand at
health carc centers throujgh planned containment of the population's needs,
stimulating psychosocial development in children, redefining nutrltional strategies
associated with the health of the general population, monitoring and establishing
inidicators to monitor thc population covered by the program, increasing the
number of checkups during pregnalcy, and significantly lowering adverse
outcomes such as low birthweigiht.
*  Strengthen the Epiderniological Surveillance System.
*  Expand lminaunizatiomi Programs. This has enabled progress to be made on
campaigns to eradicate iimeasles and neonatal tetanus. Immunizing health care
personnel againsi Hepatitis B and providing the elderly with flu vaccinations is
broadening coverage of those at risk. T'he process of certifying the eradication of
poliomyelitis has becn completed.
-  Give Priority to Combating AIDS. The impact of AIDS on vast segments of the
population is growing and is demanding increasing amounts of resources. This
has led to:
(a)   strengthening the national program against AIDS, which provides for,
intcr alia, medicine for the ill and needy, reagentvs for diagnostics at blood
banks, and education and infonimation activities; and
(b)   requesting credit and technical assistance from the IBRD in order to
carry further, expand and extend activities under the national program.
* Improve Regkulation and Control of Medicine, Food and Technology. This is
a fundamental objective to ensure the healtlh of our people, and will continue to be



5 8                             Annex B
the responsibility of the National Medicine, Food and Technology Administration
(ANMAT).
Incorporate lthe National Drug Surveillaiiec System within the World Health
Organization's Intemational Drug Monitoring Center.
  Modernize the Public Hospital System. The implementation of a vast program
to restore and strengthen public hospitals has led to:
(a)   Sanctioning by the Executive Branch of Decree 578/93 on Self.
Managed Public I-lospitals, with a view to effectively extending coverage of
the target population and perfonning the functions of assistance, promotion,
teaching, and research.
(b)   Creation of the National Register of Self-Managed Public iospitals.
(c)   Agreement with the [BRD on the PRESSAL program to fund the
conversion of infrastructure and equipment in the hospitals covered by the
program, as well as strengthening their management capacity.
(d)   Initiation, with PRESSAL financing, of a diagnostic study of a series
of provincial health insurance plans -Obras Sociales Provinciales- (these cover
provincial public employees and are not included within the National liealth
Insurance System, pursuant to Laws 23.660 and 23.661). This will lead to
setting up a future program to restructure the provincial health insurance plans
in line with the process begun at the national level.
Irippot Of PoiLcigs And Prog=s To or%1demize The Hea1th Sector
27.   A collective and concerted erfort on the part of national, provincial and municipal
goverrunents has improved health indicators in recent years. There are still regions that
have yet to attain the desired targets, and the gaps and imbalanices are to be addressed
through the programs now in progress, which have IBRD and other support.
Examples of these improvements are as follows:
* The general mortality rate has been lowered from 8.6 per 1,000 inhabitants in
1980 to 7.5 per 1,000 in 1994.
*  The infant mortality rate has dropped from 33.2 per 1,000 live births in 1980 to 22
per 1,000 live births in 1994.
tyS,ff                                                                    X~~~~~~~~~'



59                              Annex B
#tZ   4.    t-    t4  I-*-  s- v*. L'*..
cle  C4nf4t?oJO.
*  Infant mortality by matemal causes: 7 per 10,000 live births in 1980, has dropped
to 3.9 per 10,000 live birthis in 1994.
*  Sabin polio vaccination coverage, 78 percent of the population under one year of
age in 1983, rose to 84.6 percent in 1994.
*  DTP vaccination coverage, which was 61.3 percent of the population under one
year of age in 1983, increased to 82.3 percent in 1994.
*  BCG vaccination coverage was 69.6 percent of the population under one year of
age in 1983, and rose to 107.3 percent in 1994.
*  Measles vaccination coverage, 61.2 percent of the population under one year of
age in 1980, rose to 95.6 percent in 1994.
V. THE PROGRAM TO IEFORM SOCIAL HEALTIH INSURANCE (OJ3RAS
SOCIALES -LEY N 23.660 y 23.661-) AND TIJE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF
SOCIAL SERVICES FOR RETIRED AND PENSIONERS (INSSJ l')
Princinal Obiectives of the Reform
28.   T'he Instituto Nacional de Seguridad Social para Jubilados y Pensionados (INSSJP)
and the national social health insurance funds (Obras Sociales) play a key role within
Argentina's health care system. It is essential that they function smoothly and remain viable
technically and financially in order to ensure the sustainability of the social security
subsector. This will in turn ensure the sustainability of medical care for all the beneficiaries
of the INSSJP and Obras, under a system based on solidarity, equity, universality and
accessibility to health coverage throughouL the country, delivered by institutions with a
long-standing tradition of providing universal health care.
29.   Based on the above-described policies, the need for change in the sector, and the
complementary activities being conducted under the public sector reform process, the
Natioial Government has decided to launch a Restructuring Program for the Obras Sociales
and INSSJP. To this end, IBRD financing has been requested in order to achieve structural
reforms in the health sector.
30.   The general objective of the Restructuring Program for the Obras and INSSJP is to
support u process of reforis in the management of the institutions themselves, and in the
regulatory tramework govemning them, in order to ensure their future financial and technical
viability in the context of inmproving efficiency in the use of resources in each institution
1tJ;Xt7 ~~44.f



60                                 Annex B
ae de   -7 Xnele
and in the health sector overall. This will be done through coordinated programs and
activities taking place simultaneously in the Obras and INSSJP, and by giving beneficiaries
freedom of choice within the Obras and INSSJP system.
31.   The reform program will complete the process of restructuring the Obras Sociales
}nd develop a system of information on beneficiaries. This will lay the groundwork to
make it feasible in practice for beneficiaries to exercise effective choice of Obra, thereby
complying with prevailing regulations.
32.   The major specific objectives of the program are as follows:
To improve the econornic and financial condition of the Obras Sociales and the
INSSJP through financial restructtring, organizational design, definition of
mrission statements and functions, taining management, refinements in
administrative procedures, strengthening capacity for monitoring and control of
the quality of service provided to beneficiaries, and reform of the regulatory
framnework governing them, in a context of adequate service quality and adequate
regulation to protect beneficiaries.
To position the Obras and INSSJP as efficient health finding agencies and, in
some cases, as direct health care providers.
,rief Descnrtion of Progra= Activities.
33.   The following activities are planned under the Restructuing Programn for Obras
Sociales and the INSSJP:
* Financial restructuring of the Obras Socliales and the INSSJP to cnable them
to pay off eligible debt and devise a new contracting strategy using new models of
care, ensure their sustainability and viability, and aUow them to break even
financially and to repay their financial obligations.
*  Rationalization of stafirng to attain appropriate staffprofiles and skills mix for
achieving the institutions, objectives, with the necessary quantity and quality of
staff to fulfill their mandates, under a smooth reorganization process involving as
little disruption as possible.
* Technical assistance to develop policies and regulations conducive to monitoring
the process, formulating restrucuring plans for Obras Sociales, designing and
developing management and opeating information systems both in the Obras and
(jW'/'AA



WC,,   #zzaiaPav                            61.                 -Annex B
INSSJP' being rcsiructured and in the agenicies of the national public
administration involved, and training for human resources.
34.   In this way, the fouindation will be laid to improve coverage, quality and
accessibility of health cacre services for a bencficiary group representing over 50 permcnt of
the total population of the country.
35.   The impact of carrying out the Restructuring Program on Argentina's health sector
is expected to include the development of mechanisms to ensure effective solidarity and
equity within the system, improvements in the quality of medical attention models, and the
establishment of guidclines for contracting and restructuring sector operations. This will
boost the sector's competitiveness by cnsuring transparent processes.
36.   The Govemment is conscious of the need to regulate and monitor the entire health
care system, which points to the central importance of carrying out analyses for the efficient
regulation of the system of private prepaid medicine.
Actions ArMd Completed to liplement the Refonn Prorn.
37.   As part of this process of transformation, the National Governmnent has issued a
series of legal instruments making changes in the Obras Sociales and INSSIP subsector,
including the following:
Decrees 9/93 and 576/93, which establish: (i) freedom of choice of Obra by
beneficiaries within the Obras Sociales system; (ii) the ability of the Obras to
contract directly with individual providers and to require accreditation and rating
criteria in seeking better quality providers; and (iii) the obligation of the -health
national systenm agencies to pay for services rendered to their beneficiaries by
public hospitals.
*  Decrees 292 aid 492, issued in 1995, which imply significant progress on the
following points:
(a)   To lay a foundation for greater equity and solidarity within the system,
the following has boen enacted: (i) automatic distribution of resources from
the Solidarity Redistribution Fund; (ii) elimination of multiple -coverage and
unification of contributions to Obras Sociales; (iii) free choice :fbr beneficiarie.
of the INSSlP beLween Obras and INSSJP; (iv) funding mechanisms to ensure
for health insuruice coverage for part-time workers; and (v) restructuring and
dissolution of the "social services Institutes".
tjO*:
.,~~~~~~~~~. ..,,...,



;  ,- -               62                                  Annex B
(b)   To enisure-the efficient use of systen resources, the following steps
havc been provided for: (i) transfer of social assistance functions firom the
INSSJP to other parts of thle Govenmment; and (ii) traisfer the health coverage
of non-contributing pcnsioners fiom the INSSJP.
(c)    To guarantee beneficiaries a transparent, competitive system of the
highest possibic quality, the following steps have been taken: (i) creation of
the Maidatory Medical Program (Programa Medico Obligatorio, PMO) that
would be applied to all beneficiaries of the National Social Security System;
(ii) creation of a technical commission for the fonnulation and updating of the
PMO, with participation by the National Social Security Administration and
the General Confederation of Labor; and (iii) creation of a mechanism
whereby Obras Sociales will be nierged if they are not in a position to deliver
the PMO efficiently to their beneficiaries.
* Administrative Decision 26/95 of the Chief of the Cabinet of Ministers
(Jcfatura del Gabinete de Ministros) sets forth responsibility for the direction
and execution of the Restructuring Program for Obras Sociales and the INSSJP
within the Ministry of lHealth and Social Action, under the coordinatiqn of a
national director. That position is occupied by the Sccretary of Health Policy
and Sanitary Regulation of the Ministry.
Key Gover-p-nment Actionis anid Commiiitments to Sunrt the Reform Program
38.   The Governmnenit has shown and will show its commitment to the Obras and INSSJP
Restructuring Program through the following sclionas:
* By Administrative Decision 26 of Septemiber 26, 1995, the Chief of the Cabinet of
Ministers has created the executing unit for the Restructuring Program for Obras
Sociales and the INSSJP within the Ministry of Health and Social Action. By
Administrative Decision 76 of March 20. 1996, the executing unit was modified to
include a third coordinator for Development of Policies and Regulation. The
program execution unit will be maintained anid will be adequately staffed
throughout the refonn period.
*  By Resolution 13 of October 12, 1995 and 76 of March 26, 1996, the Secretary of
Health Policy and Sanitary Regulation has appointed coordinators for the Obras
Restructuring Subprogram, the INSSJP Restructuring Subprogram, and for the
Policy and Regulation Development Support Subcomponent. The adminisrative
manager of the ovcrall program execution unit is also appointed by the resolution.
bt>PrM  s  :K|SV :Qr?t8;t1-|rT?t  s orTrtZ-l4/1 l  r"f!!  , g P! :!S7 F-   >/zlaA';'FMblt51f6t 1    TtH



63                                  Annex B
*  By Resolitioni 160 of March 14, 1996, the Minister of liealth and Social Action
has created the Committee for the Restructuiing Program for Obras Sociales and
the INSSJP with the authority to analyze, issue rulings, and decide in each case to
approve or decline requests submittcd to the executinig unit for: (i) financial
support for the formnulation of restructuring plans for Obras Sociales; (ii) approval
of restructuring plans for Obras Sociales and the INSSJP; (iii) approval of
subloans to Obras Sociales whose restbucturing plans have been approved, and to
thiC INSSJP, and (iv) approval of compliance with conditionalities for the release
of disbursements under subloans; to Obras Sociales and the INSSJP. The Program
Comnmittee will have three members: one representing the Chief of the Cabinet of
Ministers, one representing the Ministry of Economy and Public Works and
Services, and one representing the Ministry of Healtl aind Social Action. To
suplport the operational work of the Committee, the Subprogram for Obras
Restructuring will contract extemally for the financial analysis of the eligibility of
the Obras and the feasibility of their restructuring plans.
In addition, over the coming months, the Government will continue to support the
Restructuring of tie Obras and INSSJP through a series of actions:
*  At the time that the Loans providing IBRD financial support to the Obras and
INSSJP reform are signed, the Minister of Health and Social Action will issue a
resolution approving and putting into effect the PMO drawn up by the technical
commission set up to that end.
*  Prior to the effectiveness of the World Bank loans, the Minister of Hcalti and
Social Action will issue a Resolution approving the Operations Manual, which
will have been submitted to the World Bank for its consideration in coinection
with the Restructuring Program for Obras Sociales and the INSSJP.
*  Prior to the effectiveness of tbe World Bank loans, the Minister of Health and
Social Action will issue a Resolution creating, under the National Program of
Quality Assurance for Medical Attention, an interdisciplinary commission to study
and propose regulations for the system of private prepaid medicine.
39.   Although the regulatQry framework currently prevailing provides some legal basis
for starting to implement the Governrnent's health policies within the subsector of Obras
Sociales and the INSSJP, the restructuring involvcs a process that will unfold through the
design and executdon of actions in the coming years under the proposed Restructuring
Program for Obras Sociales and the INSSJP.
40.   To enforce the decrees now in effect and allow freedom of choice by the
beneficirics affTaiated with Obras Sociales Sindicales, the Government has decided to
Q x  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
1:!  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
s_rlszter:.9lvirtsr8rTptltrw r.sir:4vi Voreeg nrs7ertlfnrvnrlw<7< lmr'''.t'7 t'-' ' "t ' s ' ,1 > ^. ttJ 'I {{7{ , S 4 ^  'l! >^ 7' *--S- 



64                                A-~nnex B
establish thc necessary regulatory mechanisms no later than November 1996, through the
appropriate legal instrumciits. Those instruments will also: (i) stipulate that effective
freedom of selection of Obra by the beneficiaries will cnter into effect no later than May
1997; (ii) establish a detailed regulatory framework for efficient functioning of the
mechanism whereby pensioners can choose between the INSSIP and the Obras Sociales;
(iii) establish the necessary legal instruments to allow freedom of choice for those affiliated
to the Obras Sociales for Managerial Employees to select any of them, and elabormte the bill
project to allow freedom of choice of the said members to select between one of those
Obras or private prepaid health plan.
R      Besult Antic                                                        :,W
41.   The Government expects that the Restructuring Program for Obras Sociales and the
INSSJP will lead to the following results:
* Obras Sociales
(a)   A process whereby Obras Sociales will be merged to reduce their number,
raising efficiency and accessibility of service and preserving quality standards and
rational costs.
(b)   Effective freedom of choice of Obras Sociales for beineficiaries of the Obras
Sociales Sindicales.
(c)   Introduction of tie PMO and its application to all Obras Soclales in the
process of restructuring at a first stge, subsequently to be extcned to all Obmas
Sociales under the National Health Insurance System, thereby ensuring full
compliance with Decrees 292/95 and 492/95.
(d)   Application of a certification, accreditation, and rating system that is entirely
in accordance with the National Program of Quality Assurance for Modical Attention.
(e)   Establishment of a model strengthening primary health care having, as its
principal thrust, entry into the family medicine system.
(I)    Training of human resources to achieve efficient management of the Obrms
Sociales.
*  Instituto Nacional de Seivicios Sociales para Jublados y Pensionados (INSSJP)
(a)    Freedom of choice for beneficiaries to either renain in an Obra or in the
INSSJX 



65                                   Annex B
aee yapmet-
(b)    Otitskourcing of services. reaining the core functions of improvinig healthi care
scrvices, withi a view to cost containmcnt.
(c)    Design of alterlativc care models to optimize the usc of resources invcsted
thlrough the usc of capitation graits and othier payment miiethods.
(d)    Strengtheniing of the INSSJP's medical audit capacity.
(e)    Strategy to improve the mix of services retained, with a focus on better cost-
effectivcness and better targeting.
(f)    Financial restructuring to clear operating debts and allow the INSSJ1' to break
even financially.
(g)    Redefinition of the role of provincial offices of INSSJP and strengthening
them in their interrelations with the central level.
(h)    A system of information to ensure the availability of updated data oll tends in
the population's consumer habits, in order to design health strategies and monitor their
implementation.
(i)    Optimization of the Drug Prescription Program.
Support for Policy and Regulation Development.
(a)    Fine-tuning of the Solidarity Redistribution Fund, which is to be based on
moniitoring and inclusion (to the extent technically possible) of health risk fac(ors
(such as age, sex and others) and relevanit socioeconomic criteria (such as affiliate
income or family income, rural location, etc.).
(b)    Developmenit of an efficient enrollment data base of beneficiaries, their
characteristics, and funding mode.
(c)    Redefinition and fine-tuning of mission statements, structures, and functions
for the Ministry of Hlealth and Social Action, the Health Policy wnd Sanitary
Regulation Secretariat, the Health Policy Undersecretariat, the National Directorate of
Obras Sociales, and the National Healtih lnsuraace Administration, to enable them to
efficiently perform their role as planning and regulatory agencies and apply
substantive health policics.
(d)    An efficient regulatory framework to support the efficient functioning of the
Obras Sociales, the INSSJP, and the private prepaid health plans, as well as protecting
beneficiaries with respect to their contractual relations and guaranteeing service



66                         .      'Annex B
def    8  <t%67'UZe1
quality, while introducing incentives for cost containment within the systemi and
improving lechnical efficiency and resource allocation within the entire healtlh care
system in Argentina.
V. World Bank Support
42.   The above presentation demonstrates the deptlh of the Govemment's overall public
sector and health sector reform programs. The Government believes that financial
assistance froni the Woi-ld Bank is essential to implement health sector structural reforms.
Implementation of tilt: pzopcscd measuies would incrcase efficiency and equity in the
health sector and improve the fiscal balance of the federal gove ment, thereby reduci
threats to macroeconomic stability.
Sincerely yours
7,
Minister of Health          ~    ~minlt of , ECo    aly
Eduar4o 1auzh
qi6f of the Cabinet
o.- Of Ministers
I            41'2'?~~i 



67                              Annex C
ARGENTINA
HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM
Fondo De Reconversion De Obras Sociales
Plan Of Operations
General
1.    The Fondo de Reconversi6n de Obras Sociales (FROS) is a key element in the plan
to improve efficiency of the Argentine health insurance market. The main objective of the
FROS is to help the Obras Sociales (OS) in their efforts to: (i) provide minimum and
adequate health care plans; (ii) comply with minimum financial and health regulation
requirements; and (iii) operate in a competitive environment with free OS selection by the
beneficiary. Through the process described below, the FROS will finance the design and
implementation of restructuring plans for qualified OS. These restructuring plans will
allow the OS to achieve and maintain medium-term financial viability through the
reduction of accumulated indebtedness, staff downsizing and operating strengthening.
2.    The FROS will be one of four operating arms of the Loan Executing Unit (see
Annex F)'. As part of the Executing Unit, the FROS will have: (a) specific and clear
operating mechanisms and eligibility criteria; (b) an interdisciplinary board, integrated by
experienced and independent individuals representing different sectors of the Government;
(c) the Secretary of Health, acting as the head of the Executing Unit; and a specific FROS
coordinating officer or manager; (d) clear and specific rules regarding activities to be
financed; (e) an operating unit in charge of monitoring of both the drafting and
implementation of restructuring plans; (f) strict internal control systems and auditing
requirements; and (g) a finite life span.
Inter-Government Cooperation and Governance
3.    Project supervision and overall guidance will be provided by the Minister of
Health, designed by the Government as the Minister in charge of leading the reform. The
Minister of Health will review: (a) health insurance refonn policy matters brought to his
attention; (b) all draft legislation to be recommended to the President of Argentina for
approval by decree; (c) all draft legislation to be recommended to the President for
submittal to Congress; and (d) information regarding implementation of reforms and
activities of the Executing Unit.
4.    The highest authority of the Executing Unit and, therefore, of the FROS will be an
interdisciplinary board or Committee. The Comnmittee will have a total of five members,
who will include the representatives of different sectors of Government and the Secretary
of Health as the head of the Executing Unit. Functions of the Committee include, inter
alia: (a) approval of bylaws for the Executing Unit, (ii) approval of operating manuals for
the FROS and each of the other operating arms of the Executing Unit; (c) approval of all
technical assistance associated with the restructuring of the OS and the INSS1P and
project assisted policy reforms; (d) approval of conditionality associated with the
The other three operating arms are: (i) the Fondo de Reconversion de PAWI (FRPAMI) which will be
responsible for the design and implementation of the INSSJP's restucturing plan, (ii) the Fondo de
Programaci6n y Politicas (FPP), which will be in charge of the drafting of all regulation and of
technical assistance to Government institutions, and (iii) a project administrative unit



68                             Annex C
restructuring plans for the OS; and (e) periodic review of progress and implementation of
project assisted policy reforms and restructurings.
5.    Overall management and coordination of the Executing Unit will be performed by
the Secretary of Health, whom will oversee the activities of the FROS and the other
operating arms. Specific coordination and management of the activities of the FROS will
be performed by the FROS coordinator or manager.
Funding and Application of Proceeds
6.    The FROS will provide funding to the eligible OS through three different facilities:
*  Restructuring Plans Technical Assistance Facility: This facility will provide grants to
eligible OS for the preparation of restructuring plans with the assistance of qualified
professionals. The restructuring plans will include financial external and special audits
of the OS, asset valuation, independent business valuation of self managed medical
facilities, staff assessments and downsizing needs, evaluation of management
information systems, evaluation of internal control systems, evaluation of beneficiary
composition in terms of revenues and health risks and quality of health services
provided. On the basis of the performed evaluation, a restructuring plan would be
proposed that would take into consideration the: (a) opening of the market to
competition; and (b) need to comply with minimum financial regulation and
provisioning of a basic health package. The facility will provide grants for the drafting
of the restructuring plans with funding derived from the mvestment portion of the
Bank's loan.
e  Restructurinsz Plan Technical Assistance Implementation Facility: This facility will
provide loans to eligible OS once the board has approved the restructuring plan. The
loans will used to finance different activities of the restructuring plan including:
training of personnel, development of management information systems, development
of operating manuals, development of adequate internal control systems, purchase of
computer systems, development and execution of medical business spin-offs and asset
sales, and others.
-  Loan Refinancing and Staff Downsizing Facility: This facility will provide funding for
the refinancing of liabilities and payment of benefits to staff laid off under the strategy
established by the restructuring plan. Liability refinancing will be limited to the
amount necessary to make the OS viable and able to comply with the minimum
regulation.
7.    Loan amounts will be sufficient to cover the implementation of the restructuring
plans. A maximum loan size per OS will be set based on the basis of criteria that is easy to
quantify and monitor. Loans wili be provided in pesos at a rate sufficient to cover: (a) the
cost of funding from the Bank; (b) the inflation rate; and (c) all FROS administration
costs. The exchange rate risk will be borne by the government. Loan terms will be
determined on a case by case basis as recommended by the restructuring plans but will not
extend beyond the maturity of the Bank's financing to the Government in order to avoid
increased fiscal efforts by the latter.



69                               Annex C
Termination
8.    The FROS is a temporary mechanism which will operate as long as the
restructuring plans are under execution. A life span between three and five years is
estimated as adequate.
Extemal Audits
9.    All activities of the Executing Unit, and therefore, FROS' activities and financing
will be subject to an external audit by qualified external auditors acceptable to IBRD.
External audits will take place once a year as of December 31 and upon completion of the
project.
Operating Mechanisms
Eligibility criteria
10.   The OS will have to meet minimum pre-qualifying eligibility criteria to access the
grant facility, as weli as minimum implementation eligibility criteria to have access to the
loan facilities. Minimum pre-qualiifing criteria include the certification and document
presentation of: (a) being a legally established OS in adequate standing with ANSSAL; (b)
compliance with current health provisioning rules and regulations; (c) financial statements
for the last two years and for the last four quarters; (d) revenue and expenditure budget
for the Last 12 months; (e) structure of liabilities, specifying the names of creditors; (f) all
binding contracts with health service providers; (g) all legal documentation regarding the
proprietorship of fixed assets; (h) personnel contracts and positions; and (viii) at least
10,000 beneficiaries.2 Presentation of the required information will automatically qualify
an OS for the grant facility for the preparation of a restructuring plan. Smaller OS (with
fewer than 10,000 beneficiaries) may decide to be studied as a potential merged and viable
group. In this case, after presentation of all the required information for all the OS in the
group, the restructuring plan would analyze their potential viability as a merged OS.
11.   Eligibility criteria for access to the loan implementation facilities will include, inter
alia: (a) approval by the Committee of viable restructring plans as an independent OS or
a merged group. Viability includes verification that the OS will be able to comply with all
the regulation after the implementation of the restructuring plan; (b) acceptance by the OS
of the conditionality established by the Board; and (c) acceptance of the automatic
payment mechanism.
12.   The OS should be required to meet the new minimum regulation at all times after
an allowed period of adjustment to the new regulation. After such period, the supervisory
body should liquidate those OS in non-compliance, following the legal procedures to be
established. It is important that this strict procedures be followed in order for the OS to
have an incentive to approach the FROS for technical assistance.
2     There are approxumately 96 Obras Socales with more than 10,000 beneficiaries, of which about
39 have more than 50,000 beneficiaries. The 39 larger OS cover about 78% of the total universe of
beneficiaries receiving services from the OS. At the time of ppraisaL the Government had not arrived to
a full consensus of limiting access to the facilities to the OS with more than 10,000 beneficiaries.



70                              Annex C
Procurement Procedures
13.   Procurement procedures will be different for the grant facility and the loan
facilities. The grant facility, since it will be financed with resources derived from the
investment sector component, will have to follow strict IBRD rules. It is recommended
that the FROS (through the procurement department in the Administrative Unit), carry out
the contracting of the qualified professionals that will assist the OS in the development of
restructuring plans. The procurement department will carry regular IBRD steps for the
procurement of each technical assistance contract (i.e. drafting of terms of reference,
request for no objection of TOR and short list of potential consulting firms, request for
bids including a technical proposal and a price proposal, evaluation of proposals and
drafting of technical assistance contracts). Despite being somehow more cumbersome,
carrying out a bidding proposal for each potential technical assistance contract has several
advantages: (i) allows the pre-selection of three to six potential consulting firms with
specific knowledge in the particular sector from which the OS draw their contributors (i.e.
agriculture, commerce, and so on); (ii) requires the presentation of a technical proposal by
the potential consulting firms which will provide with insights and details to be included in
the final contracts and which may have otherwise been left out; (iii) ensures adequate
prices for the performance of the technical assistance; and (iv) allows a transparent and
unbiased selection of the consulting firms. The OS will be invited to participate as an
observer in the selection of the consultants so as to make sure they are satisfied with the
transparency of the selection.
14.   The procurement of the Loan Restructuring Plan Technical Assistance
Implementation Facility will have to follow strict Government procedures, since funding
for this procedure will be derived from monetization of a balance of payments support
loan. Finally, contracts and financing under the Loan Refinancing and Staff Downsizing
Facility will carry standard terms with maturities and size depending on the outcome of
restructuring plans. The size and maturity of these loans will be approved by the
Committee, however, given the size of the problem and the restricted budget for the
program, caps for loan sizes will be established based on a transparent non-arbitrary
criteria (such as a given amount per beneficiary).
Operating Procedures
15.   Upon request of financing for the drafting of a restructuring plan by an OS, an
officer of FROS' Operating Department (a Case Officer) will be assigned the
responsibility for evaluating, and coordinating the request. Such responsibility initially
involves requesting all the relevant information from the OS to check compliance with
pre-qualifying criteria and making a recommendation to management with respect to such
compliance. Once the OS has pre-qualified and procurement procedures are finished, the
Case Officer will be responsible for: (a) reviewing the terms of reference for the drafting
of the restructuring plan; (b) ensuring timing and full compliance with the terms of the
contract signed for the drafting of the restructuring plan; (c) acceptance of the product
delivered by the consulting firm; (d) follow up of implementation of the restructuring plan
once approved by the Committee; and (e) monitoring of compliance of conditionality by
the OS during implementation of the restructuring plan.
Approval of Restructuring Plans
16.   The restructuring plans that, according to the best judgment of the FROS manager,
meet the criteria for Committee approval for implementation will be presented to the
Committee prior revision by the Secretary of Health (as head of the Executing Unit).



71                            Annex C
Final approval of the restructuring plans for implementation will be the responsibility of-
the Committee which will also establish the conditionalities to be met by the OS and the
schedule for tranche releases. Presentation to the Committee will be performed jointly by
the Case Officer (under the guidance and responsibility of the FROS manager),
representatives of the consulting firm that developed the restructuring plans and
representatives of the OS. The Committee will follow the following criteria for evaluation
and approval of the restructuring plan:
*  Compliance with Minimum Regulation: The restructuring plan should show that the
OS will be able to comply with the minimum required regulation prior to the end of the
transitory period allowed by such regulation. Minimum standards should be met in
terms of solvency margins, economic and financial viability, liquidity standards and
minimum internal control and administration systems. The restructuring plan should
also ensure compliance with the minimum required health packages to be provided.
* Repayment Capacity: The restructuring plans should be approved for financing under
the loan facilities only if they reflect that the OS will generate sufficient cash flow for
loan repayment within a maximum given maturity as established by the eligibility rules.
* Acceptance of Conditionality: Jointly with the restructuring plans, the FROS manager
will present to the Committee a set of conditions to be met by the OS for tranche
disbursement (at most three tranches). These conditions will minimize risks of the
loan operations and will ensure adequate implementation of the restructuring plans.
The Committee will review and, if necessary adjust, the tranche conditionality. The
conditionality should seek that the OS moves towards full compliance of rules and
regulations by the end of the implementation period. Final approval of the
restructuring plans and contract signing will take place only upon acceptance of
tranche conditionality by the OS.
* Acceptance of Automatic Repayment Mechanism: To ensure repayment, the FROS
should receive automatic repayment of interest and principle from the Direcci6n
General Impositiva. Such condition should be accepted by the OS and be reflected in
the contract agreement.
Monitoring of Implementation of Restructuring Plans
17.   The FROS, through its Operations Department will closely monitor the
implementation of restructuring plans of eligible OS with more than 50,000 beneficiaries.
As mentioned earlier, a Case Officer will be assigned to an OS from the time its requests
financing for the restructuring plan until the plan is fully implemented. The Case officer
will help the OS in complying will all requirements to obtain financing from the FROS,
acting as go between the FROS and the OS. The Case Officer will also monitor the
implementation of the restructuring plan, ensuring that the managers of the FROS receive
accurate and timely information regarding such implementation. In the case of eligible
smaller OS (with less than 50,000 beneficiaries), monitoring will be more systematic on
the basis of presentation of standardized forms that will reflect if conditionality for tranche
release has been complied with.



72                            Annex C
Ex-post Supervision
18.   Given the close relationship between the Case Officers and the OS, approval of
tranche release and, therefore, of compliance of tranche conditionality, will be done by the
Ex-post Supervision Department also reporting to the FROS manager. The personnel in
this department will receive from the Case Officer reports reflecting compliance of the
conditionality and the recommendation of the Case Officer with respect to tranche release.
It will be the responsibility of the personnel of the Ex-post Department to make a final
recommendation to the FROS Manager regarding the disbursement of tranche releases.
Supervision After implementation of Restructuring Plans
19.   Monitoring and supervision of the OS after implementation of the restructuring
plans will be the responsibility of the supervisory authority and will be based on specific
rules, regulations and standards.



73                             Annex D
ARGENTINA
HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM LOAN
Regulation of the Obras Sociales
Overal Administration
1.          The Obras Sociales should adopt an overall administrative structure
consistent with principles of good corporate governance. The ideal model for such a
structure resembles the management of a mutual insurance organization, in which direction
and leadership are provided by a Board of Directors elected by, and responsible to, the
membership. While members of the Board may represent other constituencies, it should
be clear that the paramount responsibility of all serving on the Board is to ensure that
Obra Social members receive the best quality of health care, at the lowest cost. The
Board would be authorized to retain appropriate and competent management staff to carry
out operations.
2.          The regulatory system would then focus upon relations between officials of
the regulatory agency and the management of the institution, with the understanding that:
(a) the Board should be informed immediately of any serious concerns of the regulatory
body; and (b) reports filed with, or received from, the regulator body should be deposited
with the Board.
Specifics of Regulation
3.          The regulatory framework devised for the Obras Sociales, while sensitive
to the key health sector role played by these funds, must grant equal priority to their status
as financial institutions. As below, the regulatory framework for the Obras Sociales must
allow for adequate supervision of: (a) quality of health care provided, through the financial
intermediation of the Obras Sociales; (b) the financial status of the Obras Sociales
themselves; and (c) market conduct, after opening of the health insurance market to
competition.
Ouality of Health Care
4.          With respect to monitoring of health care, the regulator should seek to
ensure that Obras:
(a) comply with all the standards adopted as part of the health care reform plan,
particularly with any decrees relating to the provision of a minimum standard
package of health care services;
(b) apply appropriate measures for cost containment;



74                              Annex D
(c) offer a uniform standard of services to all members, enrollment of whom
should not involve discriminatory practices; and
(d) comply with all procedures recommended by the designated regulatory body,
with regard to overprovision of medical services (for plans that operate on a
"fee-for-services" basis) and underprovision of benefits (for capitation plans).
5.           Regulations should require the Board of each Obra to establish written
policies for application by its management in critical areas. The management will be
expected to supply a copy of these policies to the regulatory body and to obtain approval
from the regulator of the policy statements and of the management's plans for monitoring
compliance and for identifying cases of non-compliance.
6.           The regulator should introduce a system of prescribed returns, wherein
individual Obras would outline targets for improvement in services and the quality of
health care, and indicate the tools used to monitor progress towards those objectives. The
regular monthly filings with the regulator should include progress reports.
7.           The regulator should establish benchmarks for the provision of health
services. Standard health care statistics (such as days of hospital care, number of doctors'
visits, etc.) should be routinely gathered. The regulator should monitor carefully the
statistics collected, to identify those that are not performing satisfactorily and, as required,
seek remedial action.
8.           In addition to the monitoring of statistics filed, the regulatory body should
be obliged to perform a regular series of on-site inspections of the Obras Sociales. Due to
the system of corporate governance and the regularity of filings, these inspections can be
quite narrow in focus -- the inspectors could visit all or most of the Obras Sociales in a
given period, to verify with each of them the specific cause of concern.
9.           Complaints Office. In order to ensure that the standard of care is being
maintained, the regulatory body should maintain an office for receipt of complaints and
inquiries from members of the Obras Sociales and their beneficiaries. Staff of this office
should intervene, as required, with individual Obras Sociales. It will also serve to provide
the regulator with a perspective of the functioning of the Obras from the members' point
of view.
10.          To ensure maximum transparency of the system, the regulatory body
should establish a regular publication, which discloses the nature of its investigations and
the sorts of problems uncovered, as well as expected remedial actions. This publication
should also identify the nature of any serious problems identified by the complaints office.
11.          Sanctions. If the regulatory body becomes aware of a serious problem in
the provision of health services, it must have the power to apply sanctions. Sanctions
could include a fine or more serious penalties. If problems are not corrected after



75                              Annex D
allowance for a reasonable period of time, the regulator should have the authority to
forbid the Obra in question from remaining in business.
12.         StatisticalAnalysis. Another important activity of the regulatory body
should be the collection and analysis of health care statistics, to provide information to
those involved in the health sector regarding the nature and cost of a defined minimum
package of services, as well as to help establish claim rates that would be useful in risk-
related pricing.
13.          The regulatory body should seek the assistance of consultants to help
devise an appropriate statistical and service care monitoring report.
14.         Advisory Committee. The regulatory body should have access to a special
multi-disciplinary committee, whose membership should include academics and health care
professionals. This committee should be convened at the request of the regulatory body,
for purposes of discussing emerging issues in the health care field.
Financial Status
15.         With respect to monitoring of the financial status of the Obras Sociales,
the regulator should seek to:
(a) ensure that only those Obras capable of meeting their financial obligations
regarding medical claims are permitted to remain in business;
(b) ensure that each Obra Social maintains an adequate system of financial
controls;
(c) identify as soon as possible any emerging situation that would imperil the
financial situation of an Obra Social;
(d) where indicated, ensure that appropriate remedial actions are promptly taken;
and
(e) provide adequate disclosure to all members or potential members of the
financial strength of each Obras Social.
16.         In order to carry out its mandate regarding financial monitoring, the
regulatory body should implement a system of financial reporting with appropriate
accounting standards. Monitoring should be based upon the filing of periodic reports, as
for the case of health care monitoring. However, the supervision of financial status should
be assisted by the application of a series of formal tests of financial strength. These,
together, with the work of inspection carried out by the regulatory body, should enable the
early identification of Obras experiencing financial difficulties.



76                              Annex D
17.         Financial Reporting. Each Obra Social should be obliged to provide to
the regulator quarterly financial reports, which include a complete balance sheet and
income statement for the quarter. The reports should be prepared using accounting and
reporting standards specified by the regulator. To the extent possible, the reports should
mirror those used in other countries for reports by financiers of health care. The reports
should contain the details necessary for computation of "early warning tests", including
the solvency margin.
18.         Once per year, the Obra should file with the regulator a comprehensive
report showing the results of its operations for the year. The report should specify the
amount and nature of any subsidy received, as well as an analysis of the nature and cost of
claims incurred. The reports should include a list of all non-liquid assets owned by the
Obra, with a schedule showing carrying values as well as current market value.
19.         Minimum Standards of Solvency. In any insurance situation, the insurer
cannot determine with precision the amount that will ultimately have to be paid out in
benefits. By extension, it cannot determine the amount of premium or contribution it
should collect so as to exactly cover the costs it will incur, leaving a suitable margin for
expenses and profit. The practice has developed that, when an insurance organization
(defined here to include such organization as Obras Sociales or pre-pagas) receives
premiums or contributions in advance against future contingency payments, it must set
aside the greater part of those contributions in order to meet the claim payments in a
timely manner. while the estimation of the amount to be asset aside is dome with the
greatest care and in the utmost good faith, experience has shown that the smallest of
errors in the calculation of these "technical reserves" can place the insurance organization
in grave financial difficulty.
20.          To guard against this type of problem, insurance organizations are
expected to establish minimum amounts of capital and surplus that will be available to be
applied to cover claim payments in the event of an incorrect estimation. The amount
established can be referred to as "net worth," "solvency margin" or a variety of other
terms. It is calculated mathematically as the amount by which the value of the assets
owned by the organization exceeds the total value of all its known obligations, including
unpaid bills and bank indebtedness, together with whatever technical reserves have been
established fir future claims. For purposes of these calculations, it is important that the
value of both the assets and liabilities are determined on a consistent basis, with proper
recognition for market value fluctuation and rates of exchange.
21.          The regulator should seek technical assistance from consultants to help
estimate the appropriate solvency margin that should be maintained by the Obras Sociales.
It has been suggested that the minimum solvency margin to be retained by these
organizations be equal to one month's contributions. This would approximate eight
percent of the contributions to be received in one year. However, for some Obras, the
amount that is received in subsidies represents an essential part of their revenues. Since
that is the case, it would be more advisable to express the requirement as a percentage of



77                              Annex D
the amount that is paid out in a year for claims. International standards for
property/casualty business should call for a margin of closer to 20 percent of one year's
claims as minimum capital. Owing to the short-term nature of claims faced by the Obras
Sociales, this may be an unnecessarily rigorous standard for capital. If that is so, it may be
acceptable to place it in the range of ten percent of one year's claims; i.e., slightly more
than one month's claims. If a level of one month's claims is adopted, then it wili be
necessary for the regulators to move very quickly, at the first sign of trouble, to shift the
policyholders from an ailing Obra into a financially health one. It should be noted that
many of the Obras currently operate without any margin at all.
22.          "Early Warning Tests. " Consultants should assist the regulator to devise
an appropriate set of "early warning tests". Tests of this nature will assist the regulator
and the organization being supervised to identify problems, before it is too late to take
remedial action. One obvious test would be a continuing decline in the available solvency
margin, which would indicate that the Obra either is growing more rapidly than its capital
can afford, or that it has been experiencing claim costs greater than it had estimated when
premiums were set. The latter situation is also evident when claims exceed contribution
revenues.
23.          Other commonly used tests include: (a) tracking the ratio of total
contributions to the available solvency margin; (b) tracking the ratio of administrative
expenses to total contributions received (in the case of the Obras Sociales, this ratio is not
supposed to exceed eight percent); and (c) of specific use to the Obras, the degree of
subsidization that is received/required during the redistribution process each year.
Obviously, an Obra requiring extensive subsidization should be closely monitored by the
regulator.
24.          Supervision and Inspection. The regulator should have complete access
to the books and records of each Obra Social. Regulation should involve both off-site
and on-site supervision. The regulatory body should be organized so that individual
professional staff are held accountable for a defined "portfolio" of Obras. These "case
officers" should be held responsible for reviewing all material filed by the Obras, apply
"early warning tests" to the results reported by each Obra and take appropriate follow-up
action, where indicated. If results suggest a matter of serious concern, the responsible
professional should prepare a report for the head of the regulatory body, with a
recommendation as to the most appropriate course of remedial action. This action should
be discussed with senior management of the Obra in question. If the Obra fails to
undertake recommended remedies, the regulatory body should be authorized to impose
appropriate sanctions, including, where appropriate, the forfeiting of an Obra's authority
to operate.
25.          External Audit. As a supplement to the work of supervision, but also as
an aid to the management of the Obras, each Obra should be obliged to retain the services
of a recognized accounting firm. This firm should conduct, at least once a year, an audit
of the books and records of the Obra in question, including an opinion on the Obra 's



78                             Annex D
annual financial statement. The audit should apply Generally Accepted Auditing
Standards, while the accounts of the Obra should be measured against Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles, as have been adopted internationally. In addition, the auditor
should issue a "management letter," as appropriate, indicating those areas where
improvements are required in the financial and accounting practices followed by the Obra.
The reports issued by the auditor should be made available to the regulatory body. There
should be an open interchange of information between the auditor and the regulators.
26.         Sanctions. The regulatory body should be equipped with a range of
sanctions to deal with any lack of compliance on the part of a specific Obra, including
fines and suspensions with authority available to order the Obra to discontinue its health
insurance operations, as warranted. However, any Obra penalized with a sanction of this
degree of severity should enjoy the right of appeal, to the relevant Cabinet Minister.
27.         Should any Obra be closed as a result of imposition of such a sanction, the
regulatory body should have the authority to seize control of its business and property, for
purposes of transferring such to another Obra that will be prepared to operate in the
expected manner and to correct whatever defects led to seizure of said assets.
28.         Liquidity Requirements. Given the short-term nature of the business and
most of the liabilities assumed by an Obra Social, the larger part of its technical reserves
must be maintained in a highly liquid form. The presentation of accounts should include a
careful matching of assets and liabilities by term. Any situation in which short-term assets
are less than short-term liabilities should be regarded as a matter of serious concern. The
Obra should be expected to supply plans for immediate remedial action. In addition, each
Obra should be expected to provide a margin of excess liquidity in the form of short-term
Government securities or bank deposits.
29.         Investment Rules. Some portion of the assets owned by an Obra Social
may properly be invested in longer-term assets. For this reason, the regulator should
establish special regulations regarding the type of investments that may be owned by an
Obra Social. These would be quantitative rules specifying the limits of concentration of
assets in holdings of a particular type or of a particular issuer.
30.         Publication. As in the case of health care monitoring, the financial
monitoring of the Obras by the regulatory body should be carried out in as transparent a
fashion as possible. Periodic reports issued by the regulator should disclose the financial
situation of each Obra, and possible also the finding of "early warning tests."
Market Conduct
31.         After policy changes allow Obras Sociales members to switch membership
at specific points during the year, the regulator should also assume responsibility for
enforcing proper market behavior by the Obras. Specifically, the regulator should seek to
prevent overly aggressive marketing by Obras. In practice, the elevated commissions



79                             Annex D
and/or high advertising costs associated with aggressive marketing generally translate for
members into increased costs or reduced services.
32.         Pricing. Administration costs of the Obras Sociales, including advertising
and selling costs, should be covered by a specifically identified charge or "commission,"
which will be the basis for competition between the Obras Sociales. It may also be
appropriate to adopt a special formula for pricing of the services of Obras Sociales that
includes a specific fixed price for the mandatory package, permitting the Obras to charge
additional amounts for enhanced services on a voluntary basis, together with the additional
fee for administration. It is recommended that all these amounts be expressed in pesos,
and not as percentages of payroll.
33.         An additional part of the price should be the levy, expressed as a
percentage of payroll, to create a fund to subsidize costs for lower-income workers and to
cover costs for procedures of alta complejidad. The total price developed in this way
should be measured against the stipulated percentage of payroli prescribed in the
legislation, to ensure that in no case did the total charge for an individual exceed the
prescribed percentage.
34.         This system should allow for healthy competition among the Obras for
higher-income clients, with no discrimination against low-wage earners. Consultants with
particular expertise in pricing mechanisms should be retained to provide advice on the
formula, in order to ensure that these competitive objectives are met.
35.         Adverse Selection. Measures will have to be adopted to ensure that Obras
Sociales accept all applicants for membership. In a situation where there may be
individuals with widely varying rates of contribution, there is a possibility that the
managers of the Obras wiU be tempted to select their memberships from among higher-
income applicants.
36.         Similarly, and perhaps more importantly, there should be an inclination to
accept only those members who show no signs of deteriorating health. At least within the
confines of the prescribed minimum package of medical services, all applicants for
membership should be accepted.
37.         Misleading Adverdsing orMisrepresentation. In other jurisdictions,
regulators have been obliged to establish rules to monitor the advertising employed by
insurers and to order the correction of misleading statements. This type of regulation may
become necessary in the future, if libre elecci6n rules lead to brisk competition for
members.
38.         Control Over Entry and Ex*. Revised regulations should also seek to
establish control over the entry and exit of authorized market participants. Ideally, those
institutions receiving formal authorization from the regulating body should be allowed to
call themselves (and to operate as) Obras Sociales. The manner of coliection of members'



80                            Annex D
contributions (payroil deductions from employers are collected through DGIL which then
forwards contributions to the Obra Social indicated by the employee) provides an ideal
vehicle for establishing a basis for the regulatory regime. Regulations should specify that
contributions may only be directed to an Obra Social authorized by regulatory authorities
to be in good standing. E conversely, regulatory authorities signal that a particular Obra
is not in good standing, then the transfer of contributions would be terminated, and
members' contributions and privileges would be transferred to an Obra in compliance with
regulations.



81                              Annex E
ARGENTINA
HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM
Health Insurance Policy Reforms
1.           The success of efforts to introduce competition into the Argentine health
insurance market depends upon the timely and coordinated undertaking of a series of
essential studies and policy and regulatory reforms. After finalizing analysis of requisite
policy reforms and establishment of an appropriate regulatory framework, as required to
monitor and enforce the proposed reform initiatives (see paras. 3 and 4 below), authorities
must concentrate on the design and implementation of three interrelated mechanisms
underlying the overall reform initiative:
(a) definition of a basic health benefits package of essential health services, as
determined by clinicians and as feasible with available financial resources (see
paras. 5 to 7), that all insurers would be required to cover under competition.
By the end of the reform period, high technology (alta complejidad) services
authorized for financing would be covered under a complementary mechanism.
(b) establishment of an authoritative and reliable register of beneficiaries
(padr6n), providing essential information on the health, financial and family
status of beneficiaries' households (see paras. 8 to 10).
(c) improvement of the existing Fondo Solidario de Redistribucion 's ability to:
(i) in the first instance, reliably transfer to individual insurers the subsidy
required to bridge any shortfall between the established financial value of the
basic health services package and available Obra resources, averaged for all
members; and (ii) in the second instance, transfer such resources to households
on the basis of financial, health and familial status, as reflected in the updated
padr6n (see paras. 11 to 13). Over time, this transfer mechanism should also
incorporate procedures for coverage of alta complejidad and other defensible
treatments not included in the basic health benefits package.
2.           Implementation is scheduled to take place over 30 months, during which
time the reform process will gradually involved the participation of private insurers (pre-
pagas, mutuales, etc.) and extend coverage to autonomous workers (aut6nomos). As a
secondary priority, authorities will initiate study of financial and logistical requirements
involved in extending coverage to the estimated quarter of the Argentine population who
are currently uninsured.
Policy Reform and Development of Regulatory Framework
3.          Implementation of the planned reform initiative is predicated upon the prior
enactment of legal changes and establishment of a supportive regulatory framework. With



82                               Annex E
regard to legal changes, introduction of the reform initiative will require, at a minimum,
alteration of standing legislation on the operation of the National Health System (Ley No.
23661) and of the Obras Sociales (Ley No. 23660), as well as the timely announcement of
a decree establishing the general contours of the overaDl reform initiative. With regard to
the regulatory environment, authorities will be required to determine the appropriate locus
of regulatory authority for the insurance sector (currently within ANS SAL), strengthen
the designated regulatory agency and develop a series of regulations (including
appropriate sanctions) designed to ensure the proper market behavior of insurers (e.g., the
placement of restrictions on insurers' efforts to attract new customers), protect insurers
from possible market failures associated with competition (e.g., adoption of risk
adjustment mechanisms designed to ensure that insurers covering a high proportion of
"high risk" beneficiaries are not penalized financially), and monitor the quality of services
secured for beneficiaries (for details of specific regulatory reforms, see Annex D).
4.           Specific outputs required include:
(a) analysis and subsequent design of a set of appropriate legal and technical
instruments required to introduce competition in the health insurance market,
based upon the three essential sector reforms (libre eleccidn, automatic
distribution of FSR subsidies and the definition of a basic health benefits
package guaranteed by all insurers), including:
(i) operational procedures and an implementation timeline for the three
major reforms (i.e., libre eleccidn, automatic distribution of FSR
subsidies and the basic health benefits package);
(ii) requirements for operationalizing the eventual extension of coverage to
pre-pagas and other insurers; and
(iii) mechanisms for protection of insurers and beneficiaries from possible
market failures associated with introduction of competition.
(b) design of the new regulatory framework, which must, inter alia, address:
(i) institutional aspects of the designated health insurance regulatory
authority;
(ii) procedures for monitoring beneficiaries' equal access to the basic
health benefits package, including regulation of quality standards and
insurers' market behavior; and
(iii) the adequacy of technical reserves of health insurers.



83                              Annex E
Basic Health Benefits Package
5.          Introduction of a competitive health insurance market will require the
adoption of a basic health benefits package, the entirety of which all insurers would be
required to finance. The absence of such a defined set of "financeable" treatments has
contributed to the escalation of costs in the Argentine health insurance system, in that no
measures have been taken to limit beneficiaries' access to costly "high technology"
curative services or promote preventive treatment. Given the failure of the presently
structured FSR to distribute subsidies so as to guarantee for all insured individuals a
minimum financial value of health services, the range and quality of services actually
provided to beneficiaries is even further skewed.
6.          Argentine authorities must define a basic health benefits package which is
both affordable (in light of prevailing financial possibilities) and clinically appropriate; i.e.,
that covers all essential health services while promoting rational and efficient health
consumption choices. Although insurers should be free to cover services in addition to
those included in the basic health benefits package, authorities must enforce the
imposition of sanctions against those insurers who, in the course of supervision, are
identified as not covering the full extent of the defined package of services. Moreover, in
light of the volatility of sector finances and the nature of health demand, the basic health
services package must be a flexible mechanism, capable of periodic adjustment.
7.           Steps involved in the establishment of the basic health benefits package
include:
(a) research and study of relevant international and domestic experiences in this
area;
(b) determination of overallfinancial availability, including financial resources
that will become available as a result of improvement of the FSR distribution
mechanism;
(c) development for discussion of alternative models of the basic package,
including necessary variations by region;
(d) simultaneous discussion of alternative mechanisms for the financing of "high
technology" (alta complejida4d medical services, beyond the parameters of
the basic health services package; and
(e) selection and imnplementation of the basic health benefits package and,
subsequently, mechanism for the financing of eligible services of alta
complejidad.



84                               Annex E
Register of Beneficiaries (Padr6n)
8.           Smooth operation of a competitive health insurance market depends upon
insurers' access to an updated and reliable data base containing vital information on the
insured population (including age, gender, residence, occupation, family situation and
health history). Existence of such a unified register (padr6n) will enable, in the first
instance, greater equity in the transfer of FSR subsidies to individual insurers and, over
time, the development of institutional capacity to distribute subsidies on the basis of
individual beneficiaries' health risk. Development of a more reliable register of
beneficiaries will also enable authorities to track more effectively the billing of services
provided to insured individuals by public hospitals.
9.           Although DGI, the federal tax collection agency, maintains a partial
register, this data base, as presently structured, is unable to serve as a basis for a
competitive insurance market, in that it: (a) is not currently utilized by all Obras; (b) fails
to provid& information on beneficiaries' other family members; (c) does not correct for
incidences of multiple insurance coverage; (d) contains no information on individuals
insured through PAMI, the provincial Obras, or autonomous workers (aut6nomos); and
(e) does not presently allow for risk adjustment (implementation of which would ensure
that insurers assuming coverage of a high number of "higher risk" individuals would not
be penalized by greater competition).
10.          Steps involved in the development of a single, reliable and updated register
of beneficiaries include:
(a) review of essential rules and operational requirements for the desired
register (procedures for contacting beneficiaries, procedures for updating
information on beneficiaries, soflware requirements, etc.);
(b) updating of the current DGI register, to enable automatic distribution of FSR
subsidies on the basis of average "capitas" per Obra,
(c) design of the "definitive" register of beneficiaries, which will enable
automatic transfer of FSR subsidies on the basis of individual beneficiaries'
health risk and will correct for risk adjustment and costly high-technology
medical services (alta complejidad):
(i) consideration of alternative proposals, based on international and
domestic experience; and
(ii) contracting with a suitable international firm to implement the model
selected; and
(d) implementation of chosen modelfor the register, including installation of
equipment, training, full implementation and monitoring.



85                              Annex E
Automatic Distribution of FSR Resources
11.         Given the captive nature of the presently structured health insurance
market, which is characterized by the absence of competition and the determination of
Obra membership on the basis of occupation, there exists considerable segmentation of
financial risk among insurers. While there is a fair degree of "financial homogeneity"
within Obras (in that members will tend to have similar salary levels), there is great
disparity among Obras.
12.         While established for the purpose of equalizing this imbalance, by providing
subsidies to Obras whose finances allow for smaller "capitas" that do not cover minimal
health services, the ANSSAL Fondo Solidario de Redistribuci6n (FSR) has not, in
practice, served this equity objective. In the absence of competition among insurers, clear
criteria for the transfer of "equity" subsidies to individual Obras, and agreement as to the
content of the "financeable" basic health services package, FSR transfers are often made
on arbitraiy or political grounds -- in some cases, to better-off Obras whose internal
finances allow for higher-than-average "capitas".
13.         Steps involved in the improvement of the FSR mechanism include:
(a) determination of overallfinancial availability, to cover both essential
services (i.e., the eventual "basic health benefits package") and services of alta
complejidad;
(b) development of the 'first-order" improvement in the FSR distibution
mechanism, allowing for the guarantee of a defined minimal financial "capita"
based on the average shortfall of entire Obras;
(c) consideration of altternative mechanismsfor the incorporation of transfers
for alta complejidad services to the FSR distribution mechanism; and
(d) development of the "second order" improwvment in dte FSR distribution
mechanism, allowing for the guarantee of a defined minima financial "capita."



86                               Annex F
ARGENTINA
HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM LOAN
Project Execution Organizational Structure
1.    The execution of the project will be performed through a structure which consists of a:
(i) the Minister of Health as the leading political and guiding officer of the Government; (ii) an
operating board (Executing Unit Committee); and (iii) an administrative and operating unit (the
Executing Unit). The organizational chart for the execution of the project is shown at the end
of this annex.
The Minister of Health
2.  The overall supervising and guiding authority of the health insurance reform program is
the Minister of Health. The Minister of Health will review: (a) policy matters brought to its
attention regarding the health insurance reforms; (b) all draft regulation to be submitted to the
President for approval by Decree; (c) all draft legislation to be recommended to the President
of Argentina for submittal to Congress; and (d) information regarding implementation of the
reform and activities of the Executing Unit. The Minister of Health will provide the Executing
Unit, through the Secretary of Health (who heads the Executing Unit), guidance regarding the
execution of the project.
The Executing and Coordination Unit Committee
3.    The maximum  authority of the Executing and Coordination Unit (UEC) is an
interdisciplinary Committee. The Board will have a total of 5 members representing different
sector of the Government. The Overall Unit Coordinator will be the Secretary of Health Policy
and Regulation as defined in the Administrative Decision No. 12/95 and will also preside over
the Committee. Agreement on the specific composition of the Committee, the method for
selecting and appointing members, and the authority and operating procedures of the Committee
is a condition for loan negotiations. The main functions of the Committee will be as follows:
with respect to the UEC as a whole and its administration: (i) approve its operating
manuals and mechanisms; (ii) approve the procurement procedures ensuring they
follow IBRD procedures where relevant; (iii) approve an annual budget for the
Executing Unit and each of the its major operating arms; (iv) review and approve
the annual reports and review the external audits; (v) name the internal auditor
and review all matters brought to its attention by such auditor; (vi) request the
performance of full external audits by qualified auditors at least once a year; and
(vii) review and approve all matters to be submitted for consideration of the
Minister of Health;



87                               Annex F
with respect to the Fondo de Reconversi6n de Obras Sociales (FROS): (i) approve its
operating manuals; (ii) approve all and each of the technical assistance and
reconversion operations to be financed with FROS funding; (iii) periodically
review reports regarding the adequate implementation of technical assistance
provided; (iv) periodically review reports regarding the implementation of
reconversion plans financed with FROS funding; and (v) approve conditionality
for each reconversion plan to be financed;
with respect the Fondo de Reconversi6n de PAMI (FRPAMI): (i) approve its operating
manuals; (ii) approve the technical assistance for the drafting of the INSSJP's
reconversion plan; (iii) approve the PAMI's reconversion operations to be
financed with FRPAMI funding; (iv) periodically review reports regarding the
adequate implementation of technical assistance provided; and (v) periodically
review reports regarding the implementation of the reconversion plan.
with respect to the Fondo de Programaci6n y Polfticas (FPP): (i) approve its operating
manuals; (ii) approve all and each of the technical assistance contracts to be
financed by the program; (iii) periodically review reports regarding the adequate
implementation of technical assistance provided; and (iv) review and approve
draft regulation prepared with financing of the program and submit regulation to
be approved by Supreme Decree or Law for consideration by the Minister of
Health.
The Executing Unit
4.     From an operational perspective the UEC will be headed by the Secretary of Health
Policy and Regulation. The UEC will have four arms: (a) the Fondo de Reconversi6n de Obras
Sociales (FROS) in charge of coordinating the drafting and implementation of the reconversion
plans for the Obras Sociales (OS); (b) the Fondo de Reconversi6n de PAMI (FRPAMI) in charge
of coordinating the drafting and implementation of PAIMI's reconversion plan; (c) the Fondo de
Programaci6n y PolIticas (FPP) in charge of coordinating the drafting of all regulation and of
technical assistance to Government Institutions; and (d) an administrative unit for the project.
The first three operating units will be headed by Coordinators and the administrative unit by a
Manager. The UEC would also have two off-line units--internal control and legal. A total of
xx professional staff and xx support staff has been estimated for the Executing Unit.
The Secretary of Health
5.   According to the Administrative Resolution No., the Secretary of Health Policy and
Regulation will be the maximum operating authority of the UEC. As the highest operating
authority, his main functions are to: (a) oversee that all of the Committee's mandates are carried



88                                Annex F
out; (b) legally represent the UEC; (c) present to the Committee budgets, financial statements,
annual reports, and other financial information according to the bylaws, manuals and other
operating regulations; (iv) higher and remove the coordinators (managers) of the different
operating units and the legal advisory unit; and (v) oversee all activities carried out by the
different Operating Units and by the Administrative Unit.
6. The Restructuring Fund for Obras Sociales (FROS). The objectives of the FROS are to
coordinate all activities regarding the drafting and implementing of the reconversion plans for
the Obras Sociales. The FROS is managed by a FROS coordinator who will: (a) oversee all
activities carried out by the operating unit, and ex-post evaluation unit, ensuring that financing
activities to the Obras Sociales (OS) follow the Committee's and the Secretary of Health's
directives; (b) prepare budgets and plans for the activities of the unit under his coordination; (c)
review and present to the Secretary of Health the terms of reference for the drafting of OS'
reconversion plans; (d) review and present to the Secretary of Health the proposed reconversion
plans and conditionality for the implementation of reconversion plans; and (e) review and present
to the Secretary of Health reports regarding compliance of tranche conditionality by the OS and
overall implementation of activities under the reconversion plans.
7.   The FROS has two departments: (a) Operations; and (b) Ex-post Supervision. The
activities of the FROS, as related to those OS with more than 50,000 beneficiaries (about 39 of
them) will be carried out in a portfolio management manner. That is a case officer will be
assigned to a particular OS from the time it requests financing for the drafting of the
reconversion plan until the plan is fully implemented. In the case of smaller OS, the design of
the development plan and the mechanisms of supervision will be highly standardized. Therefore,
for the smaller OS monitoring during preparation of the plans and during implementation will
be less rigorous with major emphasis on proof of compliance with tranche conditionality prior
to disbursement. For the large number of smaller OS, external assistance will be hired for spot
verification of compliance of diversification plan conditionality. The specific functions of the
different departments under the Unit are:
Operations Department: The Operations Department will have 5 case officers (one acting
as department head), each overseeing at most 3 large OS simultaneously and 2
officers verifying compliance of conditionality and coordinating the monitoring
of smaller OS performed by extemal assistance. The department will also have
three sector specialists (1 lawyer, one institutional and financial expert and one
systems expert) to help the case in the evaluation os reconversion plans. The
main functions of the department as related to the large OS are: (a) review the
documentation presented by the OS for pre-qualification, check if they meet pre-
qualification eligibility criteria and present a recommendation to the management
for its submission to the Committee; (b) draft, in coordination with the
procurement department in the Administration Unit and in consultation with the
OS, the terms of reference for the drafting of reconversion plans by consulting



89                                Annex F
firms; (c) monitor the drafting of reconversion plans by the consulting firms,
controlling its quality, compliance of contracts and timing; (d) recommend partial
and final payment of consulting contracts to the Administrative Unit; (e) carefully
review final reconversion plans presented by the consultants; (f) review and
discuss with the OS the final reconversion plans and potential conditionality for
their implementation; (g) present eligible reconversion plans to the management
for submission to the Committee; (h) closely monitor implementation of approved
reconversion plans and review compliance of conditionality; (ix) assist the OS in
the presentation of documentation ascertaining the compliance of tranche
conditionality; (i) assist the OS in responding to any request of clarification by
the Ex-post Supervision Department in order to meet conditionality and obtain
tranche disbursement; and (j) assist the OS in other matters pertaining to
financing activities carried out by the UEC. On the other hand, the specific
functions with respect to the smaller OS are: (a) draft, in coordination with the
procurement unit, standard terms of reference for the drafting of reconversion
plans for smaller Obras Sociales; (b) review the documentation presented by the
OS for pre-qualification, check if they meet pre-qualification eligibility criteria
and present a recommendation to the management for its submission to the
Committee; (c) review final reconversion plans presented by the consultants and
check compliance of contracts; (d) present to management eligible reconversion
plans to the management for submission to the Committee; (e) develop
standardized mechanisms for verification of compliance of conditionality for
tranche release of approved reconversion plans; (f) assist the procurement unit in
the drafting of terms of reference for external consultants that will perform spot
checks of compliance of implementation of reconversion plans; (g) review
monitoring work performed by extemal consultants; and (h) develop standard
procedures for presentation of information required for tranche disbursements to
the Ex-post Supervision Unit.
Ex-Post Supervision Department: The main objective of this department is to verify
compliance of tranche conditionality by the OS in the implementation of
reconversion plans. This Department will be in charge of recommending to the
FROS coordinator to instruct or refrain from instructing the Administrative Unit
to perform tranche releases. Given the close relationship that case officers have
with the OS, this department is an important part of the internal control
procedures of the UEC. The main functions of the department are: (i) review
compliance of conditionality for tranche release by the OS; (ii) counsel
management to authorize or refrain from authorizing tranche releases by the
Administrative Unit; and (iii) prepare reports for management and the Committee
regarding tranche conditionality compliance by the OS.



90                              Annex F
8. The Restructuring Fund for PAMI (FRPAMI). The INSSJP's restructuring and
strengthening component will be carried out with the coordination and supervision of the
INSSJP's Controler (interventor). Therefore, the main functions of the FRPAMI are limited
to: (i) assist the INSSJP with all procurement, disbursement and reporting procedures according
to rules and regulations approved by the Committee; (ii) coordinate all consultant's activities in
the drafting of the reconversion plan and the delivery of technical assistance to the INSSJP; (iii)
prepare reports for management and the Committee regarding all of INSSJP's activities carried
out with the program's funding as well as other relevant information regarding INSSJP's
performance; and (iv) review and inform management and the Committee on all aspects relating
to compliance by the INSSJP of all agreements and conditionality as stipulated in contracts
between the INSSJP and the UEC.
9. The Fund for Programming and Policies (FPP) ' The FPP has two main activities: (a)
coordinating all activities pertaining to the technical assistance to be provided for the drafting
of relevant regulation under the program. This coordination must ensure adequate timing of the
regulation to be issued and avoid contradictions in such regulation; and (b) coordinating all
technical assistance to be provided to the Regulatory Body for the sector (to ensure adequate
monitoring and supervising capacity of regulation) and to the Direcci6n General Impositiva (for
the implementation of an improved beneficiary data base or padr6n). To carry out its activities,
the FPP will have one coordinator or manager heading two departments. The main functions
of such departments are:
Regulatory Framework Department: (a) coordinate the drafting of all the new
regulations to be issued for the functioning of the health insurance sector
(i.e., regulation on the: overall regulatory framework for the operations
of the OS and INSSJP, minimum mandatory health package, beneficiary
data base, automatic subsidy mechanism, private health insurance agencies
or pre-pagas, and others); (b) review and adjust terms of reference already
prepared for the technical assistance to be provided (these draft terms of
reference will be prepared with funding of the PPF and are required as a
condition for negotiation) and submit them to the procurement department
under the Administrative Unit; (c) coordinate and assist the procurement
department with any request to ensure timely retainment of consultants;
(d) coordinate all consultants activities; (e) receive and review all
consultants work ensuring compliance of contractual terms, timing of
The structure described herein ref lects an active role by the Executing
Unit in the coordination and monitoring of the technical assistance to be
provided. This concept contrast a more passive role in which the Executing Unit
would only finance the technical assistance with a lesser level of activity in
the coordinating and monitoring of implementation of such technical assistance.



91                               Annex F
activities and quality of work; and (f) submit for consideration of
management and the Committee all draft regulation.
Government Technical Assistance Department: (a) coordinate the technical
assistance to be provided to the Regulatory Body and the Direcci6n
General Impositiva; (b) review and adjust the terms of reference prepared
for the technical assistance to be provided (these terms of reference are
required as a condition of negotiation in the case of the regulatory body
and as a condition for first tranche release in the case of the padr6n); (c)
coordinate and assist the procurement department with any request to
ensure timely retainment of consultants; (d) coordinate all consultants
activities; (e) receive and review all consultants work ensuring compliance
of contractual terms, timing of activities and quality of work; and (f)
inform management on progress in the implementation of the technical
assistance and institutional strengthening.
10. Administrative Unit. The Administrative Unit will have a manager in charge of three
small departments: (a) procurement and personnel; (b) budgeting and treasury; and (c)
accounting. The specific functions of these departments are:
Procurement and Personnel Department: (i) develop guidelines acceptable to the IBRD
for Committee presentation and approval for the contracting of consultants and
consulting firms under the different components of the program; (ii) receive
requests and terms of reference for procurement of different activities from the
operating unit coordinators; (iii) carry out all procurement procedures according
to Committee approved guidelines; (iv) submit to management all requests for
activity financing with summary reports of procurement procedures followed; (v)
develop a functions manual for personnel of the UEC; (vi) prepare procedures for
the contracting of personnel according to IBRD regulations and submit them for
approval by management and the Committee; and (vii) higher personnel for the
UEC according to procedures approved by the Committee.
11.  Budgeting and Treasury: (i) develop budgeting and treasury guidelines to be approved
by management; (ii) receive from the operating units budgets and other financial
information; (iii) prepare and submit to management for Committee approval
budgets and program activities; (iv) prepare requests for disbursements from
donors and submit them to management; (v) make all payments; and (vi) perform
other duties as required.
12.  Accounting Department: (i) prepare all financial statements and present them to the
management; (ii) develop a Management Information System in coordination with
the Internal Auditing Unit, the budgeting and treasury department and other



92                               Annex F
operating units; (iii) regularly receive information from the different operating
units and prepare a summary report of the management information system; (iv)
prepare all reports as required by donors; and (v) prepare an annual report and
submit for consideration of management.
The Internal Auditine Unit
13. The UEC will have an Internal Auditing Unit as an off-line unit, reporting directly to the
Committee of Directors. The unit will have representative of the different Government auditing
agencies (AuditorIa General de la Naci6n, Sindicatura General de la Naci6n y Unidad de
Auditorfa Intema de Salud) according to pertaining Govemment regulation. The main functions
of the internal auditing unit are: (i) review compliance of board instructions, rules, regulations
and manuals by all personnel; (ii) develop and implement adequate internal control systems and
procedures; (iii) insure that all intemal control procedures are properly functioning and that a
management information system is in place; (iv) carry internal audits in any unit at any time and
by request of management or the Committee; and (v) report to the Committee any problems
relating to the good management and proper use of resources.
Legal Advisory Unit
14.   The legal advisory unit is the second off-line unit and will have two lawyers. The
functions of the unit include: (i) advise the Secretary of Health, his deputy and the board
regarding all legal matters; (ii) review contracts and agreements to be signed by the Secretary
of Health; (iii) review draft regulations prepared by the regulatory unit; (iv) provide advice to
other units as requested; and (iv) take charge of any legal litigation or complaint that may be
received by the UEC.



HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM PROJECT: PROJECT MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
MINISTER OF HEALTH
DIRECTORATE:
Representatives of Different
Government Sectors
AUDITING UNIT 
SECRETARY OF1 HZALTH
|LEGAL ADVISOR 
RECONVERSION FUND |      |   RICONVERSION FUND                 FUND FOR
ADMINISTRATIVE    I
UT    FOR R                        FOR          I      I  PROGRAMMING AND
I  OBRASISOCIALES                 PAMI         I      I    POLICIES
FIROS)               I      (FRPAKI)       I      I      (FPP)
rJ-          '                                 I        r~     ~ ', ,F                           -
IOPERATIONS   IBX-POST I      I COORDINATION AND         REGULATORY| I INSTITUTIONAL |    | PROCUREMWNT
|ACCOUNTING I DISBURSEMENTS I
I DEPARTMENT   ISUPERV.      I  MONITORING      |    | FRAMEWORR    TECH.ASSIST.  |   | & PERSONNELI I&
I   I  1   1      1                  1      1           1  1              1    1



94                                 Annex G
ARGENTINA
HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM
The National Obras Sociales
1.          Argentina's social insurance system for health, loosely known as the Obras
Sociales (or simply Obras), is actually made up of three separate parts. The national system of
health insurance funds (Obras Sociales nacionales) described below covers more than 300 funds
with over eight million beneficiaries. The national system has its own relevant legislation and
regulatory agency. In addition, there is an Obra in each of Argentina's 24 provinces that provides
health insurance to provincial and municipal government employees and their dependents. The 24
Obras Provinciales, which are estimated to cover 4-5 million beneficiaries, operate according to
local legislation which varies slightly from province to province.' Finally, there is separate
national health insurance fund for the elderly, pensioned, and disabled -- PAMI -- with about four
million members.
2.          In the national system, which is discussed in detailed below, workers are grouped
together by their occupation and place of employment into one of the over 300 Obras. Currently,
employees (known as titulares) contribute 3 percent of their income, and employers contribute
from 3 to 6 percent, up to a maximum income of $3,750 per month under the national social
insurance system. All direct family members are also eligible for services, and workers can enroll
other family members (referred to as adherentes), such as parents-in-law, by paying an additional
1.5 percent of payroll per additional family member. The total population enrolled in the Obra
Social system is referred to as beneficiarios. Workers who hold more than one formal sector job
may be enrolled in more than one Obra Social, if the jobs are in different occupations or
industries. There is no mechanism to combine their contributions into one Obra Social. Families
may also be enrolled in more than one Obra Social, if both spouses work in the formal sector.
The total number of Obra Social members estimated to be enrolled in more than one Obra Social
is about 6 percent.2 In addition, an estimated 7 percent of Obras Sociales members also have
membership in private health insurance, either that they purchase directly or that their employer
purchases for them (1995 Estudio Sobre Salud).
3.           The system is based on solidarity principles, to the extent that individuals
contribute according to their ability to pay. However, the social insurance funds group together
workers with similar income levels. As a result, average Obra Social revenue per beneficiary
I For example, most, but not all, Obras Provinciales have a single institution that manages both pension and
health insurance. The contribution rates for insurance, expressed as a percentage of wages, are highly variable
among provinces.
2  1995 Estudio sobre SahL  Stasics from this sury are ad fuly representtW   of Argena, as the sunv
overreprets major uiben areas.



95                                 Annex G
varies greatly across the Obras Sociales. This results in a wide disparity in the health services that
workers receive. The wealthier Obras Sociales can afford to provide fairly comprehensive
services to their enrollees, while the poorest Obras Sociales are able to offer very little in the way
of outpatient and hospital services.
4.          To address this problem, the Government operates a redistribution fund (Fondo
Solidario de Redistribuci6n, or FSR), which was designed to redistribute funds from richer Obras
Sociales to poorer Obras Sociales. The FSR is financed by a portion of the payroll contribution
to social insurance (currently ten percent of the payroll contribution for all but those in white
collar Obras Sociales, for whom the contribution is 15 percent). In practice, the FSR has not
served the objective of redistributing income from the wealthiest to the poorest Obras Sociales.
First and foremost, this is because other criteria have governed the redistribution of ANSSAL's
resources. Secondly, the resources flowing into the fund are insufficient to equalize, or nearly
equalize, average per capita income across Obras Sociales.
5.           There are eight main types of Obras Sociales, established under Law 23660 (see
Table 1). The largest type, accounting for 55 percent of all beneficiaries, is the Obra Sociales
sindicales, made up of workers under collective labor contracts. The second largest category
comprises Obras Sociales legally constituted as institutes with mnixed administration (i.e., joint
management by the public sector and workers' representatives), which account for about 28
percent of all beneficiaries. The third largest Obra Social category is white collar workers (7
percent of all beneficiaries). These include Obras Sociales with white collar workers from one
industry, such as the cigarette industry, or Obras Sociales made up of white collar workers across
several industries.
6.          The white collar Obras Sociales are different from the other Obras Sociales in two
important respects. As mentioned above, a higher share of white collar worker contributions (15
percent) is directed to the redistribution fund, operated by ANSSAL. The second major
difference is that white collar Obra Social workers already have some choices as to the Obra
Social to which they belong. All other types of Obras Sociales hold completely captive
populations--there is no possibility of the worker directing his or her contribution to another Obra
Social. Although the white collar Obras Sociales permit choice, they report that, in practice, few
members exercise this choice. The white collar Obras Sociales also can offer their members more
choices of services because of their higher income per capita. Some work with pre-paid private
health insurance (pre-pagas), and offer their members a choice of plans.



96                                   Annex G
Table 1. Beneficiaries and Average Monthly Revenue per Beneficiary by Type of Obra
Social, According to DGI, 1994
Type of Obra           Reported        Percent  Number of   Monthly Obra Social
number of      of total  operating    income from payroll
beneficiaries            Obras        contributions per
Sociales     beneficiary (S)
Total                   8,248,311      100/.   276           23
Sindicales              4,611,492       56%      203           19
Estatales (state          83,963        1%         6           36
industries)
Por convenio (by          44,496        1%        19           35
agreement)
Personal de direcci6n    609,404        7%       23            51
(white collar)
Administraci6n mixta    2,303,163       28%       13           28
(mixed administration)
Other I/                  162,146       2%       12           22
No Obra Social           433,647        5%       N.A.         N.A.
reported 2/
I/ Includes Associations of Obrs Socaes, Obras Sociales por Adhesi6n, Obras Socales created under _aw 2176,
Obras Sociales of Businesses.
2 DGrs data base indicates that about 5 percent of reported beneficiaio have mis_g information for the Obra
Social oaffalihation. This is explained, in part, by the fact that some employers such as the judiciary, by law, pass
contributions directly to Obras Sociales, instead of through DGI.
Source: DGI. Revenuefigures refer to 1994. Beneficiary numbers refer to September, 1994.
7.           The Obras Sociales differ considerably in terms of efficiency of operations. As
noted in Table 2, while some Obras operate quite efficiently with reively small staffs, many
have very low ratios of beneficiaries to employees. (It should be noted that Table 3 does not
factor out medical staff directly employed by some Obras, the inclusion of which will skew
comparison of ratios).



97                                Annex G
8.          The creation of Obras Sociales by occupation and industry has resulted in a
proliferation of Obras Sociales, many that cover small populations. However, as there is no
mechanism for an Obra Social to close or be removed from the official registry maintained by
ANS SAL , the exact number of operating Obras Sociales is not known. Of the 390 Obras
Sociales recorded in the ANSSAL registry in September 1994, about 80 record no members and
appear to no longer function. Some Obras Sociales with no reported beneficiaries, however, still
accrue payroll contributions from the tax collection agency, DGI. Another thirty Obras Sociales
record fewer than 100 beneficiaries in total, although ANSSAL records indicate that no
functioning Obra Social has so few beneficiaries. Obras Sociales with 0-100 reported
beneficiaries were dropped from the data reported in Table 1 in order to present a picture of the
numbers of Obras Sociales that appear to be in operation -- a total of 276 Obras Sociales.
9.          It is clear, however, that a large number of Obras Sociales are very small in size.
This is likely to be a significant problem for their efficient operation because they do not reach
sufficient scale to spread administrative costs and risk over a large population base. More than
half of the 276 Obras Sociales in Table 1 have fewer than 5,000 beneficiaries. About 30 percent
have fewer than 1,000 beneficiaries. Most of the population is concentrated in the few larger
Obras Sociales. The seventeen largest Obras Sociales have over 100,000 members each, and
account for 57 percent of total enrollment. The largest Obra Social in Argentina, OSECAC,
which finances services for workers in commerce and services, reported 1.13 million members in
September 1994 -.- about one-tenth of the total membership of the national Obras Sociales..
10.         Because Obras Sociales are made up of members from similar occupations and
industries with similar income levels, average Obra Social revenue per beneficiary varies largely
across Obras Sociales. The Obras Sociales sindicales, as a group, average inflows of $19 per
beneficiary per month. In contrast, the white collar Obras Sociales average inflows of $51 per
beneficiary per month. Some Obras Sociales have income per beneficiary of less than $5 per
beneficiary per month. Others record inflows of over $80 per beneficiary per month. While
ANSSAL's redistribution fund could play a much stronger role in improving the equality of
income distribution across Obras Sociales, it has played this role very weakly to date.
Sources and Uses of Obra Income
11.         Sources of Financing. Obras Sociales receive income from several sources:
payroll contributions, extraordinary income, subsidies from ANSSAL, fees, and other income.
The most important source of income to Obras Sociales is from payroll tax contributions. The
only portion of Obra Social income that is well monitored by the government is the payroll
contributions that flow through DGI. Obras Sociales periodically report other sources of income
to ANS SAL, but it is unclear how accurate they are, as there is no verification of these numbers.
12.         Payroll contributions. Up until August 1993, the contribution to Obras Sociales
was 9 percent of payroll tax, up to incomes of $3,750 per month. All Obras Sociales except
white collar Obras Sociales received the full amount, less ten percent that went to ANSSAL for
redistribution (15 percent, in the case of white collar Obras Sociales). Following decree 2609/93



98                                Annex G
in August 1993, the government cut the employers' contribution, in order to reduce labor costs
and to stimulate employment. The size of the cut varied across sectors and zones of the country.
Services were initially excluded from the employer cut, except tourism. The reduction in
employers' contribution was estimated to cut Obra Social income from payroll contributions by
about 10 percent, but this varied across Obra Social, depending upon their geographic location
and sector.3 The measure was bitterly opposed by labor, and several adjustments were
subsequently been made to the employer's contribution rate. In March 1995, the employer
contribution was again adjusted so that variation now depends solely on location - more
depressed zones in the country have deeper employer contribution cuts, up to 50 percent (in
contrast to 80 percent under the original decree), in order to stimulate employment. In response
to criticism by Obras Sociales over the cuts, the government gave ANSSAL the authority to
distribute an additional $80 million in 1994 and $10 million in 1995 to Obras Sociales to
compensate partly for the cut in employer payroll contributions.
13.         Since 1992, almost all payroll tax contributions to Obras Sociales flow through the
tax collection agency, DGI. DGI collects the employer and employee contribution and channels
most of it directly to the Obra Social, with a portion reserved for ANSSAL. Some businesses,
however, are exempt by law from this procedure. The armed forces and the judiciary, for
example, channel contributions directly to the Obras Sociales and to ANSSAL, respectively.
14.         Payroll tax evasion is a major problem for the Obras Sociales system. Some
employers keep workers off the books in order to evade payroll taxes. It is unclear whether or
not these workers who are not contributing to the system have access to Obras Sociales services.
15.         When a worker is fired or laid oflf the Obra Social is required to continue
providing services to the worker and his or her family for a period of three months. The Obra
Social, however, stops receiving any payroll contribution to cover those beneficiaries. These
costs fall disproportionately on Obras Sociales with seasonal employment, such as agriculture
workers, and with much fluctuation in employment, such as the construction sector. While the
ANS SAL redistribution fund could, in theory, compensate Obras Sociales for this, in practice it
does not.
16.         Other sources of income. Although the bulk of income for the Obras Sociales
comes from payroll contributions, Obras Sociales receive income from several other sources:
extraordinary income, subsidies from ANSSAL, fees, and income from other assets. A handful of
Obras Sociales receive what is called "extraordinary" income. For the Obras Sociales of banking
sector employees, this extraordinary income consists of a percent of the commissions of bank
transactions. In the insurance sector, extraordinary income accrues from insurance transactions.
The Obra Social for tobacco workers receives a percent of cigarette sales. Many Obras Sociales
3 El Gasto Piblico Social en laArgenfina: UnAniMs d Wsu Compwnent6o (1980-94)
Laura Golbc, Susana IAma, Buenos Aues, Aogo 1994.



99                                 Annex G
also receive subsidies from ANSSAL on a month-to-month basis. The system of subsidies is
discussed further below. Obras Sociales also receive inflows from fees from the sale of coupons
that entitle members to visit physicians or to be admitted into hospitals. Obras Sociales members
also pay co-payments for services. Some of the richest Obras Sociales also earn income from
other sources, particularly assets they might own.
17.         Uses of Financing. Most Obras Sociales spending appears to be on health
services. According to ANSSAL, Obras Sociales are permitted to spend up to eight percent of
their total income on non-health related activities, such as travel or other recreational benefits for
their members. They are expected to spend no more than 10 percent of their revenue on
administration. Neither figure is monitored adequately by ANSSAL. Obras Sociales report
financial information to ANSSAL, but no independent audits are required so there is no
mechanism in place for verification of the data reported to ANSSAL. Some Obras Sociales
report administrative expenses as high as thirty percent or more.
18.         Benefits Provided. Obras Sociales are not required to provide a minimum set of
health services to their members. This is in contrast, for example, to the German social insurance
system where the benefit structure is determined by the health insurance law and is basically the
same for all enrolled in the social insurance funds. Given the sharp differences in average income
levels across Obras Sociales, there are wide disparities in the comprehensiveness of services
provided. While some of the poorer Obras Sociales may say that they offer fairly comprehensive
services, utilization rates indicate that in practice the coverage is low. Obras Sociales averaging
income per capita of $5 per month, for instance, are probably providing almost nothing in the way
of health services. Unless they are eligible for services from another Obra Social, PAMI, or a
private health insurance policy, these Obras Sociales members must pay considerable arnounts out
of pocket to receive services, or use public hospitals.
19.         Overall, about 5 percent of Obras Sociales members who were hospitalized in the
last twelve months report going to a public hospital (1995 Encuesta de Salud). It is very likely
that members of the poorest Obras Sociales--because their Obra Social offers limited services--
make the most use of public hospitals of all Obras Sociales members. This results in a significant
subsidy from the government to the Obras Sociales members because as a rule, public hospitals
have not managed to recover costs from Obras Sociales or individuals. The government,
however, is implementing policies that over time will increase cost recovery by the public
hospitals. If no changes are made to strengthen the financial condition of the poorest Obras
Sociales, these policies would further worsen their financial situation and the benefits received by
their members.
Provision of Services
20.         All Obras Sociales operate with provider networks. In contrast to the German
social insurance system, no Obra Social simply reimburses services provided by any accredited
health provider. Except for emergencies, Obra Sociales members must obtain services from
designated providers. Many Obras Sociales provide some services directly. They may run a



100                               Annex G
small clinic or have some physician employees. The majority of services are contracted out to
networks of providers, and Obra Sociales members must go to providers within the Obra
Sociales network. For non-emergencies, Obras Sociales members typically visit their Obra
Social to obtain coupons that entitle them to seek ambulatory or hospital care. There is usually a
small fee for these coupons. There are official co-payments for ambulatory visits, hospitalization,
and pharmaceuticals. In addition to official co-payments and fees for coupons, physicians often
charge additional 'unofficial" fees directly to the Obra Social member when services are
provided. No estimates exist of the size of these fees, called the "plus", but they are believed to
be widespread.
21.         Many Obras Sociales in the wealthiest group of Obras Sociales--the white-collar
Obras Sociales--have capitated contracts with private insurance plans to provide services to their
members. Sometimes Obra Social member must pay an additional amount if he or she chooses a
private insurance plan over the plan offered directly by the Obra Social. One white-collar Obra
Social has 100 percent of its members under private insurance. Other white-collar Obras Sociales
offer multiple private insurance plans--up to fifteen total.
22.         Obras Sociales employ a variety of provider contracting methods including
capitation contracts, fee for service, and case-based payments. There do not appear to be any
regulatory impediments to experimentation and innovation in contracting methods.4 Some Obras
Sociales contract with intermediaries to handle their contracting. The Obra Social makes a
capitated contract with the intermediary for certain services on behalf of their members, and the
intermediary in turn contracts with a network of providers.
23.         Since most Obras Sociales serve captive populations, who cannot leave even if
they are unhappy with the services provided, they do not operate under strong incentives to
perform efficiently. Administrative ease is reported by Obras Sociales managers as one of the
main reasons for selecting a method of provider payment. It is widely reported that some Obras
Sociales managers require bribes of 15 percent of the contract value to make contracts with
providers or suppliers.
Financial Status of Obras Sociales
24.         Many Obras are carrying high levels of debt--roughly estimated at $450 million for
the Obras Sociales system as a whole as of October 1994. However, this estimate is not robust,
given that financial data reported by the Obras Sociales are not verified by independent audits.
Most of this reported debt is owed to providers: ANSSAL reports that about 170 Obras Sociales
owe significant levels of debt (about $417 million) to providers. Ten Obras Sociales account for
about 65 percent of this debt (see Table 3). In some cases, such as OSECAC, the largest Obra
Social in the country, the accumulated debt is relatively small in relation to its annual income (12
4In some countries such as Gemany, regulations impede social insurance fiuds from selective
contracting with providers. They must contract with all providers or none.



101                               Aonex G
percent). For the railway Obra Social, the debt is exbtmey large-545 percent of annual income.
For a subset of Obras Sociales in industries that were recently privatized, the responsibility for
the debt is in dispute-how much the govenument is obligated to pay under the privatization
agreement and how much the Obra Social is obligated to pay. This dispute is impeding any
resolution of the debt.
25.         Obras Sociales may also be in financial disarray from excess personnel or from
assets they own, such as clinics, that are losing money. ANSSAL estimates that the banking and
railway Obras Sociales have the most excess personnel-totaling 10,000 persons. Even if the
Obra Social wished to get rid of its excess personnel, the one-time severance payments may be
too high for the Obra Social to accommodate.
26.         There are many reasons why Obras Sociales have failed to operate with sound
business practices. First, there is weak accountability to their members and to ANSSAL, the
government agency that in principle is the regulatory authority. Second, Obras Sociales serving
workers in low income occupations, with low inflows per beneficiary, cannot count on stable and
automatic subsidies from the ANSSAL redistribution fund because the redistribution fund,
discussed in detail below, has not been distributed according to transparent and automatic criteria
tied to Obras Sociales income levels. Instead, Obras Sociales that incur debt use the debt as an
argument to claim subsidies from ANSSAL. In terms of receiving subsidies from ANSSAL, these
dynamics may work against the poorest Obras Sociales, who have the weakest ability to incur
debt with providers.



102                                  Annex G
Table 2: Obhm Jooll Wim Ovw  50,000 k _eflawus (A_SSI)
Iaresos MensJBens.
Nanme                     f      lrl     Em uo  fneEms Los
1       Empleado de Con.rclo y Ackivdes CMesl               1,160,761       6,372      182         21.8
2       Personal de Is Industrim Meblurgica                  505,185        4,200      120          18.7
3       IneEto do Serv. Soc. Actviades Ruraks y Mn..         317,435        1,134      280          8.3
4       Insthto de Servicos Sodua BancrW                     273,218       10,694       26         49.9
5       Conduc  Transports Cocivo de Paajero                 289,372        1,326      203         23.0
6       Ejecivos y Pnonal de Dlrocon de Empr_                227,516        2,162      105         48.5
7       Personal do la Actvidad Docont.                      202,330        2,574       79         27.2
8       Personal deo lActlividd Ho lera y Gasbnom             190,962         344      555         16.4
9       Accion Social de Empreswas                            179,123         215      833         59.4
10      Personal d la IndusLtria de   Almentcion             151,506         743       204         20.7
11      Sindicaft do Mecanico y AfiMn  del Tnraports         150,045        1,059      142         29.3
12      Instibuo de Obra Socil Miisterio do Trabjap          138,028          250      552         57.0
13      Choferes do Cambone                                  112,215          151      743         18.3
14      Pers. Edifdo do Rents y Horitl Rep. Arg.              96,842         303       320         23.8
15      Personal do Seguridad e Irwnetg. Priqdas              92,860         214       434         12.9
16      Personal de la Industria del Paco                     90,968         348       283         20.1
17      Personal do b Acividad VWivinkoob                     90,842         248       385         11.9
18      Personal Telefonico do lo Rep. Arg.                   85,002         206       413         34.8
19      Conductores Camlonero. y Personl Trans. Cargo         83,200          22    3,782          14.0
20      Insftluto de Obra Social Mnistrlo do Economs          88,417          876       73         58.5
21      Asociacion de Prestacloes Soclae (AP.S.)              67,5S4         797        35         49.8
22      Personal de Is Induirb Lochora                        62,315         195       320         24.8
23      Personal Agus Gassos y AInes                          59,080          20    2,953          23.0
24      Personal de Panadei                                   52,897           2   28,348          12.2
25      Supervisores de Is Indusbia Metalurgica               52,684         446       118         31.0
26      Petroleo y Gas Privado                                52,018          9S       525         25.9
27      Ados San Juan                                         50,589         797        63         10.6
Subtotal (1 - 27)                                  4,883,091      35,860      136
Al Other Obras Soclales with More OImn 300 Empkoye
28      Instituto de Serviclos Sociat. Personal Femrrviaro    34,825        2,518       14         30.6
29      Institto e Serv. Soc. Personal. Ind.Construcclon      10,334        1,340        3          9.8
30      Papal Misionero                                        2,303         532         4         18.5
31      Instio Servicbos Soclaes Pers. Indust Vidrio          24,152         436        55         23.3
32      Personal do la Industria dd Vesido y Afine            43,647         418  1W 5             17.8
33      Empreosa Nacional Correos y Telegraf.                 23,497         384        61         60.5
34      Personal do Taevsion                                  31,557         372         S         41.3
35      Personal Grafico                                      48,598         321       145         29.5
Subtotal (28 - 35)                                   216,913       6,319       34
Other Obras Sociales                               1,055,808       5,415      195
TOTALS                                             6,18,810       47,U93      129
Note: Only kIludes 180 Obras Sociales; exdudes PAMI
Source: Ministeno do Econonru, DGI



103                                 Annex G
Table 3: Debt of Obras Sociales from Medical Services
(as of October 1994; figures in USS)
Amount      As %       Per Capita     Debt        Debt as
of      of Total     Monthly        per         % of
Debt      Debt of      Income     Beneficiary    Annual
('000     Obras         (MSS)        (USS)       Income
USS)     Social"
Ten Most Heavily Indebted
Obras Sociales
Ferrovlarlo                65,185       16           36          2,319        545
Bancarios                  45,802       11           48            222         39
Docente                    34,497        8           28            181         53
OSECAC                     32,819        8           24            35          13
Metalairgica               26,711        6            16            59          30
Construccion               18,302        4            9            38          35
ISSARA                      15387        4            8            72          77
Seg. Com. Ind e Inv. Priv.  10,879       3           13            133         84
Ind Gas                    10,294        3           37            813         184
Electricidad                8,353        2           41           254          51
Subtotal                268,229       65
Total Debt of Obras Socdales  417,573    100                       -
Source: ANSSAIJDGI (September 1994)
27.          In order to improve the financial situation of the Obras Sociales and the services
offered to their members, ANSSAL or another regulatory body needs to set and enforce minimum
financial standards, financial reporting, and extenal audits requirements for the Obras Sociales.
The resources under ANSSAL's redistribution fund must be allocated according to transparent
and automatic criteria (mainly related to income levels of the Obras Sociales), so that Obras
Sociales would no longer try to incur debt to order to claim resources from the redistribution
fund. If Obras Sociales knew that ANSSAL would no longer bail them out with their debt, they
would have more incentive to operate on a financially sound basis. A basic package of services
should be mandated that all Obras Sociales must supply. The package should be set at a level so
that the low-income Obras Sociales, with automatic subsidies from ANSSAL, could supply it.
Finally, there must be penalties for Obras Sociales that do not meet these minimum standards.
Mechanisms need to be created so that non-performing Obras Sociales can close and their
members can transfer to other Obras Sociales. These measures would make up a limited reform
of the Obras Sociales system. A more extensive reform would open up the system to free choice.



104                                Annex H
ARGENTINA
HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM
The Central Redistribution Fund (FSR)1
1.          ANS SAL plays a major role with respect to the national Obras Sociales: it
subsidizes operations of these insurance funds from the money it receives from the payroll
contributions and from extraordinary income. While ANSSAL is the only public institution that
has any regulatory oversight over the Obras Sociales, this regulatory role is currently weak.
Financial Operations of ANSSAL
2.          Inflows. In 1994, ANSSAL's inflows amounted to about $447 milion. ANSSAL
receives the bulk of its resources, about 70 percent, from payroll tax contributions. Extraordinary
income provides about one-quarter of ANSSAL inflows, or about $120 million in 1994. This
refers to income from commissions on banking and insurance transactions, and taxes on beer and
tobacco. The vast bulk of extraordinary income (85 percent) is from banking transactions.
ANSSAL receives 50 percent of the total income from these sources and the Obra Social in the
sector receives the other 50 percent.
3 .          Ou(flow& As part of overall national fiscal policy, for the past three years,
ANSSAL's budget (its "permission" to spend) has been significantly below its inflows. In 1994,
for example, ANSSAL's budget amounted to 78 percent of total inflows (at the beginning of the
year, the gap was even greater, although an additional $80 million was later allocated to ANSSAL
to compensate for the fall in the employer contributions to Obras Sociales).
4.           ANSSAL's budgetary resources, less its administrative expenses, are referred to as
the Fondo Solidario de Redistribuci6n (FSR), here referred to as the redistribution fund. At
present, ANS SAL allocates its redistribution fund to the Obras Sociales and other entities in an
inequitable and inefficient manner. These problems are described in the paragraphs below under
each budget category: recurrent subsidies, capital subsidies, and provincial/municipal hospital
subsidies.
Recurrent Subsidies
5.           The major objective of the FSR is to redistribute funds from the richest Obras
Sociales to the poorest, so that all Obras Sociales will be able to provide some minimum level of
services. ANSSAL's effectiveness in this area has been reviewed several times. They indicate
that resources distributed from FSR are only weakly related to income levels of the Obras
I     In August 1995, the administration of the FSR was transferred to the Ministry of the Economy. However,
the same principles and approaches to improving the FSR still apply.



105                                 Annex H
Sociales. Average per beneficiary income of Obras Sociales in 1994 was correlated with Obras
Sociales subsidies from FSR. One would expect a correlation coefficient of close to 1 if funds
were distributed inversely to income level of Obras Sociales. The actual correlation coefficient is
only -.12, indicating that there is a very weak correlation. The relationship between Obra Social
income from its payroll contributions and subsidies received from ANSSAL is also very weak.
This situation has high costs for workers in the poorest Obras Sociales. In 1994, for example,
about 3.3 million beneficiaries were in Obras Sociales with per capita incomes from payroll
contributions of under $18 per month. ANSSAL easily had sufficient funds to use its subsidies to
bring all these beneficiaries up to a minimum floor of at least $18 per month. After the actual
subsidy distribution, however, 1.7 million beneficiaries still remained in Obras Sociales with
incomes (including subsidies) below this level. Over the past few years, several resolutions have
been passed that change slightly the criteria and process for distributing funds from FSR, but none
has resulted in the necessary overhaul of the fund's operation.
6.           Payments for high-technology procedures. Part of the recurrent subsidies that
ANSSAL distributes are used to pay for high technology procedures. In 1994, transfers to the
Obras Sociales for high technology procedures amounted to about $13 million-about $12
million for high technology procedures and about $1 million for treatment of hemophiliacs. Such
financing, in theory, could serve a very useful purpose for reducing risk to the Obras Sociales that
result when they have a higher than expected number of enrollees requiring costly medical care,
either because of acute medical problems or costly chronic conditions. However, in practice,
there are many problems with the application of this line of financing. The funds are only eligible
to cover certain procedures. While some are high-cost (e.g., bone marrow transplants), others are
relatively inexpensive, and it is difficult to understand why ANSSAL needs to pay for some of
these items (e.g., prostheses). Other expensive procedures, such as intensive care for premature
infants, are not covered. A review of the payments for high-cost conditions, within a review of
the operation of the FSR, is needed.
Capital Subsidies
7.           ANSSAL also transfers monies to Obras Sociales for equipment and buildings. In
1994, this amounted to $27 million. The rationale for ANSSAL to subsidize capital investments
of Obras Sociales is unclear. It serves as an incentive for Obras Sociales to provide services
directly, instead of contracting them out, and has been subject to abuse.
Hospital Subsidies
8.           ANSSAL transfers monies to public hospitals at the provincial (budget category
571) and municipal (budget category 576) level. In 1994, this amounted to $9 million. Again,
there is no strong rationale for ANSSAL to subsidize public hospitals, particularly as it is not done
in relation to the services provided by public hospitals to Obras Sociales members. Even if it
were, this could be dome by paying the relevant Obra Social. This category, like capital
subsidies, is open to abuse since it is difficult to develop automatic and logical criteria for the
distribution of the funds.



106                               Annex H
What Should an Overhauled Redistribution Fund Attempt to Achieve?
9.          The extent of the changes needed to improve the equity and efficiency of the FSR
depend in part on the extent of other reforms in the Obras Sociales system. Under limited
reform, whereby Obras Sociales members would still be obligated to belong to an Obra Social as
determined by their place of employment, the fund needs to be used primarily to redistribute
income from richer to poorer Obras Sociales, and secondarily to compensate Obras Sociales who
happen to have enrolled populations with higher health risks. Under the more extensive reforms
currently under consideration by the Argentine government, which involve introducing freedom of
choice across Obras Sociales, the second objective becomes more important, in order to reduce
incentives of the insurance funds to try to admit only better health risks into their enrolled
population. Regulation can address part of this problem of selection bias: regulation can require
that Obras Sociales take "all comers". However, if Obras Sociales are then not compensated in
some way for enrolling a higher share of bad health risks, they may go bankrupt, or will have
incentives for Obras Sociales to "risk select" in subtle ways, either through the design of benefit
packages or selective marketing.
10.         Under either reform scenario, measures that result in the merger or closure of
small Obras Sociales will help reduce the problem of risk redistribution. The larger the enrolled
population in an Obra Social, the easier it is for that fund to spread risk across its members.
II.         The extent to which the redistribution fund can improve equity and redistribute
risk under either reform scenario is constrained by the total funds available for redistribution.
Given the unequal income distribution of workers in the national Obras Sociales system, the
resources in the redistribution fund cannot come close to truly equalizing services provided to
Obra Social members -- this would require a much bigger base. The fund could be increased if
the percentage of payroll tax diverted to the fund were increased for higher-income workers. At
present, only ten percent of the social insurance payroll contribution is diverted to ANSSAL (15
percent for white collar workers). There appears to be little political support today for expanding
the base for FSR by increasing the payroll contribution share diverted to ANSSAL. However,
over the longer run, this measure could be reconsidered.
Operation of the Redistnibution Fund Under Limited Reform
12.         If the redistribution fund's stated objective is to be realized, then a formula needs
to be developed and strictly followed for the automatic and transparent allocation of funds to the
poorest Obras Sociales. The fund would serve mainly as a mechanism of equity; i.e., to bring
Obras Sociales up to a certain minimum level of income per beneficiary. Some Obras Sociales
would face additional problems if they had a high number of enrollees with above average health
risks, either because of their age, occupation, or other factors. The redistribution fund could also
be used to compensate Obras Sociales which had a population with larger than average expenses
because of these higher health risks.



107                                     Annex H
13.           If variables other than payroll contribution per capita were included in the
redistribution formula to account for risks for higher than average health expenditures, these
numbers would certainly change. As a first approximation, however, ANSSAL could develop a
formula for distribution based on income alone, and then test over time the desirability of
introducing other factors such as the age and sex distribution of enrollees. A serious constraint
will be the ability to capture additional risk variables accurately. The enrollment data base could
certainly be strengthened to include age and sex of all beneficiaries, and occupation and location
as well. However, capturing more detailed information, such as medical conditions, may be much
more difficult. As several countries have experience with risk adjustment, it would be useful for
the Argentine government to review that experience as it explores ways to set up risk adjustment
in Argentina.2
Operation of the Redistribution Fund Under More Extensive Reform ("Free Choice")
14.           If the government permits workers "free choice" across Obras Sociales, it will
become even more important to have in place a well functioning redistribution fund, in order to
not unfairly penalize Obras Sociales which enroll a high number of poorer workers, who bring
low contributions to the fund, unhealthy workers/dependents, or workers/dependents who
develop high-cost health problems.
15.           Under "free choice", the calculation of subsidies from  the redistribution fund
would change from average Obras Sociales payroll income collections per capita to individual
worker payroll contributions. In other words, the subsidy would have to "follow the worker".
This has important implications for the minimum floor to which the subsidies can bring income of
Obras Sociales. Under the present system, the Obras Sociales, with their captive populations,
pool payroll contributions and provide services to their enrolled populations. This provides some
income redistribution within the Obra Social. This redistributive function would cease with "free
choice" and all redistribution would have to be achieved by the redistribution fund.
Mathematically, a larger pool of subsidies would be required to bring workers to a minimum
income level under individual calculations than under average Obras Sociales calculations. The
redistribution fund that could bring Obras Sociales to a minimum floor of $18 per month per
2 Germany has implemented risk adjustment since January, 1994, in anticipation of its move towards "free
choice' across social insurance funds by 1996. The German risk adjustment formula is based on income, age, sex,
occupation, and whether or not the worker had ever been on disaility before. In the United States, several states
require that small group insurance markets take "all comern" at community rates and have implemented risk
distribution funds to compensate insurers for bad risks. New York and New Jersey, for example, rely on two
instruments. The first is ex ante demographic variables that compare the age, sex and family status of enrollees in
different plans and collects money or subsidies the plan acordingly. The second instrument is a fund that pays for
part of the costs of certain expensive medical conditions or procedures, such as transplants, AIDS, and low
birthweight babies. Researchers in the Netherlands have put a lot of thought into possible risk adjustment
formulas, but have little or no experience in implementation Colombia is also planning to implement risk
adjustment in its distribution of resources to competing health plans. Experience in other countries shows that
these ex-ante variables to measure risk can only explain a porton of variation in health expenditures. Some
combination of er ante variables and retroective payment (through the high technology fund) is probably best for
capturing risk.



108                               Annex H
capita under the average subsidy calculation is likely to bring workers only to a minimum floor of
about $14 per month under the individual calculations.
Information Needs to Support Refonn
16.         A major impediment to carrying out reform of the national Obras Sociales system
is the weak information base, particularly for enrollment in the system. There are many problems
with the current information base, as detailed below:
One of the biggest problems in the system relates to the number of beneficiaries. According
to ANSSAL, the Obras Sociales report about II million beneficiaries, but DGI statistics
(based on employer reports) only shows about 8.2 million beneficiaries. While one
explanation may be that the Obras Sociales are inflating their number of beneficiaries in order
to show low levels of income per capita and therefore more claim to ANSSAL subsidies, it is
also possible that there are problems with the DGI data base (e.g., DGI staff indicate that
information on number of family members, which is never verified, is very weak). Since
contributions do not vary by famnily size, both employers and DGI pay little attention to this
information. This information will be important for an overhauled redistribution fund, as it
determines the number of beneficiaries in the funds, and is the denominator of income per
capita.
*  Another problem with DGI statistics is that double coverage of spouses cannot be identified.
Policy reform to eliminate double coverage (requiring that contributions, either from one
worker working more than one job or from spouses enrolled in different funds, be unified into
one fund) would need to be supported by an information system that could easily identify
double coverage.
*  As some payroll contributions are passed directly from the employer to the Obra Social, they
are not picked up in the DGI information system. This would have to be corrected if the
redistribution fund were to operate on correct information about Obras Sociales payroll
contributions per capita.
*  Although data on age and sex of family members are not included in the current DGI data
base, such informnation would have to be added if age and sex were included in the formula for
allocation of subsidies from the redistribution fund. Over time, other variables to capture risk
adjustment would have to be included.
17.         The enrollment data base, at least at the level of the Obras Sociales, would need to
include family members by name, so that the funds could verify that individuals seeking services
were truly eligible. At the moment, there is no easy way for Obras Sociales to verify eligibility of
family members.
18.         Ultimately, the government would like the enrollment data base (or some other
informnation system) to have up-to-date information on all those insured, either through the



109                               Annex H
national Obras Sociales, PANI, private health insurance, the mutuales, or the provincial Obras
Sociales. Public hospitals would then have a mechanism for identifying if individuals seeking
services have insurance coverage, to enable them to seek cost recovery from insurers for services
provided.
19.         Improving the DGI data base seems to be the best alternative for strengthening the
enrollment data base (pad6dn) over time. In doing so, it will be important to keep the major
interested parties -- DGI, ANSSAL, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economy, and the
Obras Sociales, involved, or at least informed, so that the improvements made are recognized as
legitimate by these groups. The design, implementation and maintenance of the improved system
could be contracted out to the private sector. Even the maintenance of the system can be largely
contracted out, especially since DGI does not seem to be interested in carrying out additional
functions not central to its tax collection mandate.



110                                 Annex I
ARGENTINA
HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM
The Integrated Program of Medical Care (PAMI)
1.           PAM, the Programa de Asistencia Mdica Integral (Integrated Program of
Medical Care), is the health insurance program of the Instituto Nacional de Servicios Sociales
para Jubiladosy Pensionados (INSSJP), or National Social Services Institute for Retirees and
Pensioners. Although PAMI is known primarily as a medical insurance program for the elderly,
only 70 percent of its beneficiaries are 60 or older, and fully 6.6 percent are children under the age
of 14. PAMI membership comprises:
(a) slightly less then 1.7 million retirees (jubilados); i.e., people who used to work and
had their health care provided by the Obra Social to which they belonged (Obra de
origen);
(b) about one million pensioners (pensionados), who either have no such labor history
(e.g., widows and widowers ofjubilados) or who have received disability pensions
for work-related accidents and illnesses;
(c) about 741,000 spouses of retirees or pensioners, half a million minor children and
66,000 other family members;'
(d) non-members who still belong to Obras de origen, but are subsidized by PAMI (about
325,800 people, or 7.5 percent of all those for whom the INSSJP pays at least part of
medical care).
2.           The possibility of early retirement on the basis of years of service rather than age
further helps explain why nearly 14 percent of beneficiaries are between the ages of 40 and 60.
For purposes of the report, PAMI beneficiaries are referred to as "JyP members", even though it is
clear that PAMI membership does not consist exclusively ofjubilados and pensionados.
3.           The INSSJP was created in 1971, partially to compensate for the fact that the
Obras Sociales were not required to provide coverage to former members who retired or were
pensioned due to disability. While some Obras Sociales subsidized such members and others
allowed JyP members to continue coverage upon payment of a premium, coverage was at the
discretion of the Obras Sociales and, as a consequence, variable and incomplete. Although
1.    Retired members can extend coverage to parents, children and even grandchildren on payment of a
supplementary fee, provided that they are not members of another Obra Social and depend entirely on
PAMI for health insurance coverage.



111                                Annex I
these differences in treatment have not entirely disappeared, the creation of PAMI has successfully
created a "floor" for the coverage of health insurance for elderly Argentines. The major distinction
now is between: (a) those beneficiaries directly enrolled in PAMI; and (b) those who still belong
to their Obras de origen.
4.           INSSJP is financed partly by contributions from active Obras Sociales members --
although INSSJP is established on a "pay-as-you-go" basis (i.e., there are no individual health
insurance accounts), such payments effectively contribute towards their retirement health care
needs. These funds currently represent 5 percent of employee and employer contributions.
Recipients of pensions (for retirement or other reasons) also contribute, at the rate of 3 percent of
the minimum pension and 6 percent of the pension above that minimum. As a result, current
PAMI beneficiaries themselves contribute a substantial fraction of the costs of their own insurance
-- preliminary 1994 INSS1P budget data indicates that employers paid 31 percent of total
contributions, active workers 46 percent, and retirees 23 percent. INSSJP is financed partly by
contributions from active Obras Sociales members -- although INSSJP is established on a "pay-
as-you-go" basis (i.e., there are no individual health insurance accounts), such payments
effectively contribute towards their retirement health care needs. These funds currently represent
three percent of employee and two percent of employer payroll contributions. Recipients of
pensions (for retirement or other reasons) also contribute, at the rate of 3 percent of the minimum
pension and six percent of the pension above that minimum. As a result, current PAMI
beneficiaries themselves contribute a substantial fraction of the costs of their own insurance --
projected 1995 INSSJP financial data indicates that employee and employer contributions equal
76 percent of total revenues and retiree contributions 19 percent.
5.           INSSJP expenditures are divided among: (a) the medical insurance program
(PANI), which accounts for almost two-thirds of the INSSJP budget; (b) the program of
prestaciones sociales (non-medical social services), which represents 30.5 percent of the budget;
and (c) central INSSJP administration, which accounts for the remaining 3.3 percent of
expenditures. While the relatively low administrative overhead might seem to indicate that
INSSJP is fairly efficient, these figures do not reflect the costs of administering medical and social
services. In the case of the medical care program, PAMI personnel absorb fully 11.5 percent of
expenditures, while payments to providers of medical services take up 87.6 percent (60 percent of
the total Institute budget). The personnel share is much lower in the social services program,
which may indicate more efficient administration or may simply mean that "central" personnel
actually administer that program. The high overall share of expenditure going to personnel
reflects the larger staffing component (about 12,500 employees) of the social services program.
INSSJP expenditures are divided among: (a) the medical insurance program (PAMI), which
accounts for approximately 80 percent of the INSSJP expenditures; (b) the program of
prestaciones sociales (non-medical social services), which have declined to 6 percent of the
budget; and (c) central INSS1P administration, which accounts for 4 percent of expenditures.
While the relatively low administrative overhead might seem to indicate that INSSIP is fairly
efficient, these figures do not reflect the costs of administering medical and social services. In the
case of the medical care program, PAMI personnel absorb fillly 11 percent of expenditures, while
payments to providers of medical services take up 74 percent. The personnel share is much lower



112                                  Annex I
in the social services program, which may indicate more efficient administration or may simply
mean that "central" personnel actually administer that program
6.            Considering all beneficiaries, PAMI each month spends 38.7 pesos per capita on
the medical program, of which 33.9 pesos are payments to providers. Data from 1992 indicate
that about five-sixth of such expenditures go for medical services and one-sixth for goods, chiefly
drugs. Beneficiaries may co-pay part of the cost of drugs (ranging from zero to 70 percent), but
are not required to co-pay for services.2 While this per capita expenditure figure has not changed
much in recent years, it has varied considerably among the regional offices (delegaciones
regionales) to which beneficiaries are assigned: in 1992, the cost per beneficiary of the medical
care program ranged from a low of 16 pesos in La Rioja to a high of 76 in La Plata. Differences
in population size (number of beneficiaries) and composition (by age) and in the prices paid for
medical services contribute to this variation; so do differences in the avilability or utilization of
particularly costly services. For examnple, while the average length of hospital stay was 5-7 days
in most delegaciones, it ranged in others from 2.8 to 9.6, with much greater variation in the use of
certain laboratory and surgical services. Considering all beneficiaries, PAMI each month spends 47
pesos per capita on the medical program, of which 39 pesos are payments to providers. Projected
data for 1995 indicate that about 82 percent of such expenditures go for medical services and 18
percent for goods, chiefly drugs. Beneficiaries may co-pay part of the cost of drugs (ranging from
zero to 70 percent), but are not required to co-pay for services.3 While this per capita
expenditure figur has not changed much in recentyears, it has varied considerably among the
regional offices (delegaciones regionales) to which beneficiaries are assigned: in 1992, the cost
per beneficiwy of the medical care program rangedfrom a low of 16 pesos in La Rioja to a high
of 76 in La Plata. Differences in population size (number of beneficiaries) and composition (by
age) and in the prices paid for medical services contribute to this variation; so do differences in the
availability or utilization of particularly costly services. For example, while the average length of
hospital stay was 5-7 days in most delegaciones, it ranged in others from 2.8 to 9.6, with much
greater variation in the use of certain laboratory and surgical services.
7.            PAMI currently pays different subsidies per JyP member to different Obras
Sociales, for no apparent reason other than relative bargaining power and the variation in the
capacity of individual Obras Sociales to subsidize their own JyP members from the contributions
of active members. These values may also have been negotiated at different times and therefore
reflect different historical estimates of what it should cost to provide medical care for an average
2.     Nursing home payments are counted as socia rather than medical saervices, which is appropriate for
comparing PAMI expenditures and services with those of the Obras Sociales, since the latter do not
usually provide such care.
3.     Nursing home payments are countod as mocial rather than modical ercs, which is appropriate for
comparing PAM[ expenditures and services with those of the Obras Sociales, mie the latter do not
usually provide such care.



113                                 Annex I
JyP member. According to PAMI statistics, there are four general levels of the per-capita subsidy
(three, if two nearly-identical values are grouped), ranging from 29.2 pesos per month to 13.2
pesos. However, other sources indicate a considerably greater range -- for instance, the Obra
Social for textile workers claims to receive a smaller subsidy (9.25 pesos per month) than the
lowest payment that PAMI claims to make.
8.           Retirees and pensioners generally do not represent a financial burden - even if the
PAMI subsidy is inadequate to pay for their medical care, the active members of most Obras
Sociales have been able thus far to subsidize the medical care of these individuals. However, this
favorable situation may change as a result of the recent privatization of several Argentine state
enterprises, which has forced the early retirement of sizable numbers of people -- many of whom
have decided (as a result of their having earned higher incomes than the typical PAMI beneficiary
and their preference for better health insurance coverage than PAMI provides) to stay with their
Obras de origen rather than move to PAMI. The sudden conversion of these beneficiaries from
salaried status (i.e., fully contributing members) to pensioners (i.e., who not only pay much less,
but who now contribute directly to PAMI rather than to their Obras de origen) has provoked a
financial crisis for affected Obras Sociales. Examples of this phenomenon include the following:
(a) in the Obra Social which covers road construction and maintenance workers
(Vialidad nacional), retirees now constitute 17.7 percent of total membership); the
administration of Vialidad nacional estimates that the average cost of its medical care
program is 30 pesos a month, but the PAMI subsidy is only 17 pesos;
(b) in the Obra Social covering the personnel of the telephone company (ENCOTEL) 30
percent of members are now retirees or their dependents, largely as a result of
massive ENCOYEL staff reductions. The average medical cost is 36 pesos, versus a
PAMI subsidy of 29.2 pesos -- however, the Obra Social is able to receive that
subsidy for only 18,500 of its 27,000 retired members;
(c) in the Obra Social which covers insurance industry employees (Seguros), average
costs of 60 pesos compare with a PAMI subsidy from PAMI of 17, which is available
for only 11,200 out of 18,700 retirees;
(d) in the Obra Social covering state railway employees (Ferroviario), the Obra Social
now has twice as many retirees (including dependents) as active members and their
family members, also as a result of extremely large staff reductions.
9.           Because those Obras Sociales receiving the highest levels of subsidy cover almost
two-thirds of all recipients, the average subsidy is five-sixths as high as the top level. Therefore,
the additional cost of bringing all recipients up to a minimum of 29.2 pesos per month would be
only 5.02 pesos per month for the 180,000 beneficiaries currently receiving less than this figure,
or 903,649 pesos in total. This amounts to only 11.5 percent of what PAMI now spends on these



114                                  Annex I
subsidies to Obras, and to only 0.5 percent of the program's total expenditure. While unifying this
subsidy might temporarily strain PAM] finances, there appears to be no justification for not
proceeding in this direction -- indeed, PAMI intends to do so by mid-1995. On the other hand,
the financial consequences of paying the same subsidy to beneficiaries in Obras de origen as is
spent on PAMI members (an average of 39.9 pesos per month) would be much more serious.
Paying 39.9 pesos per month to all beneficiaries would require an increase of 15.7 pesos for each
of the 325,800 people covered outside PAMI, or 5.1 million pesos per month in total, which
would represent 3.1 percent of PAMI's budget. Because those Obras Sociales receiving the
highest levels of subsidy cover almost two-thirds of all recipients, the average subsidy is five-
sixths as high as the top level. Therefore, the additional cost of bringing all recipients up to a
minimum of 29.2 pesos per month would be only 5.02 pesos per month for the 180,000
beneficiaries currently receiving less than this figure, or 903,649 pesos in total. This amounts to
only 11.5 percent of what PAMI now spends on these subsidies to Obras, and to only 0.5 percent
of the program's total expenditure. While unifying this subsidy might temporarily strain PAMI
finances, there appears to be no justification for not proceedirng in this direction -- indeed, PAMI
intends to do so by mid-1995. On the other hand, the financial consequences of paying the same
subsidy to beneficiaries in Obras de origen as is spent on PAMI members (an average of 60 pesos
per month) would be much more serious. Paying the minimum capita of 12 to 36 pesos per
month for all beneficiaries would require an additional expense of nearly 28 million pesos per year
for the 325,800 people covered outside PAMI.
10.           Since PAM] provides few services directly (it operates hospitals in only a few
delegaciones), it relies mostly on contracts with providers. These contracts differ slightly from
one delegaci6n to another, with corresponding differences in the amount per capita that PAMI
transfers to a delegaci6n. The principal difference is whether the capitation fee includes complex,
high-cost services or not (in the case of the Obras Sociales, these are paid for by a subsidy from
ANSSAL). The transfer per capita does not depend on the age of beneficiaries or the
composition of the beneficiary population by category. Individual beneficiaries are assigned to a
family doctor (medico de cabecera), who is supposed to act as a gatekeeper, prescribe
medications and refer patients to hospitals or clinics as needed. Prices for services are related to
an obsolete but still-used price list (nomenclador nacionat), with adjustments for the overall level
or individual service costs negotiated with providers (often with medical associations or unions,
rather than with individual doctors). PAMI is probably large enough for its pricing policies to
affect the market, but not large enough to dictate what it will pay.4
4.     Although the medical care program has long been accused of paying too much for services and of
corruption in the form of kick-bcks from providers, there seems to be little or no hard evidence of this
practice. The budget restriction starting this year has been justified as a control on overpayment and
possible corruption, as well as simply a way to restrain total government expenditures.



115                               Annex I
Table 1: PAMI Members (Excluding Beneficiaries in Obras de orfgen)
by Age and Category of Affliation as of 5/31/95
Family Members
Age     Retirees   Pensioners  Spouses  Children   Others    Total
Group
<14          0       8,619        2   236,159   26,935     271,715
15-19          0       9,500     100   199,112   14,547    223,259
20-29        779      14,699    6,058    49,836    2,688      74,060
30-39      6,020      39,615   17,291    10,790      367      74,083
40-49     21,918      71,298   46,714     8,737      911     149,578
50-J9     91,693     141,580  164,965     3,822    1,281    403,341
60-69    588,424    270,254  311,528      1,126    3,350   1,174,682
70-79    673,923    294,509  160,171        148    4,658   1,133,409
80-89    273,782     166,037   32,988        16    5,397    478,220
>90      29,053     26,869    2,847        11    3,561      62,341
TOTAL   1,685,592   1,042,980  742,664   509,757   63,695   4,044,688
Table 2: Distribution of PAMI Subsidies to Beneficiaries affliated with Obras de Origen
Number       Percentage   Per Capita    Total     Percentage
of Obras     of JyP      Share of    Peso Subsidy   Subsidy     Share of
in Group     Members    Members    per Month    per Month    Subsidy
23          67,530       20.73       13.18         890,309       11.30
8          44,494        13.66      17.00         756,398       9.60
1          68,158       20.92       29.06        1,980,671      25.14
6          145,618      44.69       29.20        4,252,046      53.96
Totals or Averages
38          325,800      100.00      24.1848      7,879,424     100.00



INSSJP
Income Statement, 1994 aad 1995
1994          % of         8/1995           10/1995         Annualized
(Peso Million)    Revenue    (Peso Million)   (Peso Million)       1995
Revenues
Contributions from active workers                 2,03 1.3    72.8%           1,560.9           1,914.)          2,369.7
Contributions from retirees                        687.8      24.7%             384.4             480.0            624.0
Other revenues                                      71.1       2.5%             124.3             154.8            161.9
Adjustment for ANSeS Retention                                                                                   (369.8)
Total Revenues                                 2.790.2    1(0.(%            2,069.6          2.548.8           2,785.8
Services & Expenses
Health services & products                        2,384.4     85.5%           1.581.7           1,996.8          2,396.2
Social services                                    229.0       8.2%             132.4             161.5            190.3
Delivery cost                                      349.0      12.5%             205.0             256.2            315.7
Total Services                                 2,962.3    106.2%            1,919.1           2,414.6          2,902.2
Total Expenses                                        187.1       6.7%              73.1              90.6            158.6
Total Services & Expenses                            3,149.4    112.9%           1,992.2           2,505.2          3,060.8
Operating Income                                      (359.2)   -12.9%              77.4             43.6           (275.0)
Financial Results                                     (95.1)    -3.4%               67.4              71.0             71.0
Net Operating Income                                  (454.3)    -16.3%            144.8             114.6           (204.0)
Extraordinary Income                                    -         0.0%                                                                                 0
x
Net Income                                            (454.3)    -16.3%            144.8             114.6          (204.0)



INSSJP
Balance Sheet, 1994 and 1995
12/31/94        % *ur         N/31195            111/S 1/95
(I'eso Nlfliilhlz)    As!iels    (P'e.s Nlililihml)  (V'esot 1viiiilgl)
AS.SI I S                                                                                        AdjuslNtedi
Current Assets
Cash & bank linids                                   266       7 3u                33.3                31.9
Inlvestments                                        139.3    38 1o                97.3                 93.4
Credits & c<ontr,buti,ns duc                        128 6     35 1%               660 8               52.3.2
Suplie[li:                                            27       0 70u                22.%                2 4 2
Sub-total                                           2973      Xl 2%u              81.1.2              t17l 7
Non-Current Assets
Fixed Assets                                            68.5    18.7%                  52.1                52.4
Other Assets                                             0.3      0 1%                  0.0                 6.5
Iut:wal Nonil-Clililcilt A%sucs                        6O, (i      W)5.1                                                                                                                                 I-. 
lotal AsslsI                                       i6(6 I   1 0) (I..          (900. i              7 10.5
I iabiltitics & Net Worth
l.iabilities
Accounits plyable                                   317.4    86.7%                376.8               -150.5
Wages & social benefits                              29.2      8 0%'a               17.6                19.2
Tax Withholding                                       1.9      0.5'O o               1.2                 1.2
Provisions                                           50 5    13.8%                 51.1                48.1
Other liabilities                                     1.1      0.3%                  0.3                 0.2
Financial Ikchts                                                                     -I 12.S             .198.
Total Liabilities                                   400 1   109.3%4              8X9.4              1,017.9
Net Worth                                              (34.0)    -9.3%                  2.0            (287.4)
I'otal liabilities & Net Worth                        366.1   100.0%                891.4               730.5



INS SJP
Projected Savings, 1996 and 1997
A                                0                                                                                                                                                                               
i Ahorce a logar por el INSSJP IM0-199?
verson 4 (9.11.95)                                                                                           ___ _                           __                     ___
3
4c7   c  -m                          Month-_ __ __                       _ __ _
601asto ponurloencantS              Awrngp  =Monh  cot  _             Lae ft.mAffidet     ___           243,6000   243000     243000    243003I 43,00          23,916__ _0__0
7  mans ira   a                      Monthly Ss*50:
9   Rlemn ci6nki DALIPNP           Ambnonace Sswrc                   P5r,rTus                                                                                                                     00        80        120         20S200
88  1~~rsrapnne M~~~rtfl  _______ Pests or Trsrrst  Pest hr Trmost  -  ____- -  125     188        25J  --  313          375!  -- 438 --     -                       -25        698          50 4688
11  SGarts PAS]                      Gnansmr PASI __GerIatilc PASI                                           63        125__50-1                                   37         438j                   63562
12  SieAsoclmd6,J y P                SbsgbsuMtoAssoc oftRat & Pe       Sumbskksto ssecof Ran &Pr            9900        0         909 00    900          00        90!        90          0         900        900-       900   -900           10,800
13  ~pagoestMos                      Trawel lrJ&AP                     SIcalSesrcea-Other                      5 4 0              40- 450    45045                            40     -40           4s      4 O 450                   450        5,400
14  'Sc8ire  wcnrrrrce               Ecornorrc Sbsieds                 Ecm onosrc SoS1s1ites                     -        d10                           20          0,        40         400        4001       400        400        400        3,000
15  'Medlcemrwrto Ch. -Sa Crony T.F.    Medoatons - Snorhem Prov,Ince  Medicatios Annolatory Patets50                  500        500        50          00        50         50         501        00         50I         00        500        6,000
16  *Melcerrreteeyaaetesentoi.  MedicationrArhltrvalrt            edcSrstblsrPars70                                                  1,3(00      2,250     2,20       2,5250       5022250             2.2501     2,250      2,250      2,5
17 -Medicaaertos oncoDtgicos         Mdlicalloes - Cancer,eralssArroyPainsV -                                                                                                                                                    __-__
IS  'PAMl lyI y1(1)                  Plpychr66                         Crici eratient serwes         1iII
19 'Recreaddnry tsrm   _ _      _    ReaealtlcnsTwnrism                Rearsation &Twsicr                    6         8U          6 860                80686 0    860      860           680                  80         80860       60       10,320
20  'Personal                        Personnel                         Health Sensas Peronl70 - 7&                                70-         20        70         70         70--70'               70720  720                       720 1      8,640
21  'Personal                         PrrelSociant Services Personnel                                         80         8g0oU                            8           0         8          8          0I         8          08                     6
22  'Personal__                      Periroel      _                   AdnraninreoPro,atI800                           800         00        80Boo      800      -800         Soo80      800        goo g0oo080                       0         9,600
23  toeneent do isnidoc midics  MetScsi Corrlrsos   ~~Conitruts for Medical Servces                                                                         40        ,401 2,400            2,400      2,400      2,400 1     12:400
24  'Coesrrls de aleod6rr mid       Medical Corrlruds                 Contrlods ih UPI         -lj ____-___6___
25  'Connesiomsalls                    orepirec                        Hear Seo-c  - Reid                             840]10                            100        100        200        20        -200        300    -300 -         300         1,800
26 1'Pwrslnneradktdes                Non-ConrsboArg Pensiner           Conrads Ic wMedical Sersc.c         8,4006 ___            8,400      8,400      8,400      8,400o     8,0        8,4030     8,400      8,400      8,400      8,400      100,800           -
27  'Perrsnr,e gnacables   _ _    Non-Cnmnttshnt Pensioners           ICotsLaS With UPI              1     2,1001     2,100 1    2,100      2,100   _2,100        2,100      2,100      2,100      2, 100     2,100      2,100      2,100      25,200           OD
29 TOTAL DE ANORROS                  TOTAL SAVINGS                    j  ____                ___         14,873  -14,935    15,748  -15,60J           1r6       17,535    19,595    23,160    23,723Y   23,585    24,94 5I            1      238,145
31 GASTO NETO                        NEr COSTS         _I_                                              228,128    228,005    227,253    226,240    225,328    225,165    223,403          21980 29,278    219,115    218,053- 217,990    2,677,855
33  Vs DE AH4ORRO                     VsOF AV4S                           ____                 _             6 1        6.1        6.5        6.9        7.3        7.3        8!         9.         98         pI910.                10.3         8 2
35 (I) ahaon onto despo6t; de consida- ar o cApits de S 22 puar 753000 hencficiadsrio _________ 
37    __       _      _     _     _OTHER COST TEMS                         _     _      _     _         {         1                    ~        -~K~_
38
39 Seseance - IMAWNPtP               Seveance- DAMPNP                                                       7-200 7-27200                                                               7200
40 Sansrwnn - PAMI I & 11            Severance . PAMI I & 11                                                 -                                                                - .               _
41 Sevensince - COres                sewurcar  - Other                   _     __91920200_                                                                                                      _
42   _________                       Lost Dicoonts oedrv_rgs. Ocerl- Laborslrcrrr                             5          75       18         300        413        4I-43                                       4133413               413         3,938
43_                                           _          _                      __                    
44TOTALDSECOSTOS ADICIONA TOTAL ADDITIONAL COSTS   _                       _ ________ 189,275 -                        75 -      158       300        413        413   7,613  -7,613              413 -      413-    7,6133         413.      44,738
46 AHORROS NETO                      NET SAVINGS                                                          4 ,~403    14,860     15,560     16,460     173260     17,423j   11,985      18,548    23,310    23,473  -17,335         244598      193,408 
48 GASTO NETO NETO                               C ST                   __247____4__3 1228,14-0  22-7,440  22-6,5400   f28,740 - 22s,57i1  2i:0isI  227483    219,690   21,21225,668                                               1,4       2,2,9              :3
52  _________                          _______                   _                                     VALR   AHORRO
53 DELEGACIOIN                        POBLACION                         VALOR PROPUESTO                ACTUAL_PREVISTO



INqSSJP
Projected Savings, 1996 and 1997
A               IH                                   Q          R         S          T         U          V         W          X         V          Z    I 4           AD         AC    I      AD          AE          AF
-LAhorros a logar por el INSSJP 1996-1997III
I         vori6n 4(9Il 195)        I
3a
4L conceomoses                    Jbsoth
-5          I         ~           ~           ~         ~           _                                            _      _         F_              _      400       243000    2,1600    2,16D    2,16OD             2,160
6godspmo odlo onosto es          Awuo  othcstI24,0    243,000   243,000~  243,0001  243,0001  2430001  243,000   243,000   243,000   243.0001  243,000                                   --       2900        29600       296,0         ,1,0
'-Reofnmc*6oDAMPN                AumbulaocoSor                        1,800      1,800     1,800  __1,800       1,800     1.8001    1,800      ,10        1,800     1,8001 ___8D_         ,s        21,600       21;0        21,600      21,600
9 Refinrn in I6DA5AP8P           A-mbjhoco8o,nn                       1,200      1,200     1,200    -1,200      1,200F    1,2001    1,200      1,200      1,200     1,200,    1,200       1,200      14,400'     14,400       14,400      14,400
80 'Irmoojto p.do,O                Pathots in Tano                        500       500        500       So        50 1 0 1 0          500         500k       00       55000-6,000                                  6,000       6,000        6,000
_Ii 1Ge,iSIPASI                     OcilalcoPASI                          813        875       938      1,000     1,063_  1__125_ ____,20                    133        ,71       1,3        ,0        1,7          18,000      18,ODO0000
12  Sba Asdaft  y   Isadm t A~of et& Pn         -- 40-        9-00       900        900  9___0           900__     goo_       900 9__                        900  9___0           10,800      10,800      10,800       10,800
13 -pmgoodlod                      Tmvolcrf"JP a                         40    50 45 0    45 0    4                  50       4015 450                        F5  -~450           450__      450_       5,400       5:400$      5,400        5,400
14 'SLsbnldsocodow c                Ecsnomtic Sctnhllo                    400       400        400       400,       4001      400        400       400  - 400           400        400       400        4,800        4,800 1     4,800       4,800
15 'odiamefiosCh,StoC~   T.F MedL-.- S.W.  WIA        5    -             2,2 50     2,500     2S25        500        500   ___            500       50         500       300  --6,000           6,000        6,000       6,000
16  *Mod,camont psodnton ambtot    Modicatic Anftohtoy Pa6ont.          2,250     2,250  2__250  2__250_    2,250                      4.425     4,425     4,425 '    4,4251   4,425       4,45          .050__    53,100      53,100       53,100
17 9Modicamnno ooco6gico            LWcmisi - Cain                  L 2,000        2,000     2,000      2,000     2,000      2,000     2.00       2000      2.000      2,000     2,000      2,000      24,000       24,000      24,000      24,000
IS 'PAMI IIyII (I)                 Potydos                                                                    ____  I ___              1,500      1.500     1.500      1,500     1,500      1,50    ,00            18,000       18,000      18,000
19 nsRaod6o y toismn               Roacmhin & Tocdsm               [      860       8601       860       860        861       80         80        860        860       860        860       860       10,320      10,320       20,320      10,320
20 'Possca                          Ponmsol                               720        720       720        720       720        720       720        72   ~ 720,          720       720        720        8,640       8,640       8,640 1      8,640
21Yoisool                           Pononl                                 80        80o        8         80so       801        80 80o               so8       80'       80         80         80 ~    960            960         960 1        960
22 'Posoal                          Ponoosl                               800       800 I      800       800        8001      800        800       800        800       800        806Vj00              9,600       9,600        9,600       9,600
23 'Coosnin do Itnco6n Mm6c         Medical Contrad                      4,800     4,800      4,800     4,800      4,8001    4,800      4,800     4,800      4,80      4,800      4,800     4,8001      57,600      57,600      57.600       57,600
24 'Coosondsdoatnddomhdlca          Medical Contwm                            1,200     1,200120        1,0-I20 1,200        1,200     1,200      1,200      1,200     1,200                1201        4,400             14.40  4400        14,400
ZSCocrospossahan  Csnonpoodonco          r      300       300        300      ~~~~       ~~~~~     ~~~~~300  300j  300  30  300   300         300k       300       3001       3 600                    '60         3,0
26  YoPslnoogmadabtos               NonC-Coot,tohiPo.nmn                8,400      8,400 1 8,400        8,400     8,4001    8,4001    8,400       8,400     8,400      8,400 f 8,400        8,40      100,80       100.800 I 100.800        100,800
27 ronPoso gmadciobs                NosC-dbot,t   ,Pooabw               2,100      2, 10     2,10       2 2,100   2,00 2,100           2,0 2,100             ,100      2,100     2,100      200        25,200       25.200      25,200       25,200    -0
26                                                                   _____I 
29 TOTAL DE AHIORRtOS               TOTAL SAVINGS                     30,073    30,135    30,198    30,260    30,323    30,385    34,123  - 3,185    34,248  -34,310 1 4 373    34,435    387,045 -413,220    413,220    413,220
31 GASTO NETO                       NEr COSTS                         212,928   212,865   212,803   212,740   212,678 -212,615   208,878   208,815   208,753   208,690   208,628   208,565    2,528,955    2,502,780    2,502,780    2,502,780
33 % DE AHORRO                     1% OF SAVINGS                          12.4      12.4       12.4      12.5_      12.5      12 5       14 0      14 1       14.A      14.1       14.1      14.2         13 3        14.2        14 2         14.2
35(I) ahioffo nteto denpc&s do csosidao iot cipita do S 22 pai 75.000 heneSi                                                                                                                        -   -
38                                  OTHER COST ITEMS                                    j.~
39 S.nuoc -DAMPNP                   Sonroc- DA5SONP
41 JSosroc . Othiem                'Sostuc . atai                      __
42 1    _____________Lost Dbcourtomtsodl.                                 713       713        713       713        713       713      1,039      1,039      1,039     1,039      1,039     1,039       10,508      I 12,45     12,465       12,46~5
431 
44 TOTAL DE COSTOS ADICIONA TOTAL ADDMONAL COSTS                          713       713        713       713      713         713    32,239       1,0394    1,039      1,039      1,039     1,038      41,708       12,468      12,465       12,465
46WAORROS NETO                    N4ET SAVINGS                       29,360    29,423    29,485    29,548    29,610    29,673         1,884    33,1461   33,209    33,271    33,334    33,396        345,338     400,755     400,755      400,755   ~
48 GASTO NETO NETO                  SET NET COSTS                    213,640   213,578   213,515   213,453   213,390   213,328   241,116   209,854   209,7911 209,729   209,666 1209,604   2,570,663 12,515,245   2,515,25               251,4
53DELEGACION                      POBLACION                                                                    _ ____4F



120                             Annex J
ARGENTINA
EIEALTH INSURANCE REFORM
Pre-Paid Health Care (Las Pre-Pagas)
Basic Features of the Current Situation
1.          Voluntary insurance plans have taken a leading role in the Argentine health
system. There are over 200 pre-paid health care organizations, covering more than two
million people, with spending of more than 1.5 billion pesos. The 72 largest companies,
which account for about 70% of the market, cover 1,740,000 beneficiaries and report
earnings of 1.13 billion. Average monthly spending per beneficiary is approximately $54, of
which $39 represents medical expenses and the rest represents administrative and
commercial expenses and profits. Spending on pre-paid health care has quadrupled in the
past 10 years, and that the number of members and real average spending per member have
doubled.
2.          In addition, there are more than 3,000 mutual health care service providers,
who account for one million beneficiaries and spend an estimated US$500 million. Average
spending per beneficiary is about US$50. The number of participants does not appear to
have grown appreciably over the past 10 years.
3.          As a consequence of Argentina's particular combination of pre-paid health
care and mutual organizations, coverage under the voluntary insurance system is more
universal than in any other country on the continent. According to a recent publication,
Argentina is the only country on the continent where spending on voluntary insurance by
families bears an inverse relation to family income, which shows how widespread such
insurance coverage is among society's middle and lower-income groups.
4.          The system has evolved in a manner that complements the Obras Sociales
system, while mirroring some of its characteristics. It is a very heterogeneous system with
an enormous number of entities, extremely high operating costs, and poor transparency in
the areas of competition and consumer protection. Although its flexible structure no doubt
allowed the system to function dynamically at the initial stages when markets were being
created (as a marginal entity within the health care system), it may now represent an
obstacle to maintaining and developing the most integrated, transparent, competitive and
universal market.
5.          Market conditions have changed substantially, with a more stable economy
shifting the business emphasis from financial intermediation (during which time healthy
profits were made during periods of hyperinflation) to the current emphasis on organization
of health care markets. The dynamics of company organization have changed substantially



121                             Annex J
over time -- by the mid-1970s, 25 companies had been created at various times over the
previous 25 years. The pace of company organization increased rapidly during the 1970s as
inflation accelerated, and remained high until the end of the 1980s, when it began to slow --
only two or three companies have been organized in the past three years. This shift has
significantly diminished the entry into the market of new companies, which mushroomed
during the time of high inflation.
6.          Increasing competition is stimulating extensive modernization among the
most capable companies and posing serious problems to those which are not so well-
equipped, which have now started to abandon the market at a faster pace. Against this
backdrop, complaints by users have multiplied and many thousands of lawsuits have been
filed. There are currently no effective mechanisms to protect users from bearing the brunt
of increasingly fierce competition, nor are there solid ways of protecting the market and
preventing the inevitable, and healthy, departure of a few companies from triggering an
industry-wide departure. Companies affiliated with trade associations adopted voluntary
regulation codes several years ago -- however, evidence indicates that such voluntary
regulation lacks sufficient authority and cannot be extended to cover most companies in the
market. In addition, competition is so fierce at present that the trade associations are
unable to protect the industry as a whole.
7.          It can therefore be concluded that the sort of spontaneous expansion seen in
pre-paid health care is now reaching its natural limit. Protection of the market, with a view
to expanding and integrating with the health care system as a whole, may now be the
priority.
Principles Governing Regulation
8.          Discussions of regulatory reform  for pre-paid health care have been
frustrated to date by continuing polarization among interested parties. State has been
opposed to market, and regulated to free, as if a free market were not compatible with
efficient regulation for purposes of market development. Interference from an overly
discretionary bureaucracy is not the only alternative, nor is it the inevitable option form to
be taken by state intervention. All that is required is to set up a minimum system with clear
ground rules that apply specifically to the health care market and oversight mechanisms that
are as transparent and function as automatically as possible.
9.          There have been two kinds of initiatives in regulating pre-paid health care.
The executive branch, through the Insurance Superintendency, has proposed an extension
of general insurance regulation for the sector, without specifying the exact conditions under
which such an extension would take place or streamlining oversight procedures, which are
quite cumbersome. Sector representatives have spurned the proposal given uncertainty
about its content and certainty about the inadequacy of its form. Also, the attempt to
combine regulation of pre-paid medicine with specific conditions to accelerate free choice



122                             Annex J
within the social security system has placed regulation in political jeopardy. Another
initiative has been the creation of a Health Care Superintendency by the Senate, with a legal
and regulatory framework based almost exclusively on the features of contracts,
incorporating technical errors in the definition of pre-existing conditions, price regulation,
conflicts of interest, and contract categorization and termination, while neglecting the
remaining elements of comprehensive market regulation.
10.         Experience worldwide would indicate that the lack of clear ground rules can
stand in the way of strengthening the pre-paid health care industry, and that initial efforts at
voluntary self-regulation should give way to a regulatory system of a legal nature that is
subject to mandatory compliance. Such a legal system has in turn become an essential tool
for market development. US experience in this regard has been fully replicated in the two
Latin American countries with the most experience in regulating the industry: Chile and
Colombia. Through a process of trial and error, these two countries have gradually arrived
at precise ground rules to govern an efficient market, refining oversight systems to ensure
the greatest possible freedom in the market. It would be enormously advantageous for
Argentina if it took these countries' experiences into account from the very outset.



123                            Annex K
ARGENTINA
HIEALTH INSURANCE REFORM LOAN
Timetable of Key Project Prcesing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare                 11 months
(b)   Prepared by                           Ministry of Health
(c)   First Bank Mission                    March 1995
(d)   Appraisal Mission Departure:    :     June 1995
(e)   Negotiations                          February 1996
(f)   Planned Date of Board Presentation:   April 1996
(g)   Planned Date of Effectiveness   :     April 1996
(h)   List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs       Not applicable



124                                                Annex L
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of December 31, 1995)
(USS mililon)
Loan     Fiscal                                                        AMOUNT (le        UNDISBURSED
Number  Year       Borrower      Purpose                               cancelaibons)
Fully disbursed loans (44)                                                    5,361.2           0.0
of which SAUSECALIDobt Reduction loan:
2675      1986     Argendna      Agriculbtr Sector           350.0
2815      1987     Argentna      Trade Policy                496.0
2996      1989     Argentina     Trade Pollcy 11             300.0
3291      1991     Argentna      Public Enterpise Reform     300.0
3394      1992     Argentna      Public Sector Reform        325.0
3555      1993     Argendna      DDSR Support                450.0
3558      1993     Argentna      Financial Setor Adjustment    400.0
3556      1993     Argentina     Pub Enterprise Rf II        300.0
2641      1986     Argentna      Water Supply                                   40.0            2.0
2854      1987     Argentina     Power Distribution                            276.0           69.8
2920      1988     Argentna      Municipal Development                         120.0            2.9
3280      1991     Argenana      Provincial Deveopment                         200.0          108.5
3281      1991     Argendna      Water Supply                                  100.0           89.1
3292      1991     Argentina     PEREL                                          23.0            0.0
3297      1991     Argentina     Agricultural Sevices                           33.5           10.3
3362      1991     Argentina     Pub Sectr Reform T.A.                          23.0            1.0
3460      1992     Argentina     Tax Administration II                          20.0            2.8
3520      1993     Argentna      Yacyreta II                                   300.0            8.6
3521      1993     Argentna      Flood Rehab                                   170.0           26.9
3611      1993     Argenbina     Road Maintenance & Rehab                      340.0         217.1
3643      1994     Argentina     Maternal & Child Health                       100.0           77.8
3709      1994     Argentna      Capital Market                                500.0          500.0
3710      1994     Argentina     Capital Markets TA                              8.5            7.2
3794      1995     Argentna      Secondary Education I                         190.0          186.0
3836     1995     Argentna    Provincial Reform                                300.0         200A
3860 1)   1995     Argentna      Municipal Development II                       210.0         210.0
3877 1/   1995     Argentina     Provincial Dav. It                             225.0         225.0
3878    1996      Argentina     Provincial Bank PrivatL                        500.0         166.0
3921 1/  1996      Argentna      Higher Education Reform                        165.0         165.0
3926     1996     Argentina     Bank Reform                                    500.0         333.0
3927 1/  1996      Argentina     Mining Sector Development                       30.0          30.0
3931 2/   1996     Argentna      Provincial Health Sector Dev.                  101.4         101.4
3948 21   1996     Argentna      Forestry                                        16.0          16.0
3957      1996     Argendna      Social Protection                              152.0         101.4
3958 2/   1996     Argentna      Public Investment Strengthening                 16.0          16.0
3960 2/   1996     Argentna      Enterprise Export Development                   38.5          38.5
3971 2/   1996     Argentina     SecondaryEducaton                              115.5         115.5
TOTAL                                                                        10,174.6
of which has been repaid                                                     2,641.0
TOTAL NOW OUTSTANDING                                                         7,533.6
AMOUNT SOLD                                                                      12.8
of which has been repaid                                                        12.8
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                                                7 520.8
|TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                                            028 0
Disbursing SECAL, SAL or Debt Reduction Loan
1/ Not yet effective.
2.' Not yet signed.
1 9.Jan-90



.. . . ~-                                                                                                                                                     - -'-'I2-- -,-tS 
ARGENTINA
Statement of IFC Investments
am of December 31, 1995
(in USS Millions)
Fiscal                                                                                           Onginal Gross Commitments                    Heold      Hel
Years                                                                                           IFC        IFC                                  by         by   S cusitzad
Committed             Obligor                         Type of Business                         Loan      Equity       Paric       Totals       IFC      Paelt         Loan
1960195               Aondar S.A.                    Steel Products                          27.94           -       20.72    -  48 67       25.00     20.00-
1960              at Papelera Rio Parana SA.         Pulp and Paper                            3.00          -           -         3.00         -
1961              al Fadesa SA.                      Motor Veh. & Accessaoes                   1.23          -        0.28         1.50         -         -
1962              al Psa SAIC                        Petrochemicals                            3.05                      -         3.05
1965172          a*  Celulosa Argentine              Pulp and Paper                            8.25          -        4.25        12.50
1969              a/ Editonal Codex S A.             Printing and Publishing                   5.00        1.60       0.40         7 00
1969175           at Dalmine Siderca SAIC            Iron and Steel                          14.75                    2.25        17.00
1971173           at Calera Avellaneda SA.           Cement                                    5.50          -                     5.50
1977184186188         Alpargatas SAIC                Textites and Shoes                      82.93        5.00       36.50      104.43       31.37     24.86
1977/85           av  Soyex SA.                      Food end Food Processing                21.00                       -       21.00
1978v811182/87
93/94               Juan Minett S.A.               Cement                                  44.00           -       67.50       IIt 50       5.58      5.37
1978185187188191   at  Massuh SA.                    Pulp and Paper                           25.65       4.25        3.00       32.90
1979182187192    a0  pako SA.                        Petrochemicals                           21.00       1.15        9.00       31.15          -         -              -
1979/83184        a/ Atpesca SA.                     Food& Food Processing                     5.20        1.61          -          .81
1984/86           a/ Petroquimica Cuyo SA.           Chemicals &Petrochemicals                21.00       4.00       21.09       46.09
1986              at Atanor A.                       Cherrcals & Petrochemirals               7.00        1.00           -         8.00
1986                  Ropasa/Sadicar                 Capital Markets                             -        0.05                    0.05       0.05
1986/87           at  Sadicar                        Capital Markets                                      2.00                     2.00
1986                  ROB-Cattonni                   General manufectuntng                       -           -           -        0.00       0.06
1986              at ROB-Benvenuto                   Food & agribusiness                         -           -           -        900
1986             a0  ROB-Boldt                       Timber, pulp & paper                        -           -           -        0.00          -
1986              a/ ROB-Ctave Plast                 General manufacturing                       -           -           -        0.00
1988              a/ ROB-Cuyo                        Gener manufactunng                          -           -           -         0.00
1986              al ROB-Geverante                   Industrial services                         -                       -        0.00
1986              at ROB-Kiaukol                     Cement                                                                       0.00
1986              a/ ROB-Labelcor                    Food & agnbusiness                          -           -                    0.00                   - 
1986                  ROB-Longvie                    Generet manufacturing                       -           -           -        0.00       0. 8
1986                  ROB-Pilar                      Generat manufactusing                       -           -           -        0.00       0.06
1988                  ROB-Sudamencana                Industrial equipment                              -           -              0.         0.07
1986              a/ ROB-StUrsula                    Food & agnbusiness                          -           -           -        0.00 
1986              a/ ROB-Stani                       Food & agribusiness                                                           0.00
1986              at  ROB-Tage                       Industrial services                         -           -           -         0.00
1988                  ROB-Diario                     Timber. pulp & paper                        -           -           -        0.00       0.04
1986                  ROB-Piedra                     Mining                                      -           -           -         0.00      0.02
1986189191195         Benco Roberts BA.              Capital Markets                         48.00           -           -       48.00      20.00         -              -
1987              al Garovaglio y Zorraqun           General Manufacturing                    13.00          -           -        13.00 
1987190           at  Hidra Oil                      Crude Patrol. & Nt Gs                   80.00           -       27.60      107.60
1987190191            Temninal 8S.A.                 Port FacliUes                           12.50        0.00        0.00       12.50       4.50
1988              av  Aetra CAPSA Lindera             Energy                                 12.38                       -       12.38
1988             a0  Bridas S.A.P.I.C.               Energy                                  20.83           -           -       20.53
1988              al Arcor SAIC                      General Manufacturing                   12.00           -           -       12.00       0.00
1988                  BGN-Colortex                   Textiles                                    -           -           -        0.00       0.20
1 988             a  BGN-Estrelta                    General Manufacturing                       -           -           -        0.00 
1988                  BGN-lnterpack                  Timber. putp & paper                        -                                0.00       0.40
1988                  BGN-Noroeste                   Food & agribusiness                         -           -           -        0.00       0.10
1988                  BGN-Cibsa                      Textles                                                                      0.00       0.04
1988                  BGN-Motdeada                   Tirmber-pulp & paper                        -           -           -        0.00       0.20
1986                  BGN-Ofttlmologic               Timber-pulp & paper                               -                 -        0.00
1988                  EGN-San Sebasban               Food & agribusiness                                                -         0.00       0.20
1988                  BGN-Tevycom                    Industrial equipment                        -           -                    0.00       0.06
1988                  BGN-Valley                     Food & agdbusiness                                      -           -        0.00       0.10
1988                  BGN-Vandenfil                  Textiles                                    -           -           -        0.00       0.10
1988189               BGN-Flichman                   General Manufacturing                       -                                0.00       0.32
1988189194            Banco General de Negocios AL   Dev. Finance                            35.00           -           -       35.00      15.00
1988i92           av  Chirete Otl                     Chemicels & Petrochemcla                  -         6.82           -         8.62
1988192               Banco Rio deal Plate           Capital Markets                         50.00                               50.00      22.05         -          3.32
1988193194            Bunge y Bom                    Food end Food Proms                     63.00           -       57.50      t20 50       8186      47.92         3.84
1988693               BGN-Longvme                    Generl rmanufacturing                       -    -            -              0.00       0.08         -
1989              at Argentine Investment Company   Secunten/Finandca nst.                                2.00                    2.00
1989             a0  Chituidos Petroteum             Energy                                     -         4.98          -         4 98
1989                  Banco Frances Rio dela Plate    Dev Finance                             15.00          -           -       15.00       8.47         -          1.71
1989                  ROB-Carboclor                  Chemicels & Petrochemias                    -           -                    0 00       0.07         -
1969                  BGN-Cencosud                   Industril aervices                          -           -           -        0.00       0.20
1989              a/ ROB-Ciervos                     Food & agribusiness                         -           -                    0.00
1989                  ROB-Comesi                     General mnufacturing                                          -              0.00       0.58
1989              av  ROB-Maleic                     ChamiCata & Perochemls,                     -           -           -        0.00
1989              at  ROB-Maltena                    Food & agrlbusines                                      -           -        0.00         -          -
1989              at  Com. General de Inversiones    Finandca Services                          -         0.10          -         0.10
1989                  ROB-Fracchti                   Industril services                          -           -                    000        0.35
1969              a  ROB-Launt                       Chemcals a& Petrchwmicals                   -           -          -         0.00         -
1989                  ROB-Inta                       Textiles                                          -                -         0.00       0.56
1989              at ROB-Masoprano                   Timber-pulp & paper                         -           -                    0.00         .
1969                  BGN-Paraltna                   Chemicals & Petrochemicat-                                                   0 00       1.00
1989              at 9GN-Psstoril                    Food & agrbusineas s                                                         000
1989                  BGN-Genaro                     Food & agrbusiness                                                           000        1.09
1989/92               Astra CAPSA                    Energy                                  5C0             -       43.00       93.00      18.38      25.08         3.50



126                                                *4..4-   -e.&             ,
ARGENTI NA
Statement of IFC Investments
as of December 31, 1995
(In USS Millions)
Fiscal                                                                                      Cngna '0ross cmmtlmenis                     Held       Held
Years                                                                                      IFC         'FC                                by         by   Secuntized
Committed            Obligor                       Type of Bus,ness                        LOan      Ecuitv     Par.c       7hials       IFC      Partic       Loan
1989193              3GN.Bolland                   Sou,nsm                                   .                                0         0.36
1990                 BGN4-Algodonera               Textles                                                                    'IO       043
1990                 0IP                           Financiai Services                                  C 0a                  " C,a      0.08
1990                 BGN.Figotoba                  Food & agnbu,siness                                  -                     00        0 20
1990                 BGN-WVillmor                  Food & agribusiness                                  .                    5 Z0       1 09
1990;95              PeLroken Petroquimica         Chemicals & Petrochemicals            40 00          -       11 00       si 0       32 50      8.00
1991                 Banco de Credito Argenisno    F fancial Services                      00 S0              .              0 00       2.83        -          3.60
1991                 ROB-Gullford                  Texniles                                                                  C .0       0.33
1991                 RCB-Jugos                     Fod S Agnbusinsess                        -          -          -         0 00       0.20
1991                 ROB-Interpack                 Timber.pUlp & paper                       .          .          .         0 .O       0.67
1991                 ROB-Surfactan                 Cremicals & Petrochemicals                -          -          -         0 0        0.13
1991                 BGN-TBR                       Industnal equipment                       -          -          -         0. 00      0.29
1992                 Fngorifico Rioolatense       FPd & Agribusiness                     12.00        1 00       6.00       19.00       9.33      4.67
1992                 MBA Sociedad de Bolsa SA      Capital Markets                          -        U18           -         0)8        0.16        -
1992                 Oleaginosa Oeste              Sunflower Seed Agribus                20.00                  15.00       3500       14.16     11.25         3.69
1992             al Polisur SM                     Chemicals & Petrochemicals               -        7.00                    7 .0        -                         -
1992/93              Petrolera Argenbna San Jorge    Energy                              15.00      27.00       3500        7700       39.50     29.16
1993                 Alto Parana S.A.              Timber. pulp and paper                              -          -          0_Z0      19.47
1993                 Cadipsa SA.                   Energy                                15.00       5.00      2000         40.00      17.50     13.00
1993                 BGN-Capri                     Food & agribusiness                       -          -          -         0.00       0.90        -              -
1993                 ROB-Emprigas                  tndusonal services                        -          -          -         0.00       0.75
1993                 Ferroexpreso Pampeano SAC    tndustnai Equipment                    13.00          -       20.00       33.00      11.90      15 60
1993                 ROB-Alimenticia               Food & agribusiness                                                       C .  .  0.C0  0.55
1993                 MalteriaPampa S.A.            Food&Agnbusiness                      12.00                  12.00       24.01      1500       12.00        4.W0
1993                 ROB-Mendoza                   General manufactunng                      -          -                    a 00       0.75
1993                 Nuevo Central Argentina SA    Railroad Equipment                    10.00       300        15.00       2900       11.75      15.00
1993i94              Molinos Rio de la Plata       Food & Agribusiness                      -        3 00                    3 C0       7.82
1993/95              Brides SAPIC                  Energy                                55.00      2500       100.00      18000       73.79     85.00         3.71
1994                 Cervecena y Maltena tuilmes   Food & Agribusiness                   15.00          -       15.00       30.00      14.21     13.75
1994                 CIA Gen Combustible           Crude Petroleum                       25.00       15.00      40.00       80co       38.00     40.00         2.00
1994                 Empresa Distribuidora         Industrat Services                    45.00          -      128.00      173.00      39.38    117.33         3.75
1994             a/ Quitral                        Chemicals & Petrochemicals                -          -          -         0.00       0.00
1994                 BGN-Femrum                    Cement & construc matenals                -          -          -         0 0        1.33
1994                 Masisa-Argentina S.A.         Forest Products                       11.00          -          -        11.00      11.00
1994                 Arg.Equity Investnenl I Limited   Financial Services                    -       4.00          -         4.00       4.00
1994                 Yacylec S.A.                  Industrial Serfices                   20.00       0.04      45.00        55.04      15.49     40.91         380
1995                 Aceitera General Deheza       Food & Agnbusiness                    15.00      10.00       15.00       4000       25.00     15.00
1995                 Aguas Argentinas              Industnal Seruices                    38.00       7.00      134.50      179.50      4500     125.53
1995                 Compania Elaboradora de
Productos Alimenticios S.A.    Food & agnbusiness                  15.00          -       6.00       21.00      14.33       5.40
1995                 Compania Amencana de
Supermercados. SA.          Supermarkets                           28.00                    -        28.00      28.00
1995                 Kleppe/Caldem                 Food & agnbusiness                     6.00          -           -        6.00       6.00
1995                 La Buenos Aires Vida          Financial Services                        -       2.89          -         2.59       2.89
1995                 La Buenos Aires Retiro        Financial Services                        -       1.17          -         1 17       1.17
1995                 Maslellone Henmanos S.A.      Food & Agribusiness                   40.00          -      35.00        75.00      40.00
1995                 Maxima SA.AFJP                Financial Services                        -      14.19          -        14.19      14.19
1995                 Nahualsal S.A.                Industrial Services                   30.00       5.CO          -        35.00      35.00
1995                 Sancor Cooperativas Unida     Food & agnbusiness                    40.00                 30.00        70.00      40.00
1995                 Socma Americana S.A.          industrial Services                   24.99      15.00      60.01       100.00      39.99
'995                 The Tower Fund, L.P.          Financial Services                        -      20.00           -       20.C0      20.00
1995                 The Tower investment Mgr      Financial Services                        .       0.15           -        0.15       0.15
1996                 Gnumbaum. Rico y Daucon       Manufacturing                         10.00          -        5.00       15.00      10.00
Total Gross Commitments b/                                        1252.99    200.04    1040.61      2493.84
Less: Cancellations. Terminations. Repayment & Sates ct           589.83       11.79     365.77      947 40
Total commitments now held di                                      683.16     188.25     674.83     1540.25     871.A2     874.83       36.72
Pending Commitments:
R-E-C Toll Hway (AECSA)      Transport Service                      20.00       0.00      61.00       81.00
Aguas Argentinas             Water & westewater facilibes              -          -       63.00       83.00
AGUAS It                     Water & westewater facilibes           40.00       0.00     110.00      150.00
Alto Parana S.A.             Timber. Pulp & Paper                      -        2.50          -        2.50
Brahma Argentina             Brewery                                10.00       8.50      25.00       43.50
Edesur                                                              40.00       0.00      80.00      120.00
Empresa Distribuidora        Industrial Services                     0.00       0.00       8.00        8.00
Juan Minetti SA.             Cement6 construction materials         10.00      10.00      50.00       70.00
Terminales Port              Transport service                      10.00       2.00       0.00       12.00
Tucuman                      Infrastructure                          0.00       0.30       0.00        0.30
Temninal 6 S.A.              Infrastructure                         10.50                  6.50       17 00
Total pending commilments                                          140.50      L2Q       45Q0.5      567 30
Total Commitments Held and Pending Commitments                     823.68     211.55    1078.33     2113.55
Total Undisbursed Commitments                                       51.34      45.43      43.91      140.68
at Investments which have been fuily cancelled. terminated. written-off. sold. redeemed or repais.
0/ Gross Commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c IFC loan sales include participations & securitized loans.
d/ Held Commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investments.



127                                                              Annex M
ARGENTINA
KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
Macroeconomic Accounts - Prolonged regional crisis scenario
(In percent unless otherwise specified)
993    1994   1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001           2002    2003        2004
National Accounts:
GDPgrowth                                       60      71      00       20       30       35       40       45       47       50       52        53
Growth of picapita pnv consumpt                 31      51    (2 5)      0 6      1 1      10       0 9      1 3      15       2.7      3 4       4 9
GDP(US$bilion)                                2554    2796   2851    2980    3150    3341    3562    3812    4087    439.4    4733              5104
% Share of GDP
Total Investment                              184     199    172       173      177     183      193      204      215      221      223       22.3
Pnvate                                       160     176    151       152      154      159      16.7    177      186      192      19.3       193
Pubic (consoidated)                          2 4      2 3     21      2 2      22       2 4      2.6      2 7      3 0      30       3.0        3 0
NaltonalSavngs                                156     162    159       161      165     173      183      193      20.4     209      21.1      210
Private                                      136     153    149       143      144      150     158      166      17.6     179      17.8       17.4
Pu/ic (consohdated)                          20       10      1 1      1.8     2.1      23       25       26       2.8      30       3.3        36
Foreign Savings                               2 8      3 7     1 2      1 2      1 2     1 0      10       1 2      1 1      1 2      1.2        1 3
ICOR(legged)                                    33      30   (2311      100       67       59       53       50       51       50       50        4.9
Federal Public Sector (cash basis as % of current GDP):
Total Current Revenues                         123     129    123       125      127      126      12.5     12.4     123      12.3     123       12.3
TotalCrrrentExpendituresa/                     121     118    119       116      118      116      11.5     113      112      11.1     110       10.9
lnterest Expenditures                          1 2     12      14       13       15       15       1.4      13       13       1.2      0 9       0.8
Sodal Security Sawigs                           1 0     (0.5)   (05)    (05)    (0.4)    (04)    (0.4)    (04)    (04)    (05)    (OcS)          (05)
PE Non-Interest Savings                         0 3     0 0     0 0      0 0      0.1      0.1      0.1      01       0.1      0.0      0.0       0.0
Public Savings                                  15      05    (01)       0.4      0.6      0.6      07       07       0.7      07       0.8       0.8
Capital Revenues                                10      0 3     0 6      0 2      0.0      0.0      0 0      0 0      0.0      0 0      0.0       0 0
Capital Expenditures                            10G     1 0     0 7      0.7      0 7      0.7      0 8      0.8      0 9      0 9      0 9       0 9
Nonfinancial Public Sector                      15      (02)   (0.1)    (0.1)    (01)    (01)    (01)    (0.1)    (01)    (01)    (01)           (01)
QuasIFiscal Surplus                             01      01      0.1      01       0.1      02       02       01       0.2      0.2      0.2       02
OveraN Balance                                  1 6     0 0     0.0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0.0      0 0      0.0      0 0       0.0
Memo:
P;rmarySurplus                                 27      11      13       12       14       13       13       1.2      11       1.1      08        0.7
PnnmarySrrplus(USSM)                         6,954    2,962   3.571    3,517    4,402    4,431    4,474    4,563    4,616    4,666    3,687    3,696
Operabonal Prim. Surplus (USS M)             4,486   2.229   1,971    2.917    4,402    4,431    4,474    4,563    4,616    4,666    3.687     3,696
Interest Expendrlures (USS M)                3,076   3,403   3,958    3,797    4,753    4,888    4.975    5,047    5,138    5.233    4,246     4,309
Operabonal Prm. Surplus Coverage Rabo b/     145.8    65 5    49 8     76 8     92 6     90.7    89.9      90 4     89.8    89.2      86.8      85.8
Balance of Payments:
Exports GNFS (real growth rate)                 6.8    112    18.2       70       7.1      71       7.2     72        7.3     7.4      7.4        7.4
ExportsofGGNFS/CurrentGDP                       64      68      8.1      8.3      86       90       93      96        9.8     100      10.1      10.3
ImportsoGNFS(realgrowfthrate)                  114     195   (11.7)      5.0      41       4.1      4.9      5.7     6.0      61       5.9        5.8
lmports of GNFS/Current GDP                     8 2     9 2     8.0      8.2      8 3      8 4      8.5      8.6     8 7      8.8      8.9        8.9
Trade Balance (USS M)                        (3,668)  (5,805)   303     628    1,514    2,581    3,642    4,676    5,569    6,613    7,941      9,494
CurrenrAccountBalance(US$M(                  (7,154) (10,365) (3.496)  (3.704)  (3,673)  (3,257)  (3,703)  (4,387)  (4,609)  (5,442)  (5,669)   (6,505)
Capital Account Balance (USS M)              11,988  10,903    301    4,362    4,492    3,924    4,482    5,289    6,465    6,124    6,422      7,326
Public                                       2,997    1,924   3,557    864      573    1,345    1,755    1,652    1.570    1,725    2,877      3,458
Private                                      8,991    8.979  (3,256)   3.498    3,919    2,579    2,727    3.637    3,895    4.399    3,545    3,869
CurrentAccouit Balance/CurrentGDP              (2.8)    (3 7)   (1 2)    (1 2)    (1.2)    (1.0(    (10)    (1 2)    (1.1)    (1.2)    (1.2)     (1.3)
Debt Indicators:
TotalDebt(USSM)                              87,499  97,055  99,925  103,286  107,011  108,531  110.125  112,593  115,478  119,092  122,057   125,649
Foreign Debt (USS M)                        74,660  84.325  86,989   89,767   92,743   94,912   97,394  100,492  103,765  107,697  111,927   117,062
Domestc Debt (Fed. Pub. Sector- USS M)      12,839   12,730  12,936   13,619   14,269   13,619   12,731   12,101   11,713   11,395   10,130    8588
Total Federal Public Sector Debt             70,071  70,896  75,010   75,987   76.957   77,191   77,447   77,755   78,164   78,744   79,517    80,535
Foreign Debt                                57,232  58,166  62.074   62,468   62,688   63,572   64,717   65,654   66,450   67,349   69,386    71,947
of thich: LT Pub. & Pub Gted              57,231   58,165  62,073   62,468   62,658   63,571   64,716   65,653   68,450   67,348   69,386    71,947
Domestc Debt                                12,a39  12,730  12,936   13,519   14,269   13,619   12,731   12,101   11,713   11,395   10,130     8,588
Total Debt/Current GDP                         34.3    34.7   35 1      34.7     34 0     32.5    30.9    29.5       28.3    27.1     25.8       24.6
Foreign Debt                                  29.2    30.2   30.5    30 1       29 4     28.4    27.3    26.4      25.4    24.5    23.6         22.9
Federal Public Sector                       22.4    20.8    21 8     21.0     19 9     19.0    18.2    17.2    16.3        15.3    14.7       14.1
Prvate Sector                                6.8     9 4     8 7      9.2      9.5      9.4      9.2      9 1     9.1      9.2      9.0        8.8
Domesfc Debt(Fed. Pubic Sector)                5.0     46      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.1      3.6     32       2.9      2.6      2.1        1.7
Foreign Debt Service/Exports GNFS              46 7    48 9    53.7    51.0    50.7    46.9    48.2        471      44.6    41.8      38.0       37.2
Memo
IBRD Exposure Indicalors
IBRD DSOXGNFS dl                              3.5      3 7    2.5      2 8      25       25       2.3      2.1      1 9      1.7      1.6       1.4
IBRO DS/MLT Frgn Pub. Guaranteed DS e/        84       9.7     6 5     7 6      68       7 6      6.5      6.0      5.7      5.4      5.6       5.2
Pref. Cred. DSIMLT Fgn. Pub. Guar DS f/      24.5    27 1    23.7     256      246      26.0    24.6    23.4    21.9        20.3     19.5      17.7
Share of IBRD Portfolio (%)                   3 6      3.6    4.5      5 0      4.9      4.9      4.8      4.6      4.4      4.0      3.8       3.6
Money snd Prices:
Domesic (nofabon Index (annual -) g6            6.3     2.2     3 0      2.5      2.6      2.5     2.5      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4        2.4
CPI Inltabon IV                                 7.5     3.9    3.5       1.6      2.3      2.3      2.3      2.2     2.2      2.2      2.2        2.2
Real Exchange Rate Index (1987=100)            489     49.3   48.6    48.2    48.2    48.2    48.2    48.2    48.2    48.2            48.2       48.2
LIBOR Il                                        3 4     4.9    6.3       6.1      6.3      6.3      6.3     6.3      6.3      6.3      6.3        6.3
Mi/CwrrentGOP                                   59      64      6.2      6.3      6.4      66       6.7     69       7.1      7.3      7.4        7.6
a/ Includes Public Enterprises interest payments.
b/ Operatonal Pnmary Surpkus/Domestc and Foreign Interest Payments of the Public Sector.
c/ Preferred Credtors are Worid Bank, IMF and IDB
d/ Bank guidelines idicate ths rabo shouid not exceed 4% for hgh nsk, 5% for moderate nsk and 6% for lower risk counties. Argertina Is currenty classifted as a Ngh risk country.
e/ This rado should not exceed 20%. Debt service must be foreign publicty guaranteed, meclum and long term.
f Ths raso should not exceed 35%  Preferred creditors are World Bank. IMF and IDB.
9/ GDP deflator (period average).
h/ End of year
i/ Penod average LIBOR















IMAGING
Report No: P-   6851 AR
Type: PR



