Page  1
July 8, 1997
Mr. Roque Fernández 
Minister of Economy, Works and Public Services 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
Buenos Aires 
Argentina
Re:
Health Insurance Technical Assistance Project
Loan No. 4004-AR - Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Minister:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement for the above Project, as amended.
In response to the request of the Ministry of Health and Social Action dated 
June 5, 1997, and our recent discussion with such Ministry on the subject, we are 
pleased to advise you that the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement, so as to 
provide financing for the operational and administrative expenditures of UEC.
Consequently, the paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 of Schedule 1 shall read as set forth in 
the Attachment to this letter.
Please confirm your agreement of the foregoing by signing and dating this letter 
in the space provided below and returning the same to the undersigned.  This amendment 
letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  The 
provisions of this amendment will become effective, s of April 26, 1996, once the Bank 
has received one executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Myrna Alexander, Director
    Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Unit
    Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
/s/ Roque Fernández
    Minister of Economy, Works
and Public Services
Date:
October 31, 1997
Attachment
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
  Financed
(1)
Consultants’ services,
21,500,000
100%
technical assistance
and training
(2)
Goods
 3,100,000
100% of foreign
Page  2
expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures
(3)
Operational and Adminis-   400,000
100%
trative Expenditures of
of UEC
TOTAL
25,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Operational and Administrative Expenditures of UEC" means the 
operational and administrative expenditures of UEC in the execution and coordination 
of the Project, including, inter alia, inputs for computer equipment and office 
supplies.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower, for: (a) expenditures for goods and training, 
except for the contracts for goods governed by the provisions of Part D.2 of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement; (b) the services of consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent and the services of individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (c) all Operational and Administrative 
Expenditures of UEC.
