Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4004-AR
Loan Agreement
(Health Insurance Technical Assistance Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 26, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4004-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 1996, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
Page  2
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
(c)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "ANSSAL" means Administracion Nacional del Seguro de la Salud, the 
Borrower's National Administration for Health Insurance;
(b)   "DINOS" means Direccion Nacional de Obras Sociales, the National 
Directorate of Obras Sociales (as defined hereinafter) of the Borrower's Ministry of 
Health and Social Action;
(c)   "Enrollment Data Base" means the new register of members of Obras Sociales 
(as defined hereinafter) to be established under the Program (as defined hereinafter);
(d)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which begins on January
1 and ends on December 31 of each year;
(e)   "INSSJP" means Instituto Nacional de Servicios Sociales para Jubilados y 
Pensionados", the Borrower's National Institute of Social Services for Retired Persons 
and Pensioners;
(f)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and Social Action;
(g)   "Obras Sociales" means national social health insurance funds governed by 
Law No. 23660 of the Borrower;
(h)   "Operational Manual" means the manual setting forth, inter alia, the rules 
and procedures for the provision of loans to be made to Obras Sociales and INSSJP 
within the framework of the Program (as defined hereinafter);
(i)   "PMO" means Programa Medico Obligatorio, the standard health insurance 
package to be defined under the Program (as defined hereinafter);
(j)   "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed 
to achieve structural adjustment of the health insurance sector of the Borrower's 
economy described in a letter dated March 26, 1996 from the Borrower to the Bank;
(k)   "Redistribution Fund" means the Fondo Solidario de Redistribucion 
established by Law No. 23660 of the Borrower for the provision of cross-subsidies to 
Obras Sociales;
(l)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(m)   "UEC" means Unidad de Ejecucion y Coordinacion, the execution and 
coordination unit to be established and operated within MOH in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty-five million Dollars 
($25,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
Page  3
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nacion on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed. 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal 
to the 
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest 
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii)  `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through the UEC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate managerial,  Administrative, and financial practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than April 30, 1999 or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a 
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project's objectives;
(b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments 
thereon.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain during 
the execution of the Project, the UEC for the day-to-day management of the Program in 
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the UEC will be managed by a national 
director and the sub-units (for Obras Sociales, INSSJP, and policy and regulatory 
development) and the finance and administration section of the UEC will be managed by 
staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the UEC 
will ensure the execution of the Program in accordance with the Operational Manual.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower, through the UEC, shall provide the Bank by 
August 31 and January 31 of each year of Project execution a report on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the previous semester, said reports 
to be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request.  The report 
to be provided by January 31, 1998 shall include a section detailing the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof.
(b)   The Borrower, through the UEC, shall review with the Bank, by February 28, 
1998, the report to be provided to the Bank by January 31, 1998 and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Page  5
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such Year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has established the UEC in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and
(b) all action shall have been taken by the Borrower in order to permit the 
procurement of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the action referred to in 
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement has been taken and no other action on behalf of the 
Borrower is required for the procurement of goods and services in accordance with the 
provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement.
Section 5.03. The date July 26, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided by Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  6
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Obras
  y Servicios Publicos
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA 
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Alberto Jose Mazza
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants' services,    21,900,000        100%
    technical assistance
    and training
(2) Goods                      3,100,000        100% of foreign
Page  7
                                                expenditures and
                                                60% of local
                                                expenditures
   TOTAL                      25,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures  before  that  date  but  
after November 1, 1995.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower, for: (a) expenditures for goods and training, 
except for the contracts for goods governed by the provisions of Part D.2  of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement; and (b) the services of consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent and the services of individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent,
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to design and put in place a set of key 
reform policies for the Program; (b) to develop the regulatory framework and 
institutions for the implementation of the Program; and (c) to formulate and implement 
organizational and management change in INSSJP and Obras Sociales.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Policy Design and Implementation
 
Design and implementation of key reform policies for the Program, including, 
inter alia, development of the PMO and determination of the cost and financial 
viability of a new mechanism for financing low frequency, high cost medical procedures 
outside the PMO; redesign of the  Redistribution Fund in light of the new Enrollment 
Data Base; review of options for regulation of private insurers and preparation of 
draft legislation; and carrying out of other policy studies to
improve the coverage, equity, and efficiency of health insurance.
Part B:
Enrollment Data Base
 
Upgrading of the Enrollment Data Base into a unified information system and 
implementation thereof, including the installation of computer equipment, training and 
follow-up performance monitoring.
Part C:
Regulation and Supervision of Social Health Insurance
 
1.
Development and enactment of a new regulatory code to ensure adequate regulation 
of: (a) the quality of health care provided through the financial intermediation of 
the Obras Sociales and INSSJP; (b) the financial status of the Obras Sociales and 
INSSJP; and (c) market behavior after opening of the health insurance market to 
competition.
2.
Carrying out of a diagnostic study of ANSSAL and DINOS and implementation of the 
appropriate organizational changes, including the recruitment and training of managers 
and technical staff and the procurement and implementation of information systems.
Part D:
Preparation of Restructuring Plans
 
Page  8
Preparation of restructuring plans for Obras Sociales on the basis of a standard 
format approved by the Bank.
Part E:
Institutional Strengthening of INSSJP
 
Design and implementation of plans for reorganization and downsizing of INSSJP, 
including the installation of new information systems for personnel and budgeting, 
improvement of contracting practices, strengthening of the management of 
pharmaceuticals purchasing and payment, expansion of social communications and 
consumer relations, and outsourcing of two polyclinics in Rosario and its ambulance 
service. 
Part F:
Operation of the UEC
 
Provision of technical assistance for the operation of the UEC.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
   Date Payment Due 
          (expressed in Dollars)*
   On each January 15 and July 15
         beginning January 15, 2002
         through July 15, 2011              
1,250,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
   Time of Prepayment                     Premium
                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable
                               to the Loan on the day of
Page  9
                               prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                 0.20
   before maturity
More than three years but                 0.40
   not more than six years
   before maturity
More than six years but                   0.73
   not more than 11 years
   before maturity
More than 11 years but not                0.87
   more than 13 years
   before maturity
More than 13 years before                 1.00
   maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract and 
$3,400,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part C.1, the Borrower shall use 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
2.
International or National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract and 
$2,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
Page  10
With respect to all contracts for goods governed by Part B.1 of this Schedule 
and the first contract for goods governed by Part C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each and $6,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate. However, said exceptions to 
prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; 
(b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, 
as  reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
Page  11
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  12
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
