Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4002-AR
(Single Currency)
Loan Agreement
(Health Insurance Reform Loan)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 26, 1996
Loan Number 4002-AR
(Single Currency)
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 1996, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated March 26, 1996, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the health insurance sector of the Borrower's economy 
(hereinafter called the Program),  declaring the Borrower's commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof;
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in Dollars in two tranches as hereinafter provided; and
(C)
by another loan agreement (Health Insurance Reform Loan) of even date 
with this Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank is providing further 
assistance to the Borrower in support of the Program by making a single tranche 
currency pool loan as provided in said loan agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
Page  2
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, is modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 
and of these General Conditions.  Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall 
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures 
in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the  purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of 
the United Nations.";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
 
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Convenios de Adhesion" means agreements between MOH, through the UEC, 
and Obras Sociales (as defined hereinafter) for the prequalification of Obras Sociales 
as set forth in the Operational Manual (as defined hereinafter);
(b)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Enrollment Data Base" means the new register of members of Obras 
Sociales (as defined hereinafter) to be established under the Program (as defined 
hereinafter);
(d)
"First Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not exceeding $150,000,000 
to be released by the Bank on or after the Effective Date;
(e)
"Fondo de Alta Complejidad" means the special fund for financing 
infrequent, high-cost procedures to be reformed under the Program (as defined 
hereinafter);
(f)
"INSSJP" means Instituto Nacional de Servicios Sociales para Jubilados y 
Pensionados, the Borrower's National Institute of Social Services for Retired Persons 
and Pensioners;
(g)
"Letter of Sector Policy" means the letter referred to in the Preamble to 
this Agreement;
Page  3
(h)
"MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and Social Action;
 
(i)
"Obras Sociales" means national social health insurance funds governed by 
Law No. 23660 of the Borrower;
(j)
"Obras Sociales de Personal de Direccion" means Obras Sociales for 
management level employees;
(k)
"Obras Sociales Sindicales" means all Obras Sociales other than Obras 
Sociales de Personal de Direccion;
(l)
"Operational Manual" means the manual setting forth inter alia the rules 
and procedures for the provision of loans to Obras Sociales and INSSJP out of the 
resources referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(m)
"Program" means the program referred to in the Preamble to this 
Agreement;
(n)
"Program Committee" means the committee established by the Borrower for 
the purpose of approving loans to be made to Obras Sociales and INSSJP out of the 
resources referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(o)
"Redistribution Fund" means the Fondo Solidario de Redistribucion 
established by Law No. 23660 of the Borrower for the provision of cross-subsidies to 
Obras Sociales;
(p)
"Second Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not exceeding $100,000,000 
to be released by the Bank upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth or referred to 
in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement; and
(q)
"UEC" means Unidad de Ejecucion y Coordinacion, the execution and 
coordination unit within MOH to be operated in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred fifty million Dollars ($250,000,000).
Section 2.02.  (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in Banco de la 
Nacion on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment, a deposit account in Dollars on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  All withdrawals from the Loan Account 
shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice to the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account 
an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached 
$150,000,000 unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program;
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
Page  4
consistent with the objectives of the Program and with the fiscal 
measures for 1996, 1997 and 1998 set forth in the Letter of Sector 
Policy; and
(iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have 
been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that 
the progress achieved or actions taken are not satisfactory or that the Borrower's 
macroeconomic policy framework is not consistent with the objectives of the Program or 
with the fiscal measures for the relevant year or years referred to in subparagraph 
(ii) above and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved 
progress or taken actions satisfactory to the Bank or the Borrower's macroeconomic 
framework shall not have become consistent with the objectives of the Program or with 
said fiscal measures, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on March 15 
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the First or Second Tranche which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the 
Program, including any action specified in Sections 2.02 (d) and 5.01 of this 
Agreement and in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall, promptly after the respective dates on which 
disbursement of the proceeds of the First Tranche and the Second Tranche has been 
made, make available to the UEC for the execution of the Program resources equivalent 
to, respectively, $300,000,000 and $225,000,000; provided, however, that, unless the 
Bank otherwise agrees, not more than $350,000,000 equivalent of the aggregate of said 
Page  5
resources shall be used for the restructuring of INSSJP of
which not more than $150,000,000 equivalent shall be used for purposes other than 
cancellation of debts to financial institutions.
Section 3.04.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain during the execution of the 
Program both the UEC and the Program Committee in accordance with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the UEC will be managed by a national 
director and that the sub-units (for Obras Sociales, INSSJP, and policy and regulatory 
development) and the finance and administration section of the UEC will be managed by 
staff with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank; (ii) the Program 
Committee will be chaired by the national director of the UEC and will have a 
composition acceptable to the Bank; (iii) the UEC will ensure the execution of the 
Program in accordance with the Operational Manual as approved by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement; (iv) the UEC and the Program Committee will not 
authorize loans in connection with the first three reorganization plans of Obras 
Sociales to be financed under the Program and thereafter with respect to all 
reorganization plans of Obras Sociales involving proposed loans in excess of 
$10,000,000 equivalent, unless the Bank shall have provided its no-objection to said 
loans; and (v) the UEC will provide to the Bank on a quarterly basis a report on the 
progress achieved in the reorganization of all Obras Sociales receiving loans out of 
the resources referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement and on the progress of all 
aspects of the reform of INSSJP, said reports to be of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank may reasonably request.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall have the reports on the availability and use of 
the resources referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank and shall furnish to the Bank as soon as available, 
but in any event not later than four months after the date of disbursement of the 
First Tranche, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. The Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the availability and use 
of the resources referred to in paragraphs 2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and the 
audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
(b)
the Operational Manual has been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived 
without the prior approval of the Bank. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program; 
(b)
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank the Operational Manual 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank draft terms of reference and a 
draft contract for improving the Enrollment Data Base satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d)
the Borrower has issued the necessary ministerial resolution for the 
establishment and operation of a commission to propose regulations for prepaid private 
health plans.
Section 5.02. The date July 26, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Page  6
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y
  Obras y Servicios Publicos,
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250, 5to piso
1310 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121950 AR
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Alberto Jose Mazza
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
Page  7
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower:
    Group              Subgroup            Description of Items
       112                --                  Alcoholic beverages
       121                --                  Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                              tobacco refuse
       122                --                  Tobacco, manufactured
                                              (whether or not containing
                                              tobacco substitutes)
       525                --                  Radioactive and
                                              associated materials
       667                --                  Pearls, precious and
                                              semiprecious stones,
                                              unworked or worked
       718                718.7               Nuclear reactors, and
                                              parts thereof; fuel elements
                                              (cartridges) non-irradiated,
                                              for nuclear reactors
       728                728.43              Tobacco processing machinery
       897                897.3               Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                              platinum group metals
                                              (except watches and watch
                                              cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                              silversmiths' wares
                                              (including set gems)
       971                --                  Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                              gold ores and concentrates);
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party); and
6.
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
SCHEDULE 2
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
 
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings.
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
Page  8
(b)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
 
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
 
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
 
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
 
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings.
(a)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
 
Page  9
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; 
plus
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh 
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each 
installment shall be one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after September 15, 2011 the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
(Second Tranche)
1.
Out of the resources made available to the UEC upon disbursement of the proceeds 
of the First Tranche as set forth in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower has: 
(a) signed loan agreements with Obras Sociales in an aggregate amount of not less than 
$60,000,000 equivalent and covering at least three million beneficiaries; (b) 
disbursed not less than $30,000,000 under said loan agreements; and (c) cancelled not 
more than $150,000,000 of debts of INSSJP to financial
institutions.
2.
The Borrower, through the UEC, has furnished to the Bank a report on the 
availability and use of the resources made available to the UEC upon disbursement of 
the proceeds of the First Tranche as set forth in Section 3.03 of this Agreement
3.
The UEC has signed Convenios de Adhesion with Obras Sociales covering at least 
another three million beneficiaries in addition to those referred to in paragraph 1 
(a) above.
4.
The Borrower has issued and has furnished to the Bank appropriate legal 
instruments setting forth the rules and timeframe for free selection of health 
insurance services between Obras Sociales Sindicales.
5.
Draft legislation has been introduced into the Borrower's legislative branch to 
establish free selection of health insurance services between Obras Sociales de 
Page  10
Personal de Direccion and private prepaid health plans. 
6.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank a draft resolution or, if necessary, has 
introduced into its legislative branch a draft law, to establish a new regulatory 
regime for prepaid private health plans.
7.
The Borrower has issued and has furnished to the Bank the necessary regulations 
for the operation of the Fondo de Alta Complejidad.
8.
The Borrower has established the Enrollment Date Base. 
 
9.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank a plan (including a timetable) and 
appropriate draft legal instruments for institutional strengthening of the regulatory 
agency with oversight over the Obras Sociales and for the application of regulatory 
and prudential requirements to Obras Sociales.
10.
INSSJP has: (i) reduced its cash flow deficit by 40% (for the month prior to the 
month in which the Second Tranche is to be released) from the level on December 31, 
1995, without a net increase in liabilities; (ii) reduced personnel costs by 10% from 
the average level of personnel costs during 1995; (iii) reduced debts to service 
providers by 20% from the level on December 31, 1995 and to financial institutions by 
50% from the level on August 31, 1995; (iv) completed a study on the management of 
pharmaceutical expenditures and has started implementing it; and (v) completed the 
conceptual design of its reorganization and the letter of invitation for detailed 
design and implementation of the reorganization has been sent to the short-listed 
firms.
