Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C;              "I
Report No. 8106-LA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
FEBRUARY 6, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Region
This document has a restridcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 1989)
Currency Unit - Kip
US$ 1.00 - Kip 600
Kip 1000 - US$ 1.67
GOVERNMENT AND IMPLEMENTING AGENCY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRQNYMS
BCEL        -    Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao
CEM         -    Country Economic Memorandum
EDL         -     Electricite du Laos
EPTL        -    Entreprise d'Etat des Postes et
Telecommun catiins Lao
ERR         -     Economic ITternal Rate of Return
FRR         -     Financial Internal Rate of Return
FX          -    Foreign Exch9nge
GDP         -    Gross Domestic Product
HF          -    High Frequency (Radio)
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
ITU         -     International Telecommunications Union
Lao PDR     -    Lao People's Democratic Republic
LCB         -    Local Competitive Bidding
LIB         -    Limited International Bidding
MCTPC       -    Ministry of Communications, Transport,
Post and Construction
NSEM        -    New System of Economic Management
P&T         -    Post and Telecommunications
PABX        -    Private Automatic Branch Exchange
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditure
UHF         -    Ultra-high Frequency
UNDP        -    United Nations Development Programme



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
I.AO PDR
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PRQOCjSIRY
Borrower:              The Lao People's Democra* ic Republic (Lao PDR).
Beneficiary:           Entreprise d' Etat des Postes et Telecommunications Lao (EPTL).
Amount:                SDR 19.1 million (US$24.5 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard IDA Terms with 40 years maturity.
Onlending Terms:       Proceeds of the IDA credit, along with financing from other
sources, will be passed on by the Government to EPTL as a
mixture of equity (US$9.3 million, 38%) and loan (US$15.2
million, 62X); the terms of the loan are: 8% interest, 20
years, including 5 years of grace; EPTL will bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Pr2oect Objectives:   The objectives of the proposed Project are to: (a) carry out
priority investments in the sector, particularly the first
phase of a nation-wide digital telephone network, and improve
irnternational telecommunications services; (b) strengthen
EPTL's capabilities in the areas of planning, project
implementation,  operations,  maintenance  and   financial
management; and (c) develop EPTL's human resources.
Project Description:  The proposed Project is an integral part of EPTL's  ectoral
Telecommunications Investment Program 1990-95 (the Program)
and will include the following components: (a) installation of
automatic digital telephone exchanges in Vientiane and five
provincial capitals with a capacity of 15,000 lines; (b)
construction of local cable networks, subscriber connections
and installation of public call facilities in the six cities;
(c) installation of a backbone network of digital microwave
links, connecting all new telephone exchanges; existing
HF-radio links will be relocated into regions with lower
traffic demand; and (d) training and technical assistance to
strengthers EPTL's project implementation and operations
capabilities. To assist in project implementation, training,
institutional and financial development, EPTL w-ill employ
consultants which are presently assisting in detailed design
and preparation of tender docume.itation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits:              The Program represents an important first step in the Govern-
ment's strategy of national integration and simultaneous
economic decentralization through improved telecommulications
infrastructure.    It will help  develop  a comprehensive,
integrated, nationwide network, providing the critical
backbone from north to south. It will significantly improve
telecommunications services (including automatic access to
international networks) to about 5,200 existing Lelephone sub-
scribers and provide services to about 9,500 new subscribers
in six major locations throughout the country. Redeployment
of existing HF equipment will benefit other provinces. The
Program is expected to yield an economic rate of return of
about 13X.
Risks:                 The major project risk is that implementation may be slower
than expected because of EPTL's weak implementation
capabilities.   The proposed Project includes measures to
mitigate this risk: (a) a substantial program of technical
assistance (including project management) and training of EPTL
staff; (b) early appointment of project implementation
consultants; and (c) structuring of procurement around a small
number of packages which can be awarded on a turn-key basis.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs:                               Local  Foreign   otal
--- (US$ million)----
Telephone exchanges                                     0.0     9.9      9.9
Transmission                                            0.9     8.7      9.6
Outside Cable Plant                                     0.6      7.5     8.1
Ancillary Equipment                                     0.0     0.9      0.9
Buildings                                               0.3     0.3      0.6
Project Management & TA                                 0.3     2.3      2.6
Training                                                0.1     0.6      0.7
Total Base Cost                                  __   30.2    32.4
Physical contingencies                                  0.2     1.5      1.7
Price contingencies                                     0.3     4.2      4.5
Total Prolect Cost                               2.7    35.9    38.6
Interest During Construction                            2.2     0.6      2.8
Total Financing Reauired                                 36.5    41.4
Project Financing Plan:
IDA                                                     1.4    23.1    24.5
UlDr.p                                                  0.1     1.1      1.2
Japanese Government Grant                               0.0    11.7    11.7
EPTL                                                    LA2    0.6       4.0
Total Financing                                  4.      3.      41
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA El                  1221  12   1993  1994  1995  1996  19.7
-------------(US$ million)--------------
Annual                    1.0   2.7   4.1   4.9   3.7   4.7   3.4
Cuaulative               1.0   3.7   7.8  12.7  16.4  21.1  24.5
Rate of Return:    13X
Map:L              IBRD No. 21 898
A Based or, an Exchange Rate of Kip 600 - US$1.00; the Project is exempt from
duties and taxes.



SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .i................... . .
I. INTRODUCTION .1.. .  .  .  .  . .                               1
II.  ECONOMIC BACKGROUND  ........  ..  ...  .  ...... . .
III.  THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Sector Organization ...................   2
Existing Facilities ...................   3
Quality of Service  ...................   3
Access to and Usage of Service  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Demand for Service  ...................   4
Sector Constraints  ...................    5
Government Objectives and Strategy for the Sector . . . . .  5
Ban': Group's Experience in the Sector . . . . . . . . . .  5
Rationale for IDA Involvement in the Proposed Project . . .  6
IV.  THE BENEFICIARY - EPTL .....................   7
Responsibilities    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Human Resources and Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Technical Assistance  ...................   8
Financial Management and Accounting System  . . . . . . . .  8
Billing and Collection  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Audit.10. ................. 
Performance Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
V.  THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 11
Introduction  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   i .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 11
Investment Program 1990-95: Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . 11
Investment Program 1990-95: Description . . . . . . . . . . 11
The Proposed Project  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 12
Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Project  Cost    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    13
Project Financing and Terms ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 14
Retroactive Financing ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 16
Status of Preparation ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 16
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Procurement ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 16
Disbursements ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 18
Performance Indicators, Project Monitoring, Auditing, and
Reporting ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Lao PDR in
July/August 1989, comprising Christian Duvigneau (Task Manager), David
Delgado (Telecommunications Engineer), and Aldo Baietti (Consultant).



- ii -
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .    .... ..................   20
Introduction    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   20
Past Financial Performance: EPTL Consolidated . . . . . . . 20
Past Financial Performance: Telecom. Operations . . . . . . 22
Valuation of Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Tarifts   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    23
Projected Financial Performance. Telecom. Operations  . . . 24
Strategy  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    24
Assumptions   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   24
Projected Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Financing, Exchange Risk and Debt Service Coverage  . . . . 26
Dividends ..........   ..............                          .  27
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ........ ..                                        27
Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .    27
Resource Mobilization ......  .   ........  ..  .   .  27
Return on Investment  ......    .........  ..  .   .  28
Least-Cost Solution .......            . .........  ..   .  29
Environmental and Health Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Project  Risks   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   30
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Agreements Reached duriag Negotiations  . . . . . . . . . . 31
Undertakings Obtained during Negotiations . . . . . . . . . 31
Conditions of Effectiveness .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  32
Recommendation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32



-iii -
Pag-e No.
LIST OF ANNEXES
3.1   Telecommunications Facilities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
3.2  Historic Telecommunications Data . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
3.3   International Traffic, 1987-88 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
3.4  Capacity and Traffic Projections 1989-95 . . . . . . . . .39
4.1   EPTL Present and Proposed Organization Chart . . . . . . .40
4.2  EPTL Staff by Category . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42
4.3   Outline of Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance . .43
4,4  Program for Reducing Accounts Receivable . . . . . . . . .47
5.1  Program and Project Components ............. . 52
5.2   Program and Project Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .54
5.3  Detailed Financing Plan ................ . 55
5.4   Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .56
5.5  Goods and Services to be Procured  . . . . . . . . . . . .57
5.6   Schedule of Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60
5.7   Performance Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .61
5.3   Supervision Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .63
6.1  Historic Financial Data (Consolidated) . . . . . . . . . .65
6.2  Historic Financial Data (Telecommunications) . . . . . . .68
6.3  Historic Financial Data (Postal Ser.'.ce) . . . . . . . . .69
i.4   Teleco'-nications Tariffs . i . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
6.5  Assumption for Financial Projections . . . . . . . . . . .72
6.6  Financial Projections  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .75
7.1  Return on Investment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .81
8.1   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File 83
Map: IBRD No. 21898



LAO PDR
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        The Govcrnment of the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR)
has requested continued IDA assistance with the development of the country's
telecommunications network over the period 1990-95. Following major reform
measures of the Government towards a more open, decentralized and liberal
economy, started in 1986, the inadequacy of telecommunications services
throughout the country has become a major constraint on its efficient and
effective development, whereas actual telecommunicaticns traffic has grown
dramatically on a basically obsolete system.   Services provided by the
recently formed Entreprise d'Etat des Postes et Telecommunications Lao (EPTL)
are inadequate to meet rapidly rising demand from Government, business,
residential and rural sectors. Quality of both domestic and international
services  is poor.   Key constraints  to efficient sector operation and
developmen-t have been (a) an inadequate institutional ervironment, (b) aged
equipment in need of modernization and/or rehabilitation, and (c) severe
under-investment in the sector due to limited resources and relatively low
sector priority in the past, as well as ineflicient procurement practices.
1.02        The first two of these constraints were addressed with IDA
support under the Telecommunications Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 1684-LA. approved in March 1986), now under implementation
(para. 3.12).  During preparation of that project, EP'TL was created as an
autonomous public sector enternrise and is being developed through technical
assistance and training. Limited improvement of certain HF-radio links, and
marginal rehabilitation of existing crossbar telephone exchanges are also
-.cluded. However, the rapidly rising demand for telecommunications services
under. the new policies since 1986 has led the Government to place increased
priority on the sector's development, and to address the above third
constraint through major sectoral investments supported by outside sources.
1.03        Thus, EPTL, assisted by consultants under the first project, has
accelerated the development of a substantial Telecommunications Investment
Program 1990-95 (the Program) which will implement the firs- phase of a
nation-wide telecommunications network. The Program will catapult EPTL from
a small company with assets of less than US$3 million equivalent at the end
of 1988 to a major public service company with assets of over US$51 million
and annual revenues of about US$7 milliorn by 1995.   The proposed Second
Telecommunications Project forms an integral part of the Program.
II. ECONOMIC BACRKGROUND
2.01        The Lao PDR, a landlocked country in Indochina, has one of the
lowest per capita incomes (about US$180 in 1988) in the world; its economy
is largely based on subsistence farming.! Large in surface (two-and-a half
times as large as Korea), but small in population (about four million people
I/     See Lao Feople's Democratic Republic, Country Economic
Memorandum, World Bank Report No.7188-LA, September 1988.



-2-
in  1988),  it has  an  extremely  low  population  density.    This  makes              L
infrastructure investments costly and of relatively low return.   A more
extensive exploitation of the country's generous natural resources has been
constrained by the mountainous terrain, difficult access to foreign markets,
and lack of know-how and funding.   Lack of infrastructure, particularly
transport and telecommunications, has severely compounded these problems.
2.02        In November 1986, the Government introduced a New System of
Economic Management (NSEM), under which it committed itself to a signiftcant
liberalization and opening of the economy. The NSEM is intended to introduce
new vigor into the national economic performance which was stagnant during
the first half of the 1980s.   It is considered an integral part of the
Government's development strategy and reflects the recognition that con-
trolled planning should give vay to a more flexible system of indicative
planning and decentralizei economic management. Under the NSEM, a number of
important reforms ha-ve been undertaken, notably (a) the unification of
exchange rates and major devaluation of the country's currency (the Kip), (b)
an almost compLite elimination of price controls, (c) a substantial
liberalization of domestic and international trade, (d) provision of
increased managerial and financial autonomy to public sector enterprises, and
(e) encouragement of the private sector. The reforms were designed to bring
about greater efficiency and profitability in economic enterprises by
affording them a much greater degree of freedom of action.  A Structural
Adjustment Credit (Credit 2037-IA), approved in May 1989, is supporting tls
Government's efforts towards reform. Increased economic activity, resulting
from the liberalization, has led to significantly increased demand for
telecommunications. In addition. efficient telecommunications and transport
infrastructure is needed which would link the country's northern, central
and southern regions, to overcome the segmentation of the economy into
several small markets.
III. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Sector Organization
3.01        Domestic and international posts atciL telecommunications (P&T)
services in the country are developed, operated and managed by EPTL under
the supervision and control of the Ministry of Communications, Transport,
Post and Construction (MCTPC). MCTPC supervises the sector through a Vice
Minister for P&T. From 1975 to 1982, P&T services were an integral part of
each provincial administration.   In 1982, they were reorganized into 17
autonomous provincial P&T enterprises, each one headed by a director
reporting both to the provincial administration and directly to the Vice
Minister for P&T. Under the ongoing IDA-supported Project, the 17 provincial
units were merged into a single, autonomous state ent rprise, EPTL, which xas
legally established on January 1, 1986. Its statutes and internal regula-
tions were approved by MCTPC on May 13, 1987. EPTL is dtscussed in detail
in chapter IV.
3.02        Most piivate and public sector requirements for telecommunica-
tions services are met by EPTL's network, although some entities (e.g., the
national power company, air transportation aid defense) operate private radio



- 3 -
circuits under license from MCTPC. Radio and television are operated by the
National Committee of Press, Radio BroadcastiVg and Television.
Existing Facilities
3.03        As of June 30, 1989, the total telephone exchange capacity
installed in 17 automatic exchanges and 67 manual exchanges was 8,500 lines,
87X of which are automatic lines, with 6,500 lines connected. V'entiane,
served by conventional electro-meehanical exchanges, has an installed
capacity of 5,25( lines (62X of total+, and 4,500 connectad lines (S92 of
total). The exis.ing plant and equipment are very old and largely obsolete.
Unavailability of spares prevents the utilization of full capacity.   The
local cable distribution network is partly underground, but essentially
consists of open wire lines, generally in very poor condition. Telephone
service in main population centers is based on automatic exchanges,
interconnected, however, by manually-operated high-frequency (HF) radio
links. International telecommunications are provided through four outlets:
an HF link with Hong Kong, a microwave link with Bangkok, and satellite links
with Hanoi and Moscow, all of them manually operated. International telex
service is available in Vientiane only, through a manual exchange with
capacity for 190 lines, of which 130 lines have been out of service since
1980 due to the lack of parts and accessories. Domestic and international
telegraph service is available in about 100 towns, but telegrams are
transmitted manually by Morse code on HF-radio systems using diverse
equipment operated on a shared-time basis.    Public  telecommunications
facilities across the country are shown in nnex 3.1.
Ouality of Service
3.04        As yet, there are no reliable statistics on fault rates and
service quality indicators, although this is being addressed under the
ongoing IDA project. However, practical experience with using the system
indicates that the quality of service is very poor. Equipment malfunctions
and system congestion cause high rates of failure in local (intra-urban),
interprovincial and international telephone calls, as well as in telex calls.
Telegrams contain many errors in transmission. The unacceptably poor quality
of service is mainly caused by: (a) outdated and often obsolete equipment;
(b) lack of spare parts and tools; (c) poor maintenance; (d) practical non-
availability of high quality local, long distance, and international
facilities; and (e) virtually no traffic management. Under the first IDA
Credit, EPTL is attempting to marginally improve existing facilities and to
build up the necessary database which will allow a focused maintenance and
operations program. Under the proposed Project, EPTL would replace obsolete
equipment, introduce modern digital technology, systematize maintenance and
introduce standard traffic management.
Access to and Usage of Service
3.05        The average telephone density in LAO PDR of only 0.16 lines per
100 population is among the lowest in the world, although comparable with
that of countries with similar per capita income (eg. Nepal and Burundi).
But the quality of service in Lao PDR is considerably worse due to
insignificant investments in the recent past as compared with those
countries. Limited telephone service is available in all provincial capitals



- 4 -
and other 66 minor towns. The number of public phones has declined due to
lack of spares. Domestic telephone traffic, in practice, is limited to local
calls, since the poor quality of HF-links between cities virtually pzevents
sizeable interprovincial traffic from materializing. Even with the new HF
systems being installed under the first IDA project, the domestic long-
distance telephone traffic will remain very limited. Instead, telegrams are
used widely. International calls, via the limited facilitics available, are
possible only from and to Vientiane, have to be booked through an operator,
and encounter long delays. While telex could be a substitute, its extremely
limited   effective   capacity   prevents   wide   use   for   international
communications.   Data on historic capacities, subscriber numbers, traffic
flows, and revenues are shown in Qpnex 3.2.
3.06        In spite of the extreme limitations of the existing network,
growth of traffic has been significant and in some cases exceptionally large.
As can be seen in Annex 3.2, annual growth rates of several traffic
categories have exceeded 25% between 1985 and 1988, reflecting the rising
demand for service since the introduction of economic reforms.   In the
domestic traffic categories, the long distance telephone traffic has shown
exceptional growth (70%), albeit from a very low base. As a result of the
opening of the country to the rest of the world, international traffic growth
has also been significant (telephone: 26%, telex: 22X, and telegram: 7X p.a.,
respectively) in spite of the poor service quality. International traffic
in 1988  accounted for  59Z of EPTL's  operational  r-venues.    Detailed
distribution of traffic over the available links, and from and to major
destinations, is shown in Annex 3.3.   According to that data, telephone
traffic to and via Bangkok represents over 80% of total international
traffic, due among other reasons to the relatively superior quality of that
link. On the telegraph, US traffic dominates with 62% of incoming and 15%
of outgoing telegrams. Telex traffic is more evenly distributed, with major
correspondence countries being Thailand, Japan, Australia, USA anId USSR.
Demand for Service
3.07        Recent studies by EPTL consultants have attempted to assess
demand in Vientiane to decide the location of a future exchange and line con-
centrators, and to estimate major provincial demand development.   These
studies suggest that in Vientiane 52% of subscribers are residential, 31%
are business subscribers, 9% are official Government lines and 8% are lines
of foreign organizations and persons. The seemingly high residential figure
is known to include residential connections of government officials and
managers of state-owned enterprises. Based on the above studies, suppressed
demand in Vientiane alone is estimated at around 1,500 to 2000 lines, but can
not be quantified exactly. Partly because of the virtual impossibility of
getting a telephone line, and partly because of the poor quality of service,
potential subscribers are discouraged from even applying for registration on
a waiting  list.    In the provinces,  indications  regarding demand are
unavailable altogether. Demand forecasts have therefore not been prepared.
Instead they have been approximated by supply forecasts for Vientiane and
five major provincial capitals by EPTL staff and its consultants on the basis
of present capacities and traffic levels in existing facilities, the
evolution and distribution of the population, observed economic activity and
growth projections, and experience in other countries at similar levels of



development. These estimates, considered reasonable, are contained in the
Project Document File, and are summarized in Anpex 3.4.
Sector Constraints
3.08        Operation  of  the  existing  telecommunications  system  and
development of the sector have been constrained by a number of factors,
including: (a) obsolescence of much of the existing equipment and m%terials
used in the sector, and the unavailability of spare parts to maintain and
operate the system adequately, causing inadequate service; (b) the lack of
local expertise and experience at all levels of system operation, resulting
in a lack of planning, loose management and poor maintenance of facilities;
(c) until recently, the lack of a comprehensive framework for investment
planning; (d) inefficient procurement practices; and (e) severe under-
investment in the sector because of relatively low priority assigned to the
sector in the past in the light of limited resources and high initial cost.
Government Obiectives and Strategy for the Sector
3.09        The G-overnment of Lao PDR recognizes the importance of a well
functioning telecommunications network to a vigorous economic development
expected to be spurred by its new economic policies. Thus, in the coming
decade, the Government's major objectives for the sector are to (a) improve
the quality of telecommunications, (b) increase access to telecommunications
services to a larger number of economic agents, (c) increase operational
efficiency through improved management and organization of EPTL, and (d)
generate increasing revenues for cost recovery and resource mobilization (for
network development investments, as well as, in the future, for transfer to
the Government).
3.10        Government's strategy for future development in the telecom-
munications sector is to (a) establish and expand a modern network, based on
a comprehensive plan, to assure meeting the rapidly growing demand for
telecommunications services across the country, (b) introduce digital
technology to assure high quality service, (c) strengthen EPTL, and (d)
separate the telecommunications from postal services, to permit a greater
focus of attention on telecommunications' specific problems snd to assure
adequate revenues for the substantial new investment needed to replace ob-
solete equipment.
Bank Group's Experience in the Sector
3.11        The Association's only previous involvement in the sector is the
ongoing Telecommunications Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Project
(para. 1.02) for which a Credit (1684-IA) of SDR 3.5 million (US$3.9 million)
was  made  available  to  EPTL  in  1986.    That  project  comprises:  (a)
rehabilitation and limited expansion of the country's telecommunications
system; (b) rehabilitation of the postal system; (c) improvement of
warehousing and repair and maintenance shops, and strengthening of all other
general support facilities; and (d) technical assistance and training in
management and organization, finance and accounting, investment planning,
project engineering, operation and maintenance. The ongoing project is part
of the Government's 1986-90 sector investment program, which has a total cost
of US$8.7 million and is being supported partly (for training and technical



assistance) by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), with the
International Telecommunications Union (ITU) acting as executing agency.
3.12        The project start-up was delayed by over a year, mostly due to
delays in appointment of UNDP-financed consultants by ITU. The project scope
also had to be modified: The envisaged rehabilitation and expansion of the
telephone system with second-hand conventional exchanges, an important
component of that project, proved non-feasible due to lack of suitable
exchanges which could have been refurbished, transported and installed within
EPTL's system at reasonable cost.   Therefore, the envisaged second-hand
equipment was substituted by a small new digital exchange (1,024 lines) in
Vientiane to meet the most immediate needs of that city. Care has been taken
to allow for effective redeployment of that exchange in the future:  The
exchange is portable and will be transferred to Pakse under the proposed
Project.    Having overcome these initial problems, the project has been
proceeding satisfactorily, and is now expected to be completed by June 30,
1991 as scheduled.
Rationale for IDA Involvement in the Proposed Project
3.13        The increased pace of the Lao PDR economy as a result of major
reforms will not be sustainable with the telecommunications system now in
place. There is consequently a pressing need to modernize, integrate and
expand the country's existing telecommunications network to support continued
economic  development.    In view  of the urgency  for  this  investment,
preparati,on of the proposed Project which will initiate major system
modernization and expansion and continue institutional support, has therefore
been accelerated at Government's request and with the cooperation of UNDP and
ITU. Under on-going UNDP financing, a new reinforced consultant team has
been selected in 1989 by ITU on the basis of IDA-prepared terms of reference
to accommodate continued implementation of the ongoing project and to advance
detailed preparation of the proposed Second Project (para. 4.07).   The
proposed Project reflects IDA's overall strategy for its operations in Lao
PDR, namely: (a) to foster economic integration through an emphasis on vital
infrastructure development; (b) to support Government efforts, directly and
indirectly, to upgrade operations of public enterprises; (c) to stimulate
development in distant regions; and (d) to foster growth of the private
sector and development of human resources.
3.14         With  the proposed Project,  IDA will  continue  to  support
institutional improvement in EPTL and development of its human resources.
Most importantly, the proposed Project will finance the majority of
investments included in the Government' s comprehensive Investment Program
for 1990-95, which was prepared with Association assistance and was designed
to assure the first phase of a rational and coordinated network development,
with appropriate donor coordination (para. 5.01).



-7-
IV. TEE BENEFICIARY - EPTL
Enib iii les
4.01        EPTL is an autonomous enterprise in charge of the administrative,
technical and commercial activities related to the provision of pet and
telecommunications services. Within the supervisory framework of MCTI , EPIL
is responsible for (a) establishment of its service targets, investment
programs and operational plans; (b) development of action programs for
achieving these targets, including schedules, budgets and procedures; (c)
management of its own budget; (d) contracting of goods and services with
local or foreign firms; (e) collection of revenues and meeting of liabilities
both in the country and for international services; (f) proposals for rates
and tariffs; and (g) establishment and implementation of personnel programs.
However, limitations in experience of management and staff of EPTL (para.
4.03) represent major constraints to its ability to meet these obligations
effectively. This will continue to be addressed izder the propoaed Project
(para.4.06).
Organization and Management
4.02        EPTL is headed by a General Director who,  along with the
Department Directors and the Chief Accountant, is appointed by the Minister
of the MCTPC. EPTL is organized into six departments for Telecommunications,
Posts, Projects, Provinces, Finance, and Administration (see Annex 4.1 for
EPTL's present organization chart). Operational Unit Chiefs are appointed
by the Departmental Directors  concurrence with the General Director.
While EPTL's present organization has served the company adequately, the
major investments contemplated under the upcoming Program 1990-95 will
necessitate some changes in its organization, as well as the assistance of
technical experts. The expected organizational changes will (a) establish
a Development Department by reorganizing and strengthening the existing
Projects Department, (b) streamline the Telecommunications Operations and
Finance Departments, and (c) temporarily provide a Project Management Unit
on a departmental level (para. 5.14 and Annex 4.1). During negotiations,
EPTL provided an undertaking to establish the Project Management Unit by
March 31, 1990 and to implement the other changes by end-1990.
Human Resources and Training
4.03        As of December 31, 1988, EPTL's staff totalled about 1,350, of
which 591 are assigned to functions of the telecommunications services (Annex
). Only 41 of total EPTL staff are engineers, 34% are technicians of
varying levels of formal education and experience, and 31 work in finance and
accounting. Vientiane HQ employs 371 of the total staff. Present telecom-
munications staff amount to 123 per 1,000 lines, which is high. While the
company shows over-staffing at many levels of the organization, expertise is
limited, and key staff are in need of training.
4.04        While some on-the-job training is being conducted under the
ongoing IDA-supported project, progress in this regard has been slow because
of the lack of Lao-speakit technical experts and the lack of French- or
English-speaking EPTL staff. EPTL has started with the development of
foreign language skills of high level and technical telecommunications staff



and the proposed Project will support EPTL in these efforts in the context
of the envisaged human resource development program (para. 4.05).
4.05        EPTL's management recognizes the need to reinforce training,
formally and on the job, both abroad and at home. The company is already
moving in several directions:   Several engineering students,  presently
studying abroad, are to join the company shortly. EPTL is also applying for
various short- and medium-term training opportunities in several countries
including Australia, France, and Thailand.   Moreover, EPTL has recently
engaged in a twinning agreement with the Telecommunications Authority of
Thailand (TOT), which will allow it to take advantage of the related
languages, Thai and Lao.   Nevertheless, EPTL requires a more systematic
staffing and manpower development program to be implemented as part of its
Investment Program 1990-95. Such a program has been developed recently by
EPTL, supported by ITU, and includes a staffing plan and a comprehensive
training program to the year 1995. The human resource development program
(see Project File) was reviewed and agreed at negotiations. EPTL has agreed
to implement it under the Project with the assistance of consultants accep-
table to the Association.
Technical Assistance
4.06        Whereas EPTL has the required autonomy on paper, the scarcity of
experienced managem'.nt at all levels in EPTL and the lack of an adequate
maragement information system result in substantial intervention by MCTPC
and other Government entities at even routine operational matters on a day
to day basis. The first IDA project has made a start in improving EPTL's
operation, maintenance and planning capabilities but technical assistance
needs to be continued. The proposed Project is designed to strengthen EPTL's
managerial and institutional capabilities further. The technical assistance
team to be provided under the Project will support EPTL in its continued
efforts to improve its policies, organization, procedures and operations in
addition to providing training services (para. 4.05) and project management
services (para. 5.13). An outline of terms of reference is provided in Annex
4 3.
4.07        Recently, a new, increased consultant team has been recruited by
ITU on tl.e basis of terms of reference prepared by IDA. The new team started
work in November 1989, to reinforce technical assistance to EPTL under the
first project, as well as in the context of detailed preparation of the
proposed Project.   That team, subject to satisfactory performance, will be
maintained by EPTL for technical assistance and project management under the
proposed Project.    In any case, as a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed IDA credit, EPTL will appoint consultants, accepLable to the
Association (Contract Approval), to provide assistance in project management,
as well as to assist in training, institutional and financial development,
planning, operation and maintenance.
Financial Management and Accounting System
4.08        According to the NSEM, and based on EPTL's Statutes, the company
manages its financial affairs autonomously.   With the goal of financial
autonomy in mind, EPTL must apply in a timely manner for tariff adjustments,
which are authorized by MCTPC in coordination with the Council of Ministers.



- 9 -
Whereas tariffs and investment programs are subject to Government approval,
the company is empowered to incur and service debt, to charge its customers
for services rendered, and to accumulate retained earnings.   While EPTL
financial data are basically sound, the financial management and information
system now in place does not allow EPTL to adequately carry out its rights
and obligations relating to rational financial management: Up to now, EPTL
has used the traditional system of accounts mandatory for all public
enterprises in Lao PDR.  This is known as the "CVM" system:  C, V, and M
stand for three categories of accounts (material and equipment related, labor
related, and profit related, respectively) used for reporting operational
activities to the Government and for assessing taxes and profit shares of
both the Government and the company.   No balance sheets and fund-flow
statements are prepared.  EPTL's accounts in the past have been kept on a
single-en;ry cash basis, with revenue accounts in Vientiane separated for
post and telecommunications, but with provincial accounts and all expenditure
accounts on a joint basis. While accounts in Vientiane are kept up-to-date,
some provincial accounts, particularly for the more remote provinces, have
been kept erratically, or not at all.
4.09        Under the ongoing IDA project, technical assistance is being
provided to improve the company's accounting and management information
system. A consultant is assisting EPTL to introduce double-entry bookkeeping
and a rationalized charter of accountm, which would eventually allow for the
separation sf postal and telecommunications accounts. However, it has not
yet been ponsible to finalize the new charter of accounts, because it must
be synchronized with a new nation-wide accounting system for public
enterprises developed in the context of NSEM, which was finalized in end
1989.  EPTL and its consultants have been coordinating their efforts with
these activities.  During negotiations, EPTL has agreed to (a) establish,
review and agree with IDA by end-1990 , a system of accounts for EPTL, (b)
train staff in Vientiane and the five major provinces in its use during 1991-
92, tc) apply the system from 1993 in Vientiane and the five major provinces;
and (d) submit to IDA bv end-1993 plans for improving accounting systems in
the remaining provinces. EPTL has also provided an undertaking to implement
the plans for an improved accounting system in the remaining provinces during
1994-95, and to fully separate its postal and telecommunications accounts in
Vientiane and the five major provinces effective January 1, 1994.
Billing and Collection
4.10        EPTL's billing and collection performance has improved to some
extent in the last two years but still falls short of performance targets
agreed under the ongoing IDA project. Except for international calls, for
which private and foreign subscribers are billed every 10 days and must pay
in dollars, billing is on a monthly basis in Vientiane and the major provin-
ces,  and on a bi-monthly basis  in more remote provinces.    In theory
collection should be good, given the existence of strict disconnection
procedures. In reality, procedures have not been enforced rigorously, and
EPTL still has accounts receivable with Government and private subscribers
g:.ing back to 1983 and 1985, respectively, and, in the aggregate, amounting
tv over 5 months and 2.5 months of present billing, respectively.   The
Government has recently become aware of major problems of bad debts and
cross-arrears throughout the economy. It therefore has started to identify
these arrears, and is preparing a clearing mechanism for eliminating them by



- 10 -
balancing arrears against taxes and payments due to the Government. During
negotiations EPTL has agreed that it will implement the program, shown In
Annex 4.4, to (a) collect, or i, not possible, write off, prior to end 1990
accounts receivable predating 1988, and (b) maintain arrears of Government
clients and private customr... to below 3 months of billing thereafter.
Audit
4.11        EPTL is subject to the normal Government audit, carried out by
the Committee of Control and Audit which was established in 1985 with the
status of a ministry. Independent auditing firms are presently not operating
in Lao PDR. EPTL's financial performance is audiced, in a limited manner,
on the basis of EPTL's income statement, derived by the CVM system. While
there is room for improvement, for present purposes the existing system is
acceptable. Moreover, given the major changes now being introduced in the
financial information systems of public sector enterprises, improvements of
auditing procedures are expected to evolve as well.   On the other hand,
technical assistance is needed to establish and finalize a simple but
effective charter of accounts for EPTL, and to train its financial staff in
Vientiane and the provinces in its use. This is scheduled to take place
between 1990 and 1992. During that period, EPTL's financial department would
be strengthened to permit, starting in 1993, preparation, on a quarterly
basis, of balance sheets and fund-flow statements. in addition to the income
statements, already being prepared now (para. 4.09). During negotiations,
EPTL has agreed that unaudited annual financial statements will be submitted
to IDA within six months of completion of the fiscal year.   Government-
audited annual statements will be submitted within nine months after the end
of the fiscal year (para. 5.21).
Performance Monitoring
4.12        Under the first project, EPTL, assisted by consultants and IDA
staff, has started to develop a technical and financial database which will
be an important part of a management information system. This will allow
performance to be assessed against agreed targets and provide a useful tool
for future network planning. Although the poor state of some of the exist-
ing equipment does not allow systematic reading of technical data on a
continuous basis, EPTL should, nevertheless, be able to take sample
measurements at this time to provide some approximation of actual data. With
new equipmert installed the continuous reading will be feasible. Under the
proposed Project, performance monitoring based on agreed indicators projected
for two years, will be possible (para.5.19).



- 11 -
V. THE PROGRAX AND THE PROJECT
Introduction
5.01        The  Government  has  recognized  that  it  must  improve  the
telecommunications system rapidly and comprehensively, but 72cks the
financial resources to carry out a major modernization and expansion program.
Several bilateral donors had earlier expressed interest in providing
financing for certain parts of the system's development.   To allow for a
rational and comprehensive development across the country, the Government
requested the Association to assist in developing and financially supporcing
a medium-term investmen_ program, which would provide the first essential
part of a nation-wide telecommunications network, and would allow for
rational donor coordination.   In this way, procurement would be possible
based on predetermined standards and parameters, with individual network
components selected and integrated into a coherent overall network develop-
ment plan. A telecomimunications investment program for the period 1990-95
(the Program) was therefore recently developed by EPTL, assisted by its
consultants and IDA staff (Annex 5.1). The Program will help implement the
Government sector strategy (para. 3.10).
Investment Propram 1990-95: Objectives
5.02        The basic objectives of the Program are, to:
(a)   establish the first phase of a national telecommunications
network that will connect Vientiane with the north (Luang
Prabang) and the south (Pakse) through a microwave backbone, will
support future system development in other provinces and rural
areas, and will provide efficier._ links from that initial network
to internatioral networks;
(b)   improve  the quality of,  and access  to,  telecommunications
services (domestic and international) in Lao PDR, through
modernization and expansion of existing facilities, replacement
of obsolete equipment, and introduction of new technology
(digital transmission and switching, international links); and
(c)   pursue the institutional strengthening of EPTL, to make it an
efficient and effective sector service enterprise able to
shoulder increased responsibilities as a result of the autonomy
newly granted to state-owned enterprises.
Investment Program 1990-95: DescriRtion
5.03        The Program comprises (a) ongoing works, and in particular (i)
the first IDA project (para. 3.11, 3.12), (ii) an earth satellite station
financed by Australian aid to improve and expand international telephone
traffic, presently under implementation, (iii) a microwave connection from
Vientiane to nearby Paksane, financed by French aid, and (iv) miscellaneous
radio telephone installations in remote provinces to be financed out of EPTL
cash generation; and (b) the proposed Second IDA Project (paras. 5.04 ff);
(see Annex 5.1).   The total cost of the Program is estimated to amount to
about US$43.3 million (excluding interest during construction). It is



- 12 -
important to note that the Program will increase the value of EPTL's assets
by a factor of about 17.  Thus, during the next six years, EPTL's most
prominent activity will be the implementation of that Program. The Program
is acceptable to the Association and was endorsed by the Government in
September 1989. During negotiations the Goverrment and EPTL have agreed that
they will carry out an annual review and update of EPTL's Program in
consultation with the Association.
The ProRosed Proiect
5.04        The proposed Project is an integral part of EPTL's Investment
Program 1990-95 and meets the sector's most pressing needs for equipment
modernization, network development and expansion. It also provides technical
assistance for project management, staff training, and the institutional
development of EPTL.  Moreover, it will assist EPTL in planning network
evolution beyond 1995, and in developing future investment programs.
Project Obiectives
5.05        The objectives of the proposed Project are to: (a) carry out
priority investments in the sector, particularly th.e first phase of a nation-
wide digital telephone network, and improve international telecommunications
services; (b) strengthen EPTL's capabilities in the area; of planning,
project implementation, operations, maintenance and financial management; and
(c) develop EPTL's human resources.
Proiect DescriRtion
5.06        The Project will comprise the following components (details in
Annex 5.1):
Part A: Telecommunications Facilities
(a)   Switching Facilities and Cable Plant
(i) Supply, installation and commissioning of digital telephone
exchanges in Vientiane and four provincial capitals, and transfer
of a small digital exchange from Vientiane to a fifth capital;
total capacity of about 15,000 lines.
(ii)  Concomitant supply,  installation and commissioning of local
networks, subscriber connections and installation of public cail
facilities in the six cities. Several of the out-lying provinces
will benefit from the transfer and installation of equipment from
Vientiane and the five provincial towns which is being replaced
with more up-to-date equipment;
(b)   Long Distance Transmission Network
Supply, installation and commissioning of a digital microwave route
from Luang Prabar.g, via Vientiane, to Pakse, interconnecting the six
cities, mentioned above, for national and international traffic.
Access roads to, and foundations of, certain microwave repeater
stations. The system would be expanded in the future to accommodate



- 13 -
interconnections  to  other  provinces.    Multiplex  equipment  will
initially provide 30 telephone circuits between each two of these
nodes.
(c)   Ancillary Eguipment and Civil Works
(i)   ancillary equipment for the above facilities and the general
administration of the network, including about 50 public
telephones and booths;
(ii)  buildings for telephone exchanges and cable storage;
(d)   Sugervision of Maintenance and Operations
Suppliers for switching facilities and transmission network will
supervise maintenance and operations for one year after commissioning
of the equipment.
Part B: Technical Assistance
A total of about 180 staff-weeks for:
(i)  Management of the total scope of the work related to EPTL's
Program.
(ii)  Institutional development,  including strengthening of EPTL's
capabilities in management, corporate planning, finance and
accounting, engineering, operations and maintenance.
Part C: Training
In addition to training provided by the equipment suppliers (switching: about
20 staff-months (s-m) overseas and about 5 s-m on site; transmission: about
10 s-m overseas and 5 s-m on site), the Project includes about 6 s-m of
assistance in Lao PDR by a training expert, as well as foreign training for
EPTL's staff (total of 300 s-m).
Project Cost
5.07        Total costs of the Project are estimated at about US$38.6 million
equivalent (Kip 23.1 billion), with a foreign exchange component of US$35.9
million equivalent (Kip 21.5 billion) or 93X of total Project cost. Project
base costs have been estimated in mid-1989 prices based on experience with
other projects recently financed by the World Bank Group, quotations obtained
by EPTL's consultants, and experience during the first project. Local costs,
have been estimated in US dollars and converted to Kip at the exchange rate
of US$1 - Kip 600 (July 1989). These costs are shown in Table 5.1 and are
detailed in Annex 5.2.



- 14 -
Tabl- 6.1: Ea.imated Project Cost
Local  Foreign   Total    Local Forotgn Total Forelon as X
Components                       Kip, Million a/            USt Million    of Total Coat
SECOND IDA PROJECT
Telcphone Exchanges              0      6,916   6,916     0.0   9.9   9.9       100.0
Transmission Systes            658      6,284   6,792     0.9   8.7   9.7        90.4
Outside Cable Plant            Boo    4,610   4,869       0.6   7.6   8.1        92.6              t
Power Plant                      0       8S6      856     0.0   0.6   0.6       100.0
Buildings                      16O       162      812     0.8   0.8   0.6        48.8
Miscollaneous                    0       189      189     0.0   0.3   0.8       100.0
Tech. Assist. A Proj. Mgt.     167      1,410   1,667     0.3   2.8   2.6        90.0
Training                        60       889      898     0.1   0.6   0.7        86.0
Total  eess Cost:   1,294    18,106  19,899      2.2  80.2  82.8        98.8
Physical Contingencies         129       906   1,035      0.2   '.5   1.7        67.6
Price Contingencies            187      2,528   2,710     0.8   4.2   4.6        98.1
Totel Project Cost:    1,610    21,684  28,14*      2.7  35.9  88.8        98.0
Interest during Construction:  1,820     860   1,680      2.2   0.6   2.8        21.4
Total Financing Required:   2,980    21,894  24,824      4.9  88.5  41.4        88.2
f/ Exchange Rate: US$ 1.00 = Kip 600; tho Project !v exempt from duties A taxes
5.08          Based on Lao PDR legislation the import of goods and services
under  the  Project  will  be  exempt  from  taxes  and  duties.             Physical
contingencies are estimated at 52 on foreign components and 102 on local
goods and services.  Because all costs, including local costs were estimated
in US dollars, the price contingencies are calculated, based on the expected
international  rates  of  7.2Z  in  1990  and  4.4Z  for  1991-95.    Costs  for
technical assistance are based on average staff-month costs (including
salaries, fees and international travel) of US$14,300 for foreign
consultants. Technical assistance including project management and training
are expected to require about 190 staff-months of experts services.
Capitalized interest during construction has been added at the rate of 82 for
the foreign funds onlent by the Government to EPTL.  The foreign portion of
interest during construction reflects EPTL's assumption of the foreign
exchange risk on the IDA credit (para. 5.11).
Project Financing and Terms
5.09            The Project's detailed financing plan with proposed sources of
financing is shown in Annex 5.3 and summarized in Table 5.2.



- 15 -
Table 5.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Source                                 Local   Foreign   Total   % of Total
(US$ million equivalent)
IDA                                     1.4      23.1     24.5       59
UNDP                                     0.1      1.1      1.2        3
Japanese Government Grant                0.0     11.7     11.7       28
EPTL                                     3.4      0.6      4.0       10
Total                                 4.9    36.5       41.4      100
5.10        The proposed IDA credit will cover 59% of total financing
required for the Project, including 63% of needed foreign exchange financing
and 29% of local cost financing, and will be made available to the Government
on standard terms.   It will finance the microwave transmission system,
including access roads, civil works and steel towers for the repeater
stations- cable, wire, accessories and construction of the outside cable
networks, subscriber terminals; power plants and other miscellaneous
equipment;  buildings  to house  exchanges  and other  facilities;  and a
substantial portion of technical assistance and ..zLaining (see also Annex
5.3). UNDP, which has made a written commitment to provide grant funds tor
Project financing, would cover ani important part of training and technical
assistance, and miscellaneous small supplies and equipmert for institution
building purposes, amounting to a total of about US$1.2 million, or 3% of
total financing required. The Japanese Government has confirmed that it will
provide a grant to cover the digital switching equipment for Vientiane and
the major provincial cities under the Project, which is estimated to cost
US$11.7 million equivalent ( about 28% of total financing required). UNDP and
Japanese grants will be administered by the respective cofinanciers. EPTL.
based on financial projections (para. 6.12) would contribute US$4.0 milliola
or 10% of total financing required, including US$0.6 million in foreign
exchange (foreign portion of interest during construction). EPTL would cover
interest during construction and participate in the financing of local costs
of the transmission system and the cabling network. The financing plan, as
summarized above and detailed in Annex 5.3, was agreed during negotiations.
5.11        The external funding for the Project will be passed on by the
Government to EPTL in a manner intended to safeguard the company's financial
viability throughout its major expansion. Thus, only a portion of the total
grants and multilateral credits (US$37.4 million equivalent), i.e., 62% or
about US$23.2 million, will be on-lent on a pro-rata basis to EPTL following
the standard terms used by the Government for lending to comparabie
enterprises, which are: 8X interest, with a maturity of 20 years, including
five years of grace. EPTL will carry the foreign exchange risk of the IDA
Credit. The remainder, i.e., 38%, or about US$14.2 million, will be passed



- 16 -
from the Government to EPTL in the form of equity. During negotiations, the
arrangements between the Government and EPTL for on-lending of funds,
including carrying of the exchange risk, and for the provision of equity,
have been confirmed. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and EPTL for the IDA credit and reflecting the above on-lending
terms will be a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
Retroactive Financing
5.12        Provision has been made for retroactive financing, under the IDA
credit, of eligible expenditures incurred after January 1, 1990.   These
expenditures relate to items on the critical path (training and buildings),
and are estimated to amount to about US$0.5 million (2% of the total Credit
amount).  All items financed retroactively will be procured in accordance
with World Bank Guidelines.
Status of PreRaration
5.13        The Program and Project have been prepared by EPTL and its
consultants  under  the  first  IDA project,  assisted by  IDA  staff.    A
feasibility study for the Proje t was completed in September l189.  Under
the ongoing project a reinforced consultant team started work in November
1989.   On the basis of the feasibility study and detailed supportive
analyses, EPTL, in close cooperation with the reinforced consultant team, is
presently finalizing detailed design of all major Project components and is
sta'ting  to prepare  detailed  specifications  and  tender  documents  for
procurement of goods and services. Assuming satisfactory performance of the
reinforced consultant team, EPTL will retain its services during the
execution of the proposed Project under a contract for services in project
management, technical assistance and training (para. 4.06).   The Project
would be executed over 5 years. The proposed schedule of project implementa-
tion is shown in Annex 5.4.  Effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit is
expected for July 1990.
Project Implem4ptaion
5.14        EPTL will be responsible for implementation of the Project.  For
that purpose a Project Management Unit comprising EPTL's consultants and EPTL
staff will be in charge of project management (para. 4.02 and Annex 4.1,.
Switching and transmission systems will be provided and installed on a turn-
key basis (excluding buildings) by suppliers who will also be supervising
maintenance and operations for one year after commissioning of equipment.
Construction of the cable distribution network (including civil works; turn-
key basis) and buildings will be contracted by foreign firms or foreign-local
joint ventures.   The implementation of contracts for telecommunications
equipment and cable network will be supervised by EPTL staff and its
consultants. Supervision of building execution will be contracted with local
engineers.
Procurement
5.15        In view of EPTL's limitcd project preparation and execution
capabilities, the proposed Project has been structured around a minimum
number of three major turn-key packages (telephone exchanges, transmission



- 17 -
systems, and cable networks), with about 8 smaller packages comprisliig
subscriber  terminals  (telephones,  PABXs,  telex  terminals),    subscriber
installation, power plant, miscellaneous equipments and supplies, and
buildings.  Detailed design and preparation of procurement documentation iill
be carried out by EPTL in close cooperation with the reinforced coinsultant
team,  who will provide project managemenc services as well.  Provilreie"itt
arrangementsg/ are summarized in Table 5.3.
Table 5.3: Project Procurement Plan
(US$ rAillion) a/ DJ
Project Item                     ICB   LCB    LIB    Other                Total
Telephone Exchanges                                    11.7                11.7
Transmission System             11.8                                       11,8
(10.9)                                     (10.9)
Cable Network                    7.5                                        7.5
(7.5)                                      (7.5)
Subscriber Connections           0.5                                        0.5
(0.2)                                      (0.2)
Subscriber Terminals             1.3           0.2                          1.5
(1.3)        (0.2)                         (1.5)
Miscellaneous Equipment          0.7           0.3      0.1                  1.1
(0.7)         (0.3)                        (1.0)
Buildings                                0.6                                0.6
(0.6)                              (0.6)
Tech. Assist. & Proj. Mgt.       2.6                    0.5                 3.1
(2.6)                                      (2.6)
Training                                                0.8                 0.8
(0.2)               (0.2)
Total Procurement            24.4    0.6   0.5    13.1                  28.6
of which IDA financed       (23.2)  (0.6) (0.5)   (0.2)                (24.5)
a/ Contingencie' are included in above figures.
h/ Figures in parentheses indicate IDA financing.
5.16        Contracts for about US$23.2 million (including contingencies)
frr supply of goods  and services  (transmission  syst A, cable network,
VJ     Procurement in Lao PDR was previously centralized through Societe
Lao Import-Export, attached to the Ministry of Commerce. While this agency
did acquire considerable experience in international competitive bidding
(ICB) under earlier IDA credits, there ,ere frequent delays in the evaluation
and approval process by inter-ministerial committees. The Government has now
assigned direct procurement responsibility to the Ministries, provincial
authorities and parastatals concerned, which should result in faster and more
efficient procurement, bearing in mind that many of these agencies have
already become familiar with ICI procedures. Through the first IDA funded
project EPTL is now well familiar with procurement procedures.



- 18 -
subscriber terminals and connections, and power plant) will be awarded
following international competitive bidding (ICB). Miscellaneous items of
equipment, materials and construction services, in packages less chan
US$100,000 and totalling up to US$1.5 million will be procured under
proced.ures of limited international bidding (LIB), local competitive bidding
(LCB), or international or local shopping. It is expected that local/foreign
joint ventures will compete for building construction (LCB). IDA-financed
contracts above US$ 100.000, with a total value of about US$23 million, will
be subject to prior IDA review of procurement documentation. IDA-financed
contracts with a limit of up to US$100,000 will be subject to post-award
review. Procurement of IDA-financed consultant services for technical
assistance and training will be in accordance with the guidelines of the
Bank. Telephone exchanges, financed by a Japanese parallel grant, will be
purchased after competition among Japanese suppliers. The small amount of
UNDP-financed goods will be procured on the basis of limited international
shopping, whereas UNDP-financed services (training, technical assistance)
will be procured on the basis of ITU rules (ITU acting as executing agency).
Details of goods and services to be procured under the Project, including IDA
financed packages, are indicated in Annex 5.5.
Disbursements
5.17        The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit of US$24.5 million
equivalent will be disbursed against items as shown in Table 5.4.   Full
documentation will be sent to IDA in support of all contracts for technical
assistance, and all contracts for civil works, materials, and equipment
costing above US$100,000 equivalent; whereas itemized statements of
expenditures (SOEs) will be used for contracts (civil works, materials, and
equipment) below US$100,000.   The SOE supporting documentation will be
retained by EPTL and will be made available for review by IDA on request.
IDA financing for local expenditures will be net of taxes and duties.
Table 5.4:   DISBURSEMENT OF THE PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
Amount      Percentage of
(US$ Mln.)    Expenditures
to be Financed
A. Supply,Installation and Commissioning of:
- Transmission System                     9.4              1001
- Cable Network                           6.4              100X
- Subscriber Connections                  0.2              1001
B. Materials and Equipment
- Subscriber Terminals                    1.2              1001
- Miscellaneous Equipment                 0.6              100X
C. Buildings                                 0.5              1001
D. Technical Assistance                      2.2              100X
E. Training                                  0.2              '00X
F. Unallocated                               3.8
Total                                 24.5



- 19 -
5.18        To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account of US$1.2 million,
representing four months of estimated disbursements over the life of the
Project, will be established with Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao
(BCEL) in Vientiane. Applications for replenishment will be submitted to
IDA on a monthly basis or whenever the aceount is drawn down by one third of
the authorized allocation, whichever comes first.  The proposed credit is
expected to be fully disbursed by June 30. 1997. The estimated schedule of
disbursement (Annex 5.6) is based on the Bank's standard disbursement profile
for telecommunications projects in Asia.   (This choice is reasonable,
providing a large sample with a majority of projects in IDA countries. On the
other hand, the standard profile for all projects in Lao PDR is not suitable,
since the sample is very small and distorted by profiles in sectors very
different from telecommunications). The closing date of the IDA Credit will
be December 31, 1997.
Performance Indicators. Project Monitoring. Auditing. and ReRorting
5.19        Historic (1985-88) and projected (1989-91) performance indicators
are shown in &fX_J.Z. The projected indicator targets have been discussed
with EPTL during appraisal, and will serve as monitoring tools to gauge
EPTL's short and nedium term performance. Agreement with EPTL on targets for
1990 and 1991 has been confirmed during negotiations. Agreement has also
been obtained that targets for each of the subsequent years, together with
any necessary corrective measures, will be reviewed with IDA by Sepcember 30
of the preceding fiscal year (para. 4.12).
5.20        A supervision plan is shown in Annex 5.8.   During project
implementation, EPTL will roport progress against pnysical indicators through
quarterly progress reports; progress against financial indicators will be
reported by EPTL on a semi annual basis; those reports will be issued within
one month after the expiration of the period under review.   Progress of
implementation of the training and technical assistance programs will be
covered in the quarterly progress reports.
5.21 EPTL will prepare and maintain project accounts in accordance with
sound accounting practices. Project accounts will be prepared annually and
withdrawal applications will be supported by full documentation, except for
expenditures reimbursed against SOEs (up to 5 of total credit amount)
certified by  the Project Director.    ttnaudited  and audited  financial
statements will be made available to IDA as stated in para. 4.11 above. The
annual audit reports of the Committee of Control and Audit will cover (a)
project accounts, (b) the Special Account, and (c) Statements of Expenditure.
The Special Account and SOEs will be audited separately from EPTL accounts.
Such audits will contain a sep..ate opinion as to whether the disbursements
made were used for the purpose for which they were intended under the
Project. EPTL will prepare its portion of a completion report two months
after the closing date of the proposed credit. That report will contain an
evaluation of the execution, initial operation, cost and benefits of the
Project, as well as the performance of the Government, the Association and
ITU.  It will also include lessons learned during project implementation.
These arrangements have been confirmed with EPTL during negotiations.



- 20 -
Vr. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
6.01        Given the centralized administration and the shortage of senior
experienced managers, EPTL still has little autonomy (para. 4.06). While it
enjoys operating freedom as a public sector enterprise, and nominally is
responsible for realizing satisfactory financial performance, it operates
under tight supervision and control by the MCTPC. T1.e Government makes all
major decisions regarding tariff levels, investment programs, and financial
management.
6.02        Until unification of the exchange rate in end-1988, the exchange
rate to be used for recognizing foreign revenues, expenditures and
investments was prescribed by the Government.   Results of an historic
financial analysis of EPTL will vary significantly depending on the exchange
rate used. EPTL earns a substantial portion of its revenues (about 541 in
1988) in US dollars and other convertible currencies from its internationsal
operations.   Also, a significant porticn of its investments and current
expenditures, directly or indirectly, involve foreign currencies. EPTL keeps
separate accounts for domestic and foreign currencies. The following review
of financial performance from 1985 is therefore expressed in current dollar
equivalents, using the parallel exchange rate obser-ved by the Government (s.'e
Tables 6.1 and 6.2). In this manner the significant over-valuation of the
Kip in the past (almost 900Z in 1985, about 300X in 1986 and 1987, and about
10% in 1988) is largely eliminated.
Past Financial Performance: EPTL Consolidated
6.03        Considering  the  poor   state   of  both   its  postal   and
telecommunications  assets,  which  to a large  extent are  obsolete,  the
financial performance of EPTL's consclidated P&T operations has been
surprisingly  strong  since  its  creation.        Operations  in  Vientiane
Municipality, where most of the international services are concentrated,
account for an average of 801 of rovenue in any one year, but only for an
average of 65% of operating costs.   The substantial profits generated by
Vientiane, and to a much smaller extent in a few of the larger provinces,
have easily offset small losses in all the other provinces.
6.04        Consolidated income statements and estimated balance sheets for
EPTL since 1985 are detailed in _nnex 6.1 and summarized in Table 6.1 below.
As can be seen, revenues from P&T operations between 1985 and 1988 have shown
a steady growth of 281 p.a., expressed in US dollar terms. This is very good
performance,  reflecting    significant  growth  of  domestic  as  well  as
international postal and talecommunications traffic. The growth in interna-
tional P&T revenue of about 121 p.a. is mostly due to service level
increases. By comparison, the significant increase of local Kip revenues of
almost 781 p.a. (Annex 6.1) results both from some growth in domestic service
levels and from increases of domestic P&T tariffs in 1985 and 1988 to offset,
at least partially, the effect of major inflation and devaluations of the Kip
at those times (para. 6.10).  Annual average growth of about 13X in net
income after taxes from international operations between 1985 and 1988, is
in line with international revenue growth. On the other hand, growth of net
domestic income after taxes, expressed in Kip terms (on average about 28X



- 21 -
during the same period), is significantly below the growth in domestic
revenues (78X), indicating a relative deterioration of the profitability of
the domestic operations. In other words, net income on domestic operations
got squeezed between tariffs declining in real terms and costs increasing
significantly due to inflation. Fortunately, international operations, in
spite of relatively poor-quality service, are carrying EPTL financially to
a large extent.
Table 6,1:   EPTL Consolidated
Financial Performance, 1985-89
(Current US$ '000)   a/
6 Months
Year                           1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
US $ 1.00 - Kip                 340     410     395     420      450
Operating Revenues              877    1328    1592    1850    1181
Of which in FX             648     835    1031    1005       na                9
Operating Expenses              400     660     810    1007      591
(Incl. Depreciation)
Operating Income                477     668     783     843      590
Interest Expense                  0       0      24      28       12
Net Income after Taxes          415     510     575      627     375
Indicators
Current Ratio                  1.12    1.30    1.46    1.63       na
Operating Ratio                0.46    0.50    0.51    0.54    0.50
Return on (Hist) Assets          41%     33X     35%      20%     na
a/   Based on the Parallel Exchange Rate as observed by Government
and shown in the table.
na   not available
6.05        On the domestic side, the financial performance of EPTL needs
careful monitoring.  The substantial devaluations of the Kip in 1986 and 1988
were accompanied by relatively small increases on domestic tariffs (on
average about 200% in late 1985 and about 50% in mid-1988) (para. 6.10).
During tFe same period, however, domestic operating expenses expressed in
Kip, incieased by 640%. Due to continuing inflation and devaluation since
mid-1988, domestic revenue continues to decrease in real terms. Moreover,
recently, operating costs in Kip terms have been rising significantly faster
than general inflation, due to (a) significant increases in wages and
salaries, and (b) the effect of continuing devaluation of the Kip on the cost
of spares, materials and fuel (all imported). Although the projected 1989
performance will be acceptable overall, the tariff increases of 1988 were not
sufficient to offset the double impact on profitability from the substantial
inflation of operating costs and the relative decline of domestic revenues
in real terms (para. 6.10).
6.06        EPTL's operating ratio, ranging between 46% and 54% during the
four year period, is low.  This low ratio reflects the past low level of
investments and resulting low levels of depreciation, as well as the low



- 22 -
level of salaries, particularly for managers and technical personnel. Debt
service coverage ratios remain meaningless, because up to mid-1987 the
company carried no long term debt.
6.07        As of mid-1989, EPTL Consolidated is financially sound, both in
terms of liquidity and working capital availakle, and overall capital
structure. Its recent current ratio of 1.6 is reasonable. Its conservative
financial structure, with a debt/equitv ratio of less than 20/80, combined
with high profitability, varying between 15X and 30X, illustrates EPTL's
financial strength. On the other hand, accounts payable ( US$975,000 at end-
1988), mostly to Government and public sector enterprises, are high. More
significantly, EPTL's receivables (mostly public clients) were 30 X of total
revenues and need to be reduced (para. 4.10).
Past Financial Performance: Telecommunications ODerations
6.08        Selected historic  indicators  for  EPTL's  Telecommunications
operations are detailed in ADnjLf_  and summarized in Table 6.2.
Table 6.2;  EPTL Telecommunicetions Operations
Financial Performance 1985-89
(Current US$ '000) _/
6 Months
Year                           1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
US $1.00 - Kip                  340     410     395     420      450
Operating Revenues              647     906    1034    1263      762
Of which in FX              532     618     717     739      445
Operating Expenses              370     470     539     723       na
(mInl. Depreciation)
Operating Income                278     322     494     540       na
Interest Expense                  0       0      20      20       na
Net Income after Taxes          186     303     299      399      na
Indicators h/
Operating Ratio                0.57    0.52    0.52    0.57       na
Telephone Revenue/line (US$) 113.4   154.5  171.14   198.9  117.28
Cash Op. Exp./line (US$)       14.9    49.8    53.5    62.5       na
A/ Based on Parallel Exchange Rate as shown in table.
k/ Balance Sheet Ratios not available: only Consolidated
Balance Sheets exist.
The performance of EPTL's telecommunications operations has shown an upward
trend similar to that of its consolidated operations, and has out-performed
postal services (Annex 6.3) during the period 1985-88 in terms of
profitability: The after tax profits of telecommunications have grown from
about US$185,000 in 1985 to almost US$400,000 in 1988 (i.e., by almost 281
per annum), whereas postal services grew from about US$ 180,000 to only about
US$225,000 (only 71 p.a.) during the same period. The better performance of



- 23 -
telecommunications is mainly due to the steady increase of telephone revenue,
averaging 44% p.a. in current US$ terms. Using appropriate shadow exchange
rates (parallel exchange rates as recorded by the Goverrnent), performance
of telecommunications remains positive, although the net loss on domestic
operations in 1987 (Annex 6.2) emphasizes the need for regular adjustments
of domestic tariffs in line with inflation and exchange rate changes. In
spite of that good performance and acceptable financial ratios, the high
levels of accounts payable, and, in particular, of receivables, must be
reduced (paras. 4.10 and 6.07).
Valuation of Assets
6.09        In the past, EPTL has occasionally revalued assets as a result
of a major devaluation of the Kip to maintain their value in US dollar terms
(1986, see Annex 6.1). Revaluation of assets, to reflect replacement value
is a practice not used in Lao PDR. During negotiations EPTL has agreed that
it will (a) continue its practice of maintaining its fixed assets registered
in foreign exchange; and (b) for the purpose of its annual accounts, convert
the value of its fixed asset accounts to Kip at the rate of exchange
prevailing on the last day of its financial year.
Tariffsg
6.10        International telecommunications tariffs, while established in
Kip, have to be paid in foreign currency by all clients (except Ministries
of the Government). Moreover, these tariffs are converted to US dollars at
the exchange rate valid at the time the tariffs were announced. Thus, they
are being kept constant in US$ terms (except for the Government). While this
is an unusuail practice, it does not restrict the use of international
services by private customers, since FX is available in the market.
International tariffs were last adjusted in July 1988, with an exchange rate
of US$1 - Kip380 (Annex 6.4) and their overall level has remained acceptable
as demonstrated by EPTL's past financial performance.   For some services,
tariffs are even high, when compared   with other countries.   Domestic
telecommunications tariffs have been adjusted only twice since 1984, in
October 1985 and in July 1988.  The latter adjustment came late and both
increases compensated too little (on average 200% in 1985 and only 50X in
1988) for major inflation and devaluation since 1985. Since mid-1988, the
erosion of domestic tariffs in real terms has continued. Thus, at present,
most domestic tariffs (in particular the annual subscriber rental charge and
the local call rate) are very low, especially when compared with those of a
sample of other countries (Annex 6.4). Considering the presently high level
of inflation and the repeated devaluation of the kip, the appraisal mission
discussed with MCTPC and EPTL the need to increase domestic tariffs
significantly. As a result EPTL has applied to the Government for domestic
tariff increases averaging between 80% and 100%, emphasizing the importance
of this matter for EPTL's financial health. Adjustments in domestic tariffs
yielding an increase of about 80% of domestic revenues will, be a condition
of  effectiveness.    Because  of certain  inconsisten-.ies  in  the  tariff
structure, EPTL has agreed during negotiations that its consultants will
study the structure and levels of telecommunications tariffs prior to end-
1990, taking account of EPTL's financial commitments and covenants.   The
Government and EPTL have also provided an undertaking to adjust tariffs as
needed to meet financial covenants. Overall tariff adjustments yielding a



- 24 -
telecommunications revenue increase of about 10 will likely be needed during
the period 1991-95.
Projected Financial Performance: Telecommunications Operations
Strategy
6.11        Clearly,  the envisaged Program,   which will increase EPTL's
assets about 17-fold, will not only strain its technical and managerial
capabilities, but will also have a fundamental impact on its financial
health.    The  financial projections,  given below,  reflect conservative
forecasts of growth in telecommunications subscribers, traffic-flows, and
resulting revenues. Nevertheless, delays in program execution, lower than
envisaged traffic flows, or inadequately adjusted tariffs in the future could
jeopardize the realization of projected revenues and lead to financial
difficulties. Therefore, in addition to the technical safeguards to be taken
under the Project (turnkey contracting, technical assistance in project
management to assure efficient project execution, training of staff, etc.),
special financial precautions need to be taken to safeguard the company's
finalicial viability.  The most important of these include the infusion of
suf f lo ext eauity so that debt remains at or below levels that can be served
with EPTL cash generation even under adverse conditions (para. 5.11, 6.16,
6.18); and the assurance that the Government and EPTL maintain tariffs at
adequate levels (para. 6.10).  The following projections which deal with
EPTL's telecommunications operations only, are based on those important
principles.
Assumptions
6.12        Detailed financial projections  for EPTL's telecommunications
operation for the period 1989-2000 are shown in Annexes 6.5 to 6.6, with
assumptions for the projections contained in Annex 6.5. The projections are
based on assumptions regarding the timing of implementation of the Program
components (capacities, subscriber connections), and reflect increasing
levels of traffic within the expanding network, and resulting costs and
revenues (with particularly important growth of interprovincial and
international traffic).   All costs and revenues have been derived in US
dollars; projections have been carried out in current US dollar terms until
1995  and held constant  thereafter.    Selected indicators  of  financial
performance, projected for the period 1989-98, are summarized in Table 6.3.



- 25 _
Table 6.3: EPTL Telecommunications Operations
Financial Projections 1989-1998
(Current US$ '000)
Year                  1989  1990  1991  1992  1998  1994  1996  1996  1997  1998
Operating Revenue     1829  2185  2810  8476  4912  6162  7068  7769  8480  9294
of which in FX    1089  1217  1880  1924  2677  8417  4065  4652  6041  665s
Operating Expenditure    690   988  1045  1691  2821  8099  8210  8262  8281  8290
Operating Income       689  1197  1265  1784  2290  8068  8968  4508  5199  6004
Interest                 7     1     1   878   962  1924  1861  1861  1787  1618
Not Income             607  1009  1054   979   6s5   884  1029  1708  2488  8140
In-dicators and Ratios
Op. Ratio             0.62  0.44  0.46  0.49  0.68  0.60  0.46  0.42  0.89  0.86
Current Ratio         8.92  4.44  4.26  6.22  6.76  6.88  1.89  1.91  1.98  1.88
Debt/Equlty Ratio     0.46  0.80  1.08  1.07  1.06  1.16  1.16  1.12  1.08  1.08
Debt Service
Coverage (times)        18   216   177     6      2     8     8      2     2     2
Self-Financing Ratio    11.8X 12.6X  7.8X 22.9s  9o.5x  846x   nc    nc    ne    nc
Return on Equity       8.4   9.3%  .63X  4.1%  2.6%  1.4X  4.EX  7.7% 11.6%  M12%
Roturn on Assets        .0OX  5.8%  2.8%  2.1%  1.3%  0.7X  2.2%  8.8%  S."%  7.8S
Revo,ve/iine (US$) e/   196   268   248    5   887   89s   879   416   464   497
Op. Exp./line (USS) a/   102   l16   III   168   196   192   172   16   1.76   178
&/ constant 1989 termas
nc = not calculated (no further Investment Is assumed In the model)
6.13           The US dollar-based projections imply: (a) on the cost side,
domestic inflation is accounted for automatically; (b) on the revenue side
regular adjustments of domestic tariffs take place in line with inflation .
Tariffs have been kept constant in current US dollar terms, implying a
declining trend in real terms.   However, they have been adjusted for the
anticipaLed increase of domestic tariffs by 802 as of January 1, 1990. For
1991 and beyond, EPTL would be able to meet its agreed financial performance
requirements (paras. 6.17, 6.18), with only one overall tariff adjustment to
yield a revenue increase of about 102 during the period 1990-95 (in current
US dollar terms).   This would still represent a tariff decrease of 232 in
real dollar terms (para. 7.04). With respect to operating costs, the same
level of inflation has been applied to all expenditures (estimated in mid-
1989 terms in US dollars), as is applied to the capital cost streams (para.
5.08).
6.14         Given the major expansion of EPTL (17-fold in terms ot assets),
and the inability of the Government and EPTL to raise tariffs fast enough to
provide adequate cash generation for the major investments envisaged, the
projections had to call for a sufficient level of equity to allow EPTL to
service debt and contribute to financing out of own cash generation.   The
projections have attempted to maximize the debt burden which EPTL could
reasonably carry, while maintaining an adequate financial health. This calls
for a relatively high level of equity (slightly less than 40% of total
Project investments) to be passed to EPTL out of the external financing tc
the Government. The projections do not assume investments beyond 1995, which
is an artificial assumption and explains why some indicators, e.g. the self-
financing ratio, are not in a normal range beyond 1995.



- 26 -
Proiected Performance
6.15        Based on the above assumptions, the projections show a strong
performance of EPTL telecommunications operations. With envisaged tariff
increases, as derived from the analysis, all financial indicators develop
favorably during the two critical periods ahead: (a) the program
implementation period 1990-95, where substantial cash generation is required,
and (b) the onset of the period of principal rspayments starting in 1996.
Whereas profits show a dip between 1992 and 1994 (due to the start of partial
interest payments related to assets moving from construction to operating
stage), operating cash flow remains healthy throughout the projection period.
EPTL's operating ratio is expected to be satisfactory, ranging between 441
and 531 after installation and connection of main componertts under tils
proposed Project. The solid equity base and continued generation of cash,
which  is reinvested  during  the  .rogram period,  result  ia a maximur,
debt/equity ratio of 54/46 (1.16) in 1995, and contribute significantly to
the financially solid performance.   Net internal cash generation as a
percentage of the average of the current and next year's investment is
expected to exceed 10Q.  While this seems low, it would be a commendable
achievement in light of the huge invest-ment envisaged and relatively small
tariff adjustments. The annual rate of return after tax on average net fixed
assets in operation is expected to range between a low 1X in 1994, 61 at the
end of project implementation, and 81 by 1998.
Financinif. Exchange Risk and Debt Service Coverage
6.16        The financing and capitalization plan for the Program was
formulated based on strict guidelines for EPTL's financial condition,
including a strong equity base as well as favorable working capital margins
and other desirable conditions assuring financial liquidity.  In spite of
EPTL's favorable historic performance and liquid financial condition, the
rspid expansion of its asset base and volume of transactions could cause
serious disruptions with negative consequences for the financial performance
without a healthy debt/equity ratio.
6.17        Cash generation during the construction period is maintained at
a respectable level with the self-financing ratio not dropping below 7.51 but
with the two-year averages above 101. During negotiations, agreement has
been obtained that EPTL will take necessary steps to generate sufficient
cash, after coverage of costs and debt service, to fund at least 51 of the
two-year average of its Program during 1990 to 1992, and at least 151
thereafter.
6.18        Debt  service  coverage  of  EPTL  is  projected  to  be  very
satisfactory due to the strong equity base.   As principal repayments
commence, it is projected to remain above 2 throughout the projection period.
This will be monitored closely.   EPTL will take the necessary action to
maintain a debt service coverage on the debt extended to it by the
Government, of at least 1.5 times.  Agreements to this effect have been
obtained during negotiations.



- 27 -
Dividnds
6.19        The ability to pay out dividends as a result of excess funds
generated is an important measure of the company's projected financial
health. Whereas up to 1993 all generated cash is needed for the Program, in
1994 the company could pay out a sizeable dividend of US$2 6 million.
Considering the risks of delay or shortfalls of cash generation however,
agreement has been obtained from the Government and EPTL during negotiations
that EPTL will not declare or pay out any dividends until all investments
under the Program are completed.
VII.  EONOMIC ANALYSI
Benefits
7.01        Among the key objectives of the Government of Lao PDR are
regional development, integration of the geographically large country with
a low population density, and promotion of exports.  Inadequate telecom-
munications facilities are a major constraint to meeting those objectives in
a eountry which is also short of other iiafrastructure, notably transport
facilities. Improvements in the telecommunications sector are crucial for
promoting the growth and efficiency of business in a'l sectors of the
economy.
7.02        The creation of a basic nation-wide telecommunications network,
as proposed under the Program, will provide the basis for further systematic
development of telecommunications even into more remote areas of the country.
In this sense, the program will contribute to the Government's efforts to
develop and integrate the country's economy through improved economic
efficiency and will permit delivery of improved services throughout the
country.   Specifically the proposed Project will help (a) improve the
efficiency of public and private enterprises in the major urban centers,
Vientiane, Luang Prabang, Paksane, Thakhek, Savannakhet, and Pakse through
improved communications with suppliers, clients, financial and other
institutions; (b) increase productivity and marketing of rural communities
by providing faster access to market information; and (c) improve the
efficiency of transportation by facilitating coordination of vehicle use with
transport demand, and by substituting communications for travel. About 5,200
existing telephone subscribers, and about 9,500 new subscribers to be
connected under the Project, will benefit from (a) improved access to, and
quality of services, particularly in Vientiane, where the cable network has
deteriorated significantly, and (b) major improvements in international and
Jnterprovincial telecommunications. Redeployment of existing HF equipment
will benefit more remote provinces. Last but not least, the Government will
benefit significantly from enhanced resource mobilization (para. 7.03).
Resource Mobilization
7.03        EPTL will continue its role as an important source of revenue to
Government, albeit in a much larger dimension, than in the past. Unlike
other public sector enterprises which may need to receive extended budget
support, EPTL will provide funds to the Government in the form of taxes, debt
service payments on the commercial loan extended by the Government, and



- 28 -
eventually dividends on equity contributions.   During groiect execution
(1990-95), EPTL will not pay out dividends although, based on financial
projections, it could do so starting in 1994 (US$ 2.6 millioul). On the other
hand, accumulated taxes during the period would amount to US$1.3 million; and
interest payments on the loan from the Government, net of service charges on
the IDA credits, would amount to US$5.2 million. Over the period 1996 to
1998, Er-iL, assuming no further investment, could contribute to the
government budget an estimated US$10.9 million equivalent in cash payout
(dividends), US$1.3 million in taxes, and US$8.6 million in debt service pay-
ments net of service payments by the Government for the IDA credits. Thus,
during the period 1996 to 1998, the average annual transfer to the Government
would amount to about US$7.5 million, assuming no further investment.
Return on Investment
7.04         The financial rate of return after taxes (FRR) for the Program
is 12X (Annex 7.1).  This rate is based on the financial projections as
reflected in Table 6.3 and Annex 6.6. Incremental revenues derive from (i)
improved call completion rates in line with increased quality and reliability
of the new system, (ii) increased traffic because of new subscribers and
higher telephone density, (iii) rapidly growing interprovincial traffic, as
well as (iv) significant ine-reases resulting from the projected improvements
in quality of service.   Incremental costs result from the costs of the
Program, increased by the difference between projected operating costs under
the Investment Project and operating costs derived under a "without-
investment-scenario" (Annex 7.1).
7.05        An adjusted FRR has been calculated as an approxiiration of the
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) to test the Program against the opportunity
cost of capital in Lao PDR. The adjusted FRR has been derived by adjusting
cost streams for tranisfer payments, i.e., the income tax to be paid by EPTL.
Adjustments have also been made on operating costs (conversion factors for
skilled and unskilled  labor,  border-prices  for electricity).          Since
materials, spares, fuel and transport costs are predominantly imported items,
reflecting border-prices, no adjustment has been necessary there. The above
adjustments suggest that border prices for the aggregate of operating costs
are about 12X higher than financial operating costs.  (Annex 7.1).   In
contrast with the financial analysis, revenues, in the economic analysis,
except for adjustments on domestic tariffs by 80X in January 1990, have been
kept constant in current dollar terms until 1995, meaning that they decline
in real dollar terms by about 33X during the period. After 1995, all costs
and revenues have been kept constant in US dollar terms (paras. 6.10, 6.13
and Annex 7.1 Table A). The resulting adjusted FRR comes to 11.11, which is
an acceptable return.
7.06        The adjusted FRR for the Program underestimates the economic rate
of return, since it (a) assumes declines in tariffs in real terms, and (b)
does not capture the full consumer surplus accruing to existing and potential
subscribers.   It is reported that private Lao business persons would be
willing to pay considerably more than present connection charges if they
could get a telephone.  Similarly, provincial subscribers would be willing
to pay substantially more than the interprovincial tariff, if a quality
connection were obtainable.   To account for part of the consumer surplus
resulting from the better accessibility to, and quality of services



- 29 -
throughout the country, an ERR has been calculated on the basis of the
adjusted FRR, which incorporates the overall tariff increase of about 10%
during project execution, contained in the financial projectlons. This would
still pass on to consumers up to 23% of reductions of tariffs in real dollar
terms.   The resulting ERR (Annex 7.1 Table B) amounts to about 13%.  If
tariffs were allowed to increase in line with inflation until 1995, i.e.,
remaining constant in real dollar terms, the resulting ERR would be about
17%.
7.07        Although the adjusted FRR of the Program is acceptable, it is
lower than it would have been, had investments been concentrated only in
Vientiane.  This is because the Program incorporates quasi-rural services in
the north and south of the country which initially contribute relatifely
little to the revenue streams. If the Program only financed the Vientiane
exchange and cable network, without covering the less profitable provincial
connections, exchanges and networks, the adjusted FRR would increase to about
13% (para. 7.08). Moreover, the adjusted FRR is low since it only assesses
tha first phase of a major network development. If additional investments
going beyond the first phase of the network development were to be taken into
account, resulting increased utilization of assets provided under the first
phase would yield substantially increased benefits.
7.08        Based on above indications regarding the difference between rates
of return for the overall Program and for an expansion of the Vientianm
system only, it must be concluded tnat rates of return for some of the
provincial cities might be slightly below 10%.  While rapidly increasing
interprovincial and international traffic in the new integrated system are
forecast to cause revenues in all provinces to exceed cash expenditures after
project implementation, an ERR slightly below 10% might be considered a less
than acceptable investment. On the other hand, the rationale for proceeding
with the investment is clear: (i) the backbone network is needed in light of
the Government strategy to link the distant parts of the country with the
capital and the rest of the world, and (ii) as the name suggests, the
backbone is only a first phase for a more comprehensive network development,
with substantial additional benefits not materializing until later, and
therefore unquantifiable at this time.
7.09        Sensitivity analysis on the ERR indicates that, when combining
a 10% increase in capital costs with a 10% increase in operating costs, and
with a 10% drop in revenues, the resulting ERR would still be about 10%.
Slippage of project completion and resulting slippage of operating costs and
revenues by one year would result in an ERR of about 11% (Annex 7.1, page 6).
Least-Cost Solution
7.10        The configuration of EPTL's existing facilities does not pose a
major constraint to developing alternative development plans for EPTL's
future telecommunications network, since most of the existing facilities will
be replaced under the agreed Program.   In the design of the Investment
Program for 1990-95, care has been taken to select optimal configurations
which help minimize costs of the envisaged network.   Thus the scope,
dimensioning, and timing of implementation of the major project components
are based on assumptions, and, in part, detailed analyses anid calculations
which will minimize the cost of the program. In this regard, the digital



. 30 -
exchanges and their microwave links as envisaged under the program represent
a least cost solution for the basic network development of the country.
Environmental and Health fisects
7.11        Implementation and operation of facilities to be provided under
the Program will not create adverse environmental or health effects. On the
contrary, improved access to and quality of telecommuni- cations services
will fAcilitate the provision of routine and emergency medic-. services,
particularly in the more remote areas of the country. Substitution of
telecommunications services for inefficient transport services will help to
conserve energy and contribute to reducing environmental damage from
unnecessary transport. In the urnkey contra ts for the transmission system
and the cable networks which involve access roads and cable installation
below ground, provisions will call for environmentally sound execution.
Project Risks
7.12        The major risk of the Project is a delay of project implementa-
tion and disruption during early operations as a result of limited experience
and lack of training of EPTL staff. This, in turn, would jeopardize EPTL's
ability to generate sufficient cash to meet its project- and financial
obligations. To mitigate this risk, several measures are taken under the
Project: suppliers of equipment will be required to install their equipment
and operate it for an adequate period of time to permit on-the-job training
of EPTL personnel (para. 5.06, part A (d)); a comprehensive training program,
building on ongoing efforts and emphasizing the digital nature of equipment,
will be carried out; and technical standards of project execution and
operation will be agreed with EPTL, reinforced by technical assistance, from
consultants and applied by the suppliers' technical personnel (paras. 4.06,
5.12).
7.13        On the financial side, EPTL's strong capitalization will be the
cornerstone of its healthy financial structure.   Financial covenants are
further designed to safeguard a strong financial performance.
7.14        Close  supervision  of  the  project  (Annex  5.7)  and  strong
coordination between IDA, UNDP, ITU and Government/EPTL are needed to assist
EPTL in addressing the above risks.



- 31 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMKENDATION
Agreements Reached during Negotiations
8.01        The following agreements have bee:, obtained during negotiations:
(a)   Insastment Program:  EPTL and the Government will carry out an annual
review and update of EPTL's Investment Program 1990-95 in consultation
with the Association (para. 5.03);
(b)   Institutional Strengthening:  (i) A humexn resource development program
for 1990-95 has been reviewed and agreed with the Association during
negotiations and will be implemented witi. the help of consultants
acceptable to the Association (para. 4.05); (ii) EPTL will maintain a
database with agreed key parameters; will agree on each September 30
projected targets for the coming two fiscal years; and will provide
progress  reports  on  training,   technical  assistance,   Project
implementation and a Project Completion (paras. 4.12, 5.19 to 5.21);
(c)   Accounting System:  Before end-1990 EPTL will review and agree with
IDA an improved accounting system; will train its staff in Vientiane
and the five major provinces in its use during 1991-92; and will apply
it in those places from 1993; and submit to IDA by end-1993 plans for
improving accounting systems in the remaining p:ovinces (para. 4.09);
(d)   Tariffs:  EPTL and its consultants will study the structure and levels
of telecommunications tariffs prior to end-1990, taking account of
EPTL's financial commitments and covenants (para. 6.10);
(e)   Financial Covenants:  EPTL will 'i) maintain a debt service coverage
ratio of at least 1.5 times (para. 6.18); (ii) take action to generate
sufficient cash, after coverage of costs and debt service, to fund at
least 5X or the two-year average of its Program during 1990 to 1992,
and at least 15X thereafter (para. 6.17); (iii) not declare or pay out
dividends before the completion of the Program (para. 6.19); (iv)
implement an acceptable program to collect, or if not possible, to
write off overdue accounts receivable predating 1988, and there- after,
to maintain accounts receivable at acceptable levels (paras. 4.10,
6.07, 6.09); (v) have its financial statements audited and submit to
the Association unaudited and audited financial state- ments and
r.sports within certain specified delays (paras. 4.11, 5.21); and (vi)
continue maintaining its fixed assets registered in foreign exchange,
and for the purpose of its annual accounts, convert the value of its
fixed asset accounts to Kip at the rate of exchange prevailing on the
last day of its financial year (para 6.09).
Undertakings Obtained during Negotiations
8.02        The following uaidertakings have been provided by EPTL during
negotiations:
(a)   EPTL will establish a Project Management Unit by March 1990 and
implement certain organizational changes by end 1990 (para. 4.02);



- 32 -
(b)   EPTL will fully separate its postal and telecomrunications accounts in
Vientiane and the five major provinces effective January 1, 1994; and
implement the plans for an improved accounting system in the remaining
provinces during 1994-95 (para. 4.09);
(c)   After 1990, Lhe Government and EPTL will adjust tariffs Zs needed to
meet financial covenants (para. 6.10);
Proposed Conditions of Effectiveness:
8.03        Effectiveness of the proposed Credit will be conditional on the
following additional events:
(a)   Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Govern'ent and EPTL
for the IDA Credit and reflecting acceptable onlending arrangements
from the Government to EPTL (para. 5.11);
(b)   An increase of about 80X, on average, on the domestic tariffs.
(c)   Appointment of consultants to assist EPTL in project management,
implementation, training, institutional and financial development,
planning, maintenance and operation (para. 4.07).
Recommendation:
8.04        Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposud
Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 19.1 million (US$ 24.5 million)
on standard terms to the Government of the Lao PDR.



-    -                 ~:nnx S.1
LAO POR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
T.lcommunicatlonu Factl tleo
A: Telephone Exchanges (Jun. 80, 1989)
Typonof      No. of         Liny         Number of
Exchange    Exchanges     Cepac ty      Subscriboru
1 ATTOPEU                        M           8             180             48
2 BOKEO                          M           a             18o             46
8 0OLIKHAMSAI                    A            1            100             46
4 CHAMPASSACK                    A            1            200            204
N           6            170             84
5 KNAUMOUANE                     A            1             74             74
N           5             70             45
6I4CUAPMAN                       A            I            100             91
8           6 M18                        89
7 LUANG NAMTHA                   M           8             160             48
8 LUANO PRABANO                  A            1            208            208
N           7            146             80
9 OUDOMSAI                       A            1             50             48
A           6            160             57
10 PHONQSALY                      l           6             140             84
1 SARAVANE                        A            1             so             47
U           6            170             57
12 SAVANNAKGET                    A            2            250            247
N           7            180             so
18 SAYABOURY                      M            2            150             48
14 SEKONO                         1            1             20             19
16 VIENTIANE (Prefecture)         A            7           6250           4864
16 VIENTIANE SProv1nco)           A            1            100             74
17 XIANOKHOUANO                   M            6            170             77
A          17           6882           6842      87.1X
N          67           2088            844      12.911
Total      84           8468           6526    100.0l
(e)  A: Automatic   M: Manual
Source: EPTL
July, 19S9



- 34 -
Annex 3.1
Page 2/2
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Telecommunications Facilities
B: Transmission Network
Type of Link
Links                       (*)                Service
NATIONAL CIRCUITS
Attopeu                     HF
Bokeo                       HF
Luang Prabang               HF
Oudomsai                    HF
Paksane                     HF
Pakse                       HF
Phonehong                   HF                 One circuit from Vientiane
Phongsaly                   HF                 to each city for telephone
Samneua                     HF                 and telegraph service
Saravane                    HF
Savannakhet                 HF
Sayaboury                   HF
Sekong                      HF
Thakhek                     HF
Xiangkhouang                HP
INTERNATIONAL CIRCUITS
BANGKOK                     MW                 8 TF + 1 TG + 1 TX
HANOI                       Satellite          1 TF + 1 TG
HONGKONG                    HF                 1 TF + 1 TG + 2 TX
MOSCOw                      Satellite          1 TF + 1 TG + 2 TX
(*)  MW: microwave link   TF: Telephone   TG: Telegraph   TX: Telex
Source: EPTL
July, 1989



35 -
Annex 3.2
LAO POR                                                   Page 1/3
ENTREPRISE O'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOIMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Historic Telecoaunications  Data
A. Growth of the Telecom unications Network: 1983-1989
Six Annual Annual
Months Growth Growth
Year a/                                   1983      1984     1985      1986    198?    !912      1989  83-88   85-88 b/
TELEPHONE
1. No. of Exchanges                       n.a.     n.a.      n.a.        77      83       83       84    n.a.      3.8X
-Autoratic                             n.a.     n.a.      n.a.        10      14       14       17    n.a.    18.3X
-Manual                                n.a.     n.a.      n.a.       67       69      69        67    n.a.      1.5X
2. Capacity of Exchanges                 7,9S9    7,959    9,159    8.280   8,510   8.440    8,468         1.2X    1.1l
-Automatic                            S,675    5,675    5.875    5,974   6,124   6.314    6,382        2.2X    2.4X
-Manual                               2,284    2,284    2,284    2,306   2,386   2,126    2.086    -1.4X   -2.4X
3. Subscriber Categories (Vientiane)
-Residential                                                                          52K       52K   n.a.    n.a.
-Business (Gcv. I Private)                                                            31X       31X   n.a.    n.a.
-Government Offices                                                                    9X        9%   n.a.    n.a.
-Foreign Entities S Persons                                                            8X        8%   n.a.    n.a.
4. No. of Subscribers (lines in Service)
-Automatic, End of Period             4,031    4,383    4.731    4,937   5,265   5,599    5,682        6.8K    5.8K
-Manual, End of Period                1,371    1.159    1,141       915      966     869       844    -8.7X   -8.7X
-Total, End of Period                 5.402    5,542    5.872    S,852   6,231   6.468    6.526        3.7K    3.3;
-Total, Average during Period         5.402    5,472    5,707    5,862   6,042   6.350    6,497        3.3K    3.6X
S. No. of Public Call Offices             n.a.     n.a.        13        20       3        8        8    n.a.   -14.9%
TELEX
1. Telex Exchange Capacity c/              190       190      190       190     190     190       190     0.0K    0.0O
2. Subscribers
-At End of Period                        33       35        40       37       49      52        54     9.5K    9.1K
-Average during Period                   33       34        38       39       43      51        53     8.9K   10.4X
TELEGRAM
1. No. of Telegraph Offices               n.a.     n.a.      n.a.       113     118     118       118    n.a.      2.2%
a/ As of January 1, unless otherwise indicated
b/ Annual Growth Rate is for 1985 to 1988, unless data only available for shorter period
c/ 130 lines out of service since 1980 due to lack of parts and accessories
n.a. * Information not available
Source: EPTL/Bankstaff
October 1989



- 36 -
Annex 3.2
LAO POR                                                       Page 2/3
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMNUNICATIONS PROJECT
Historic Tolecommunications Data
8. Growth of the Telecommnications Traffic: 1983-1989
Annual Annual
6 Months Growth Growth
Year                                       1983     1984      1985     1986    1987    1988       1989   83-88   85-85
TELEPHONE
1. Local Calls ('000)                    3,408    3,741    4,349    4,632   6,004   6,200    2,558    12.7%   12.5%
-Calls/line                             631       684       762      790      994     976       394      9.1%    8.6%
-rharged Calls/line                    n.a.      n.a.       196      321      425     678       453    n.a.    51.1%
-Charged Calls/line MX)                n.a.      n.a.        26       41       43      69       115    n.a.    39.1%
2. Interprov.Calls ('000 Minutes)            22       24        25       39      119      124       78    41.3%   70.5%
-Minutes/line                             4         4         4        7       20      20        12    36.8%   64.6%
-Charged Minutes/line                  n.a.      n.a.       0.0      0.0      0.2     0.2       0.1    n.a.    80.1%
-Charged Minutes/line (X)              n.a.      n.a.         1        0        1       1         1    n.a.      9.4%
3.  nternational Calls ('000 Min.)         372       383       374      435      661     755       453    15.2%   26.4%
-Transmitted ('000 M1n.)                165       168       136      165      264     290       184    11.9%   28.7%
-Received ('000 Min.)                   207       215      238       270      397     465       268    17.6%   25.0%
-Transmitted Minutes/line                31        31        24       28       44      46        28     8.4%   24.2%
-Received Minutes/line                   38        39       42        46       66      73        41    13.8%   20.6%
TELEX
1. Internatl.Messages ('000 Min.)           50        74       127      152      190     228       131    35.5%   21.5%
-Transmitted ('000 Min.)                 32        37        56       60       71      94        52    24.0%   18.8%
-Received ('000 Min.)                    18        37        71       93      119     135        79    49.6%   23.9%
-Transmitted Minutes/line               970    1,088    1,493    1,551   1,658   1,861          981    13.9%    7.6%
-Received Minutes/line                  545    1,088    1,893    2,405   2,758   2,673    1,491    37.4%   12.2%
TELEGRAM
1. National ('000 Words)                 1,797    1,825    2,516    3.730   3,054   4,044    2,177    17.6%   17.1%
2. International ('000 Words)               913      856       952      768      851   1,161       565.    4.9%    6.8%
-Transmitted ('000 Words)               195       177       187      185      205     179        99    -1.7%   -1.4%
-Received ('000 Words)                  718       679      765       583      646     982       467     6.5%    8.7%
n.a. - Information not available
Source: EPTL/Bankstaff
October 1989



- 37 -
Annex 3.2
LAO P0R                                                Page  3/3
ENTREPRISE O'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECO MUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICAT:ONS PROJECT
Historic Teleconminications Data
C. Growth of Telecommunications levenue ('000 KIP): 1983-89
Annual Annual
6 Months  Growth  Growth
Year                        1983      1984     1985      1986    1987    1988   1989    83-88   86-88 a/
TELEPHONE
<V I E N T I A N E ONLY>
Installation Charges       1,875    2,036   . 1,565    2.835   4,979   7,180                 30.86   59.1X
Rental Fees                2,055    9.563   16,189   34.929  39,604  98,328                 116.8%   67.8%
Local Calls                1,811       912    8,954   15.534  21.680  36,804                 82.6X   53.9%
Interprovincial Calls         15        52        8         4       54      52               28.27  260.67
International Calls        6,511    7,039    7,896   29,452  36.306 148,219                  86.8%  124.37
Other Revenues                 0         0       32  .   163       623   2,419              322.87  285.27
Provincial Offices             0         0        0   47.428  39,543  60,668                 13.17   13.1X
Subtotal TELEPHONE    12,267   19,652   34,644  130,345 142,789 353,670  255.668    95.9X   64.7X
TELEX
Installation Charges          36       95        9S        64       83   1,442              109.2%  374 7%
Rental Fees                    3       587    1.172    8,838   3,072  26,527                515.6%   73.2%
Interprov.Mssgs.               0         0        0         0        0       0                0.0%    0.0X
Internatl.Messgs.         6,024    8,924    9,760   15,824  25,368  77,059                   66.57  120.7%
Repair & Other                 0         0         0    1,236   1,012   2,552                43.7%   43.7%
Subtotal TELEX           6,063    9,606   11,027   25,962  29,535 107,580   81,885    77.7%  103.6%
TELEGRAM
Inland Messages               **       **    3,241    3,304   3,993   4,273                   9.7X   i3.7'.
Internatl. Messages       6,256    6,084    4,787   10,525  10,683  17,734                   23.2%   29 2%
Other                        698       636      877    2,669   2,490   5,407                 50.6%   12 3,;
Subtotal TELEGRAM       6,954    6,720    8,905   16,498  17,166  27,414   36,606    31.6%   28.9%
TOTAL TELECON. REVENUE  25,284   35.978   54,576  172,805 189,490 488.664  374.159    80.8%   68.2%
Of which in USS(OOO)       n.a.     n.a.       438       577      677     707-      445    n.a.    10.7%
Of which in KIP(OOO)       n.a.     n.a.   39,243  117,952 125,167 220,176  173,949    n.a.    36.6%
Exchange rate:  USS1D         35        35       35        95       95     380       450    61.1%  100 0%
a/   Annual Growth Rates are for 1986 to 1988, contrary to data on orevious tables, since
certain revenue data not availble for entire country prior to 1986
*/ Value included elsewhere
n.a. Information not available
Source: EPTL/Bankstaff
October 1989
.



- 38 -
Annex 8.8
LAO POR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
International Tratfic, 1987-08
Outgoing                   Incoming                    Total
Country               1987   19888/87 (N)    1987         1986 88/87 ()    1987      1988 88/87 (1)
International Telophone Traffic (MInutos)
sANaKfK (Di rot)  201,039  241.260      20.0  861,801  881,694      8.7 652,897  622,960      12.b
"IAOIZ KOr          11,840   10;421     -8.1  19,978   15,865    -28.1  81,818   25.786   -17.7
utral                8,846    8,090     -7.7   6,249    6,007    -19.9   9,605    8,097    -15.6
United se           10,706   11,608      8.4  24,282   22,711      -4.8  84,988   84,819    -1.8
Other CountrIes     17,189   10,890    -80.6  12,860   11,742      -5.0   :9,499   22,682   -28.8
VIA UOSubbotal:   81,191   26,688    -18.0  42,841   89,460        -7.9  '74,082  65,048    -12.1
France               1,140    4,884    280.2       48      692   1276.7   1,188    4,926    816.4
Soviet Union         7,119    56 78    -20.8  20,881   27,476      86.1  27,460    8, 149     20.6
Other Countrie       1,219    1,184     -7.0       78       49    -82.9   1,292    1,188    -8.4
SUbtta:      9,478   11,141     17.5  20,447   26,117      87.5  29,925   89,258      81.2
SbTOTAL:  258,105  288,416   14.0 434,662  464,686       6.9 687,667  758,052       9.5
International Teleograh Traffic (Words)
BANGKOK Dir::t)    10,528    6,058    -42.6  28,801   80,676       8.4  88,829   86,729      -5.4
HANOI CD ract)      27,579   25,907     4.1   28,156  88,010    68.0  60,894   68,917         25.6
VIA HO114 KONG:
France               4,461    8 488    -28.4  25,002   44,676      78.8  29,488   48,008      62.8
Hon Kons             5,011    2,179    -6e.6   2,779   18,196    874.8   7,790   15,876       97.4
Unitd Sta           28,064   16,460    -28.6  814,498  420,251     88.6  887,562  486,711     29.4
Other Countr lee    24,166   14,649    -89.4  29,951   62,628    109.1  54,117   77,277       42.8
Subtotal:  56,722   88,721    -85.8  872,280  640,650      45.2  428,952  577,871     84.6
VIA MOSCOW:
Hungry"              1,925    5,907    208.9   8,656    6,698      60.2   5,481   11,W60    111.7
Kpuha, Dem.          4,295    7,975     85.7       69    8,228   4578.8    4,864   11,208    168.7
Moncol l            12,6      7,189    -42.7    2,826      947    -59.8   14,874    8,186    -45.8
Sovi t Union         2,924    8,784    200.4  88,576   89,161       1.5  41,500   47,945       16.5
Ote0 r C"utrioe     12,991   11,176    -14.0  18,728   11,497    -16.2  26,714   22,678    -15.1
Subtotal:   84,681   41,081    18.8  58,252   60,581        8.9  9298101,562           9.8
T rectI    37,885    2,567    -85.8   2,127    8,814    814.4   19,462   11 271    -42.1
TOTAL: 146,845  112,169    -28.8  484,226  678,681      40.2  681,070  790,850     25.8
International Telex Traffic (Minutes)
Th17~:n              9,496   21,968    181.8   9,840   16,749      60.1   19,886   87,717     95.1
Other Countries         52      285    851.9        8        2    -76.0       6o      287    296.0
Subtotal:   9,648   22,208    182.6   9,848   16,761       69.9  19,896   87,954      95.7
VI HN  KONG:
Auetral  5O 6,81    8,914    -81.1    8 905    8 619               -7.8  s96s    7 568       -21.4
Japan               17:481    7:825    -55.2   80:974   25:727    -16.9  48:455   88:652    -80.8
United State         2,104    8,454     84.2   9,208   18,249      44.0  11,807   16,708      47.7
Other Countries     20,894   16,048    -21.8  26,181   29,202      11.5   46,656   45,246     -2.9
SuboAtal:  46,660   81,286    -81.0   70,268   71,797       2.2  115,928  103,033    -11.1
VIA IIOSCOW:
Soviet Union         8,990    5,840     88.8  12,717    9,578    -24.7  16,707   14,918    -10.7
Other Countrie.     65,748   51,844    -21.1  91,877   97,781       7.0  167,125  149,575      -4.8
Subtotel:  69,789   57,184    -18.0  104,094  107,809       8.1  173,832  164,493     -5.4
TOTAL: 124,946  110,628    -11.6  184,205  184,857       6.8  809,161  805,480    -1.2
Soyrce: EPTL
Iy, 1989



- 39 -
Ann-x 8.4
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOLAUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMUUNICATIONS PROJECT
Capacity and Traffic Proj3etlonn, 1989-9s
Year:    1989    1990    1901       10m      1998    1994    1995
TELEPHWE
Exchange Capecity (Line)
VIENTIANE                    4,060   6,060    5,050   11,800  11,800  11,800   11,800
Luang Prnbang                   216     216      216      216    1,024    1,024    1,024
Pnkeane                         100     100      100      200      200      200      200
Poke.                           200     200      200    1,024    1,024    1,024    1,024
Savennakhet                     264     264      264    1,024    1,024    1,024    1,024
Thekhok                         74       74       74      512      612      512      512
Others                        8,655    8,655    8,655    8,556   8,6ss   8,e66    8,866
TotalS    8,649    9,649   9,549   17,981   19,789   16,789   18,789
Lines in Service, End of Yr  6,964    8,240    6,499   10,525   18,659  16,709   17,299
Avg. No. of Subscribers       6,794    7,601    6,874   10,012   12,617   16,184   17,004
Local Collu ('000)            6,247    7,601    6,980   12,214   18,986   25,849   80,688
Nat'l LD Traffic ('OUO mnn)    128       18O     188      847      716    1,192    1,882
Internat'l Trof. ('000 mln)   1,142    1,846    1,675    2,880    8,668   4,970   6,265
-Outgoing                   489      516      644      982    1,465   1,988    2,602
-Incoming                   708      828    1,081    1,898    2,198    2,982    8,765
TELEX
Avg. No. of Subscribers          64      57       60       64       70       75       81
Internationnl Ieseages         280      241      264      266      280      298      308
-Transmitted                 87       92       96      101      106      112      117
-Received                   148      1S0      167      165      178      162      191
TELEORAPN
National (000G words)         8,841    8,649    8,466    8,298    8,128    2,972    2,823
Internst'l ('000 words)        782      674      620      670      525      483      444
-Tranamitted                102       94       8s       80       78       67       82
-Received                   680      580      584      490      462      418      382
Source: EPTL
July, 1989



Lao PDR - EPTL
Present Organization Chart )
MIflnlater 
of MCTPC
Vice
Mnlster PST
a Aviation
Gefleral
DIrector. EPTL
Dirctor            Dirctor            Drlatotr            Director           Director            Drectort
of Finane          of  elecom8.         at Peat           of Project         of ProAdnes         Admlnietrn.|
Ftnanol i          Management          Mnageennt          Planning           Attopou             General
Plnning           'Unit                Unit               Unit                                  -Administration
Accounting         Telephone           Poet               World              sokeo               Personnel 
Oftle             Sank Proelt                            Serviese
Construction       Tranemioelop        Prose              Austral$&          Bollkhhamea
Dlatribatlon       Satellite
Warehouses         satellite                              Maintenance        Champseamck
A Control
Marketing          Cable                                                      Khammouane
plant
HNcephan
Luang
Nam th
Luang
rabang
Oudomnal
Ph eongly
55 rave us
Savannakhat                                                                N
Say beary
Sakong
XlingkLoauang
* As Of 7/31/89



Lao PDR - EPTL
Proposed Organization Chart t)
MiololgI PAT
a Avtio3*n
r lOOk..A Pt..                                    A
Pro  uauuiog     _7619p00.           0..              30.              P 3posa.0lsoPIOI
OOamps...ok  CaShier       Houto#
I   ~        ~        ~        ~ a  I F 0 a a                      Pa
No. 000 801
:0.o.h.It                                                                           -
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o lelto Dun.                         gas p*F
DIsCuSSndlWith  EPTL  8/01/89
0000C
p^gnzine   T lpbon    PoutelAttope                         wIn0.l,.,,.& 0.3
~& eontol   dtw  o     Xdelr lit^ton               ~       PIan Sng. b0 lrP
I~~~~ ~ Discussedo wit  EPTLolo 8/01/89n



Annex 4.2
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMYUFICATIONS PROJECT
EPTL Staff by Category
(End of Year Statistics and Projections)
Vientiane Only
I ------I                           I    (s)
Category                    1984   1986   1986   1987   1998  I  1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   -.16
------Actunl I-- --- - I--- ----Forecrst--- -- ------
Engineers                      19     18      38     46     62l        31      3S     46      60     85      70     70
Tochnicians I                                        15      161        7      15     20      80     30      36     36
Technicians II                217    188    181    429    444  l    488    470    460    460    46C    44C.   440
Workers                       185    193    213    560    473       l 115   lS    116    120    120    135    136
Administrative                 20     82     46    280    320       i 118   l1S    110    tlO    110    1,0    110
Finance A Accounts             10     17     28      41     41  1      46      46     46      46     40      40     40
Total:    461    446    498  1,311  1,848  |   e04    795    796    816    816    830    830
TELECOM Personnel             282    289    300    760    793  |    804
POST Personnel                169    177    198    661    668  I   434
Tf. Lines in Service                              6,231  8,468  I 6,964  8,248  8,499 10,625 13,659 16,709 17,299
TELECOM Staff/1000 Lines                            122    us8        118      98     94      77     SO     s0      48
(e)  From 1989 to 1990, lnformtior by category Is given for telecommunications staff only.
A new stff classification was introduced in May 1989.
Source: EPTL/Bankstaff
July, 1989



Annex 4.3
43 -
Page 1/4
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOIUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Introduction
1.    The Project includes technical assistance to be provided to EPTL for (i)
project management; (ii) institutional development, including strengthening of
EPTL's capabilities of management, corporate planning, finance and accounting,
engineering, operations and maintenance.
2.    EPTL, assisted by its present consultants, will prepare detailed Terms of
Reference for this technical assistance.
Project Management
3.    The consultants  shall provide EPTL with the organization,  staff and
infrastructure necessary for management of the total scope of work related to
the Second Telecommunications Program.  The broad tasks for which the Project
Management consultants will be employed ares
a)    to assist in ensuring technical integration among all parts of the
domestic network and its technical interface with international
networks;
b)    to coordinate and supervise procurement, installation, acceptance
testing and commissioning of all equipment items and civil works;
c)    to provide support to EPTL in the administration of all contracts
for equipment supplies and civil works.
4.    The consultants will review the fundamental plans (transmission, switching
and routing, signalling, numbering, charging, and synchronization)
developed by EPTL and its present consultants in relation to the project
components and, if necessary, will complement them.
5.    Initial activities in the procurement cycle (mainly preparation of tender
documents) will be developed by present EPTL's consultants. The new consultants'
role will include, but not be limited to the following:
a)    ass' t EPTL in answering bidders' queries on tender documents and
parJicipate in bidders' conferences;
b)    evaluation of bids,  and preparation of technical and financial
reports with recommendations on contract award;
c)    after EPTL management's  decision on  selection of  contractors,
drafting contracts and assisting in contract negotiations and award;



44 -                             Annex 4.3
Page 2/4
6.    The consultants shall provide detailed support in the administration of
contracts through:
a)    review and approval of all contractors' submissions in respect of
conformity with the Project objectives, engineering design,
specifications, schedules, lists of equipment, installation and
maintenance test equipment, tools and spare parts, installation and
acceptance test procedures, etc.;
b)    monitoring of delivery and installation/construction schedules;
c)    verification  of types  and quantities  of equipment,  materials,
documentation, software, etc. supplied by contractors, to ensure
conformity to contracts;
d)    coordination in implementation of diff.rent program components and
resolution of problems that may arise between contractors;
e)    supervision of equipment installation and civil work construction,
to ensure quality and completeness;
L)    preparation of schedules for and conductance of acceptance tests;
g)    commissioning of equipment;
h)    assistance in resolution of problems that arise with equipment during
the warranty period; and
i)    support in the coordination and implementation of works under iPTL's
direct respansibility.
Instltutional Development
7.    The  technical  assistance  shall  also  aim  towards  the  institutional
strengthening of EPTL and improvement of the quality of service.   Its main
elements will be: (i) to assist in the establishment of the new organization
proposed for EPTL; (ii) to institute the basis for effective planning and project
contrel systems; (iii) to implement new financial and accounting systems, in
accordance with Government guidelines; (iv) to introduce a management information
system, data bases and procedures that allow for permanent performance
monitoring, appropriate maintenance of the plant installed, and service quality
control, and form the basis for planning the future network development.
Development Unit
8.    New EPTL's organization involves establishing a development unit which will
act as the consultants' counterpart, with the following general responsibilities:
a)    assist in reviewing Government's economic ard social development
plans to determine what telecommunications facilities are required
and to determine corresponding strategies and priorities;
b)    undertake strategic and corporate plarning functions, special studies
on the economic development of the sector, and studies for adapting
technologies to meet the local environment;



- 45 -                            Annex 4.3
Page 3/4
c)    set up an engineering costing system to provide accurate costs for
the control of operations and construction and provide management
with information for planning, budgeting, tariff setting, and general
development decisions;
d)    prepare  a  planning  manual  with  engineering  instructions  and
procedures for rational development of the network.
e)    prepare detailed designs for network components (local networks,
transmission link engineering, power supply, civil works, etc.>;
f)    develop and maintain a traffic forecasting system;
g)    coordinate and monitor all procurement, installation, construction,
acceptance tests, and commissioning activities.
h)    catalogue the existing telecommunications facilities, their location,
condition and age.
Operations and Maintenance
9.    The consultants will review current operations and maintenance procedures
at headquarters and regional levels and will propose suitable standards in light
of the expanded network and new technology. They vill also propose standards
for quality of service and will establish a subscriber plant record-keeping
system and proc,.Aures for continuous traffic measurement.  Assistance should be
provided to EPTL in organizing public call offices and improving customer
services (billing, claims, information, marketing and demand analysis).
Finance and Accounting
10.   Assistance to the financial units in EPTL will be aimed to help the
enterprise in achieving its financial objectives and targets, by means of a
consistent accrual accounting system, with adequate controls that produce timely
and accurate financial reports to management. In this respect, the consultants
will assist EPTL, in conformity with targets agreed under the Project, in: (i)
developing and finalizing a sound accounting system; (ii) separating EPTL postal
and  telecommunications   accounts;   and   (iii)   analyzing  EPTL's  present
telecommunications tariff structure and levels and making recommendations for
suitable tariff adjustments which would respect EPTL's financial covenants. The
consultants will assist also, on a regular basis, in the following functions:
a)    setting and/or revising financial targets;
b)    improving billing and collection performance;
c)    reviewing accounting policies, practices and systems;
d)    establishing  procedures  for  the  preparation  of  financial  and
management reports;
e)    debt management;
f)    revaluation and control of fixed assets;



- 46 -                             Annex 4.3
g)    budget preparation and c'.ntrol;                               Page 4/4
h)    annual review of tariffs;
i)    accounts receivables/aging analysis;
j)    settlement statements for payments;
k)    monitoring of incoming and outgoing transactions;
1)    review of accounting rates;
m)    stock control, inventory accounting procedures, and store management.
n)    recruitment and training of financial staff.
Transfer of Know-How and Training
11.   As a major task of their assignment, the consultants shall contribute to
the upgrading and development of EPTL's human resources through transfer of know-
how and training of staff in all aspec's of the work undertaken in Lao PDR. This
transfer shall cover but not be limited to planning methods and techniques,
engineering design, technical and economic evaluation of alternative projects,
preparation of technical specifications, procurement documentation and
procedures, acceptar-e tests and commis3ioning of equipment, general project
management, etc. The training plan on these aspects should be designed with the
objective that, on completion of the consultants' assignment, EPTL staff shall
have developed an adequate capability for implementing independently a
significant proportion of future development programs without substantial further
external technical assistance.
12.   The consultants will review the availability of EPTL staff to act as
counterparts, specify the required qualifications for each such staff, assist
EPTL in selecting staff from within the enterprise or through outside
recruitment, and recommend foreign training in specific disciplines (A special
training program is being funded by the Project, as well as training by the
equipment suppliers).
Data Processing Capabiliti-s
13.   The Consultants will assist in introducing suitable data processing systems
for the implementation of a management information system and improvement of the
finance, accounting, operations, maintenance, planning, personnel services, and
other functions. Consideration should be given to the installaticn of :.ntegrated
packages and programs on microcomputers.
Staff Requirements
14.   It is estimated that a total of about 183 expert-months of consultant
services will be required for the above tasks. The following expertise should
be provided during the implementation of the project: Project Leader (49 expert-
months), Switching Engineer (25), Transmission Engineer (19), External Plant
Engineer (34), Planning and Traffic Engineer (19), Financial and Accounting
Expert (37).



- 47 -
Page 1/5
IAO PD
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO
Program for Reducing Accounts Receivable
In-trotuction
1. Entreprise d'Etat des Postes et Telecommunications Lao (EPTL) has agreed
to form a task force to reduce accounts receivable in all jurisdictions under
EPTL's control. The task force would be headed by a Deputy General Manager
who would report directly to the General Manager. The task force would be
authorized to implement changes in EPTL's billing procedures so as to make
bills more accurate and their rendering more timely while recommending
methods  of enforcing collections.    The  task force vill have as  its
objectives: (a) significantly improving the collection of current billings;
(b) making arrangements to collect over time, a significant part of past
arrears; and (c) making arrangements to write down that portion of past
arrears that it considers uncollectible.
Immediate Action Plan
2.    The Task Force would identify measures, along the lines suggested under
the draft Action Plan shown in Attachment A, as the initial steps to be taken
under the program; and targets, defined in Attachment B, as the immediate
quantifiable objectives of this program.
Elements of the Program
3. The main responsibility of the task force will be to implement a
continuing action program to reduce accounts receivable. This task includes,
but is not limited to the following:
(a) Verification that all connected subscribers have accounts and are
being billed;
(b) Segregation of accounts receivable into those outstanding for more
than one year and those outstanding for less;
(c)   For accounts receivable outstanding for more than one year, develop
terms for settling these arrears over time. Arrangements should be



- 48 -
Annex 4.4
Page 2/5
made to write down any pertion of these arrears which are to be
forgiven as part of the settlement;
(d)   For accounts  receivable  outstanding for less  than one year,
determine which of those are not collectable. Arrangements should
be made to write down those accounts; in the event that those
accounts are still able to call, they should be disconnected as
rapidly as possible;
(e)   Modification of billing procedures to simplify the development,
rendering and tracking of bills and monitoring of payment;
(f)   Development of procedures,  such as the use of banks or small
neighborhood EPTL offices, to simplify cash payment of bills;
(g)   Development of procedures to simplify the offset of government
related receivables, including receivables for telecommunications
services rendered to government agencies and government employees,
against remittances to the government (this would involve the
government making adjustments through corresponding reductions of
budget allocations to agencies representing subscribers);
(h)   Monitor closely current billing and collection;
(i)   Develop a policy (and procedures for implementation of that policy)
to  persuade  defaulting  subscribers  to  meet  their  current
obligations, including current bills and agreed remittances against
past arrears;
(j)   Develop a program to use EPTL's senior management to persuade large
government agencies and important commercial enterprises to meet
their current obligations;
(k)   Develop a policy (and procedures for implementation of that policy)
to disconnect defaulting subscribers who could not otherwise be
persuaded to make their payments in a timely manner; and
(1)   Develop a policy (and procedures for implementation of that policy)
of periodic tariff reviews, to be conducted at intervals of not less
than once a year, to assure the financial appropriateness of tariff
levels while also avoiding the need for sudden steep tariff
increases.
Eteorting
4. The task fotce will develop and ensure that the following reports are
produced. these reports would be available to the Association for review and
comment:



- 49 -
Annex h.4
Page 3/5
(a)   every month, a schedule identifying all accounts receivable (numbers
of receivables and the financial amounts represented thereby)
according to time outstanding and subscriber category; and
(b)   every six months, a brief report providing analysis of the current
status of accounts receivables and suggested methods for reducing
their size at1d scope.
Task Force PreDaration
5. The Task Force will prepare for this assignment by requiring the
following:
(a)  Updated subscriber connection/reconnection records;
(b)   Updated information regarding billing and collection policies,
practices, and performance data; and
(c)   meetings with all relevant parties, jointly and severally, involved
in the billing, collection, and financial department, for tha
purpose of arranging needed coordination between units.
IDA Assistance
6. The Association would consider favorably financing modest expenditures for
software systems and/or technical assistance for use in implementing this
program. The financial expert of the ITU consulting team would be able to
provide further guidance.



- 50 -
Annex 4.4
Page 4/5
IAO PDR
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
ENREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES El TELECOMMUICATIONS IAO
Draft Action Plan for Reducing of Receivables from Subscribers
Several areas will be identified by the task force in an effort to
reduce outstandings to acceptable levels.
(a)   Bills  become  due  to payment  within  ..  days  of  service.
Subscribers failing to pay within due date could be served weekly
reminders for a period of three weeks. Subscribers failing to
pay their dues within .. days from service of bill would be
liable for disconnection.
(b)   In case of Government employees, it is proposed that the employer
would adjust the amount of telecommunications bills against the
salary of the employees and pay periodically consolidated amounts
to EPTL.
(c)   In case of Government agencies, Ministries, etc. payment would
be obtained from the Bank against budgeted allocations made
available to them.
(d)   In case of State Enterprises and large industrial consumers, it
is proposed to enter into agreements stipulating the time period
for payments of bills by transfer from their bank accounts.
(e)   The reasons for the delay presently experienced in preparation
and submission of bills would be investigated closely and
appropriate remedial measures be developed.
(f)   An exercise should be undertaken to identify old outstanding
payables which are considered irrecoverable for various reasons
so that the Ministry may be approached for writing off these
outstandings.
(g)   The Telecommunications tariffs would be reviewed more often by
EPTL to avoid steep ad hoc increases leading to increases in
arrears. In order to make it easier for the subscribers to clear
the arrears, EPTL would consider to accept payments in
installment.



Attachment B
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Program for Reducing Overdue Accounts Receivable
(pre-dating 1990)
Recovery (as X of pre-1990 Arrears)
C A T E G 0 R Y             1st Half 1990      2nd Half 1990     Remarks
State Agencies                  50.0X              50.0X         After realization of past
arrears the targeted time
for past outstandings
It                                                           should be no more than
60 days
State Enterprises               70.0X              30.0%
Public and Individuals          70.0X              30.01
State Employees                 70.01              30.01
Diplomatic Corps               100.01               0.0O
Inte-.national Agencies        100.01               0.01
Other (specify)                 50.01              50.01
Provincial Debts                30.01              70.01                  
ii



5?. -                           Annex 5.1
Page 1/2
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TEIECOMNUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOHMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Program and Prolect Components
I.    ONGOING WORKS
(a)   First IDA Project
Major remaining works under this project are: installation of a
digital telephone exchange (1,024 lines) in Vientiane for temporary
demand relief, rehabilitation and expansion of local networks,
construction of buildings for future telephone exchanges, and
procurement of tools, measuring equipment and air conditioning units.
In 1990, EPTL will complete the installation of HF-radio terminals
procured under this project.
(b)   Vientiane-Paksane Microwave Link (French Donation)
Installation of a digital microwave link that will be integrated to
the national backbone provided under the Second Telecommunications
Project.
(c)   Earth Station for Satellite Telecommunications (Australian Donation)
Installation, in Vientiane, of an earth station for improvement of
international telecommunications through 3-6 satellite circuits to
Australia, using Intelsat system.
II.   SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Part A: Telecommunications Facilities
(a)   Switching Facilities and Cable Plant
(i)   Supply, installation,  and commissioning of a digital telephone
exchange in Vientiane, combined for local, national and international
switching functions. The parent exchange, with a total of about
11,300 lines, will support four (4) remote switching units (RSUs)
and two (2) remote subscriber multiplexors (RSMs).
(ii)  Supply,  installation,  and  commissioning  of  digital  telephone
exchanges in Luang Prabang (1,024 lines), Paksane (200 lines),
Savanruakhet (1,024 lines), and Thakhek (512 lines), connected to the
national and international networks. A telephone exchange for 1,024
lines, originally installed under the First IDA Project in Vientiane,
will be reused in Pakse.
(iii) Concomitant supply, installation, and commissioning of local networks
and subscriber connection in the six cities.



- 53 -                             Annex 5.1
Page 2/2
(b) Long Distance Transmission Network
Supply, installation and commissioning of a digital microwave route (2 GHz,
34 Mb/s) from Luang Prabang to Pakse, interconnecting the six cities above
mentioned for national and international traffic.   The system will be
capable of providing drop & insert radio channels at each of these six
points for future interconnections with towns and communities located in
the northern highlands and along the tributaries of the Mekong River.
Multiplex equipment will initially provide 30 telephone circuits between
each two of these nodes.
(c)   Ancillary Equipment. Buildings and Civil Works
The Project includes ancillary equipment for the above facilities and the
general administration of the network: operator positions (9) for manual
national and international traffic, power plant, subscriber telephones
(14,000), public telephones and booths (50), Private Branch Exchanges (360
lines), air compressors, water pumps, vehicles, office equipment and
microcomputers. Buildings for telephone exchanges are partially covered
under the First IDA Project. A cable storage building will be constructed
in Vientiane. Access roads will be opened to certain microwave repeater
stations.
(d)   SuDervision of Maintenance and Operations
Both for the switching facilities and the transmission network, the
suppliers would supervise maintenance and operations for one year after
eommissioning of the equipment.
Part B: Technical Assistance
A total of about 180 staff-weeks for:
(i)   Management of the total scope of the work related to EPTL's invest-
ment program.
(ii) Institutional development, including strengthening of EPTL' s
capabilities of management, corporate planning, finance and
accounting, engineering, operations and maintenance.
Part C: Trainina
In addition to training provided by the equipment suppliers (Switching: about
20 staff-months overseas and 5 s-m on site; transmission: 10 s-m overseas and
5 s-m on site), the Project includes about 6 s-m of assistance in Lao PDR by an
expert on training programs, as well as foreign training for EPTL's staff (total
of 300 s-m).
III. FUTURE WORKS
During the implementation period of the Second Project, the preparation of a
further development project will be initiated, based on the fundamental plans
established under the Second Project and surveys undertaken by EPTL on traffic
demand and new installations needed.



Anne. 5.2
LAD POR
BETREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES Er TEIMICATIONS LAO (EVL)
SECOND TELEC11 CATTIONS PROJECT
Proram and Project Costes (LS '000)
---1990-------  --19 l1-----                   ---1992-----    -----1993 ---- -----19                     --  -------- 1995--------  ---Totl Program-
Components                 Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total
A UONIPG WORK(S
1First DA Project             178 2.296 2,474       222   201   423         0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0     400 2.497 2,897
2 Other Projects*             213   859 1,074         0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0     215   859 1.074
Totel Ongoing Works:   39S 3,155 3,548       222   201   423         0     0      0        0     0      0        0     0      0        0     0      0      615 3.356 3,971
9 SOND IDA PROJECT
I Telephone Exchanges           0 1,972 1,972         0 3,943 3,943         0 2.957 2,957         0   986   g88         0      0      0       0      0      D          9.8S'  9.858
2 Tranmiesion Systems           0  1,745  1,745     930 4.362  5,292        0 1,745  1,745        0   872   872         0      0      0       0      0      0      930 8,724  9.654
3 PC4 Links                     0      0      0       0    66    e6         0   231   231         0    33    33         0      0      0       0      0      0            33a   330
4Cable and Wire                 0   815   815         0 2,038 2.038         0 1,22=  1.223        0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0          4,07!  .075
S Cable Plant Ac-ssories        0   225   225         0   562   S62         0   33    33'         0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0          1.124 '.24
6Cable Plant Cortruction       74   148    m        148   297   445        74   148   222        37    74   111        37    74   111         0      0      0     369   742 1,111    l
7 Subcriber Connections         0      0      0       0o   54   134        64    43   107        51    34    84        34    23    57         0      0      0     230   1I 3 383
8 Subwcriber Teer4nals          0      0      0       0   6S5   6SS         0   437   437         0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0          1,091  1,091   >.
9Power Plant for Tf. Ech.       0   119   119         0   475   473         0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0            594   594
10 Buildings                   133   127   260       183   127   260         0      0     0        0      0     0        0      0     0        0      0      0     266   254   520
11 l4iscollan o                  0    63    63         0   252   252         0      0     0        0      0     0        0      0      0       0      0      0            315   315
12 Tech. Assiet. A ProJ. Mat.    S2   470   522       65   587   658        6S   587   6SS        52   470  5M2         26   2SS   261         0      0      0     261 2,350 2,611
13 TraIning                     80   169   199        50   282   882        20   118   183         0      0     0        0      0     0        0      0      0     100   564   664
Total Bas Cost:   289 5,8153 6.142    1.406 13,700 15,107      228 7,821 8,045       140 2,469  2,609       98   332   430         0      0     0   2.156 30.176 32,132
14 Physical Contingencies       29   293   322       141   s88    826       22   391   413        14   128   137        10    17    26         0      0      0     216 1,509  1.724
1S Price Contingencies          23   442   465       184 1.714  1.899       41 1,383 1,424        34   570   604        29    96   225         0      0      0     312 4,205 4,517
Total Project Cost:   341 6.588 6,929    1.731 16,100 17,8S1      287 9,595 9,888       188 3,162 3,350       137   444   581         0     0      0   2,683 35,890 38.573
C RITI,E WORKS                                                                                                                               380   350   730       380   350   730
Total Investent Program:   734 9,743 10,477    1,9SS 16,301 18,254     287 9.595 9,883        188 3,162 3,350       137   444   S81       880   3S0   730   3,678 39,596 43,274
Contingencis: Physical: 5S on foreign costs, 0l on local costs. Price: 7.2S in 1990, 4.43 thereafter.
Source: EPTL9ankstaff
Septeber, 1989



Annex 6.3
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOI6 TELECOMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Detailed Financing Plan
(USS Million)
---Tot'd Cost (o)-   ---IDA Credit (b)-  --UNDP Gant---     --Japan Grant--  --EPTL Funds-
Components                    Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
1 Telephone Exchanges             0.0  11.7  11.7                                                0.0  11.7  11.7
2 TransmIssion Systems            0.3   8.1   8.4   0.0   8.1   8.1                                                  0.2   0.0   0.3
8 Towers and Civil Works          0.9   2.1   2.9   0.2    2.1   2.3                                                 0.6   0.0    0.6
4 TDM Tolex Torminals             0.0   0.2   0.2   0.0   0.2   0.2
S PCM Links                       0.0   0.4   0,4   0.0   0.4   0.4
6 Cable and Wire                  0.0    4.8   4.8   0.0   4.8   4.8
7 Cable Plant Accessories         0.0    1.3   1.8   0.0   1.3   1.3
8 Cable Plant Construction        0.5    0.9   1.3   0.6   0.9   1. 8I
9 Subscribor Connections          0.3   0.2   0.6   0.0   0.2   0.2                                                  0.3   0.0    0.3 8     n
10 Telephones                      0.0    1.1   1.1   0.0   1.1   1.1                                                                       un
11 PBXs                            0.0   0.2   0.2   0.0   0.2   0.2
12 Power Plnnt for Tf. Exch.       0.0   0.7   0.7   0.0   0.?   0.7
18 Buildings for Tf. Exch.         0.8    0.3   0.8   0.3   0.3   0.6
14 Vehicles & Constr. Plant        0.0    0.3   0.3   0.0   0.3   0.3
15 Office Equip. and Computers     0.0   0.1   0.1                           0.0   0.1   0.1
16 Tochnicat Assistance            0.8   2.8   3.1   0.3   2.3   2.6   0.0   0.6   0.5
17 Training ia Lao PDR             0.0   0.2   0.2   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.1   0.1
18 Foreign Training                0.1   0.6   0.6   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.4   0.6
Total Project Cost:    2.7  35.9  58.6   1.4  23.1  24.5   0.1   1.1   1.2   0.0  11.7  11.7   1.2   0.0    1.2
19 Interest During Construction:   2.2   0.6   2.8        0      0    0.0     0      0   0.0       0      0   0.0   2.2   0.6    2.8
Total Financing Required:
(a) Including: Physical Contingencies: 51 on Foreign Costs and 10% on Local Cost.
Price Contingencies on both Foreign and Local Costa: 7.2X in 1990, 4.41 thereafter.
(b) The SR rate applicable to negotiations Is S M 2 a US2 1.28388
Source: EPTL/Bank Staff                                                                                                               ii
January 1980F 



Annex 6.4
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTFS ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Project Timetable
1989        1990             1991             1992             1993            1994
Major Works                  (a) JAS OND JFkI AMJ JAS OND JFM ALJ JAS OND JFM AMJ JAS OND JFM AUJ JAS OND JFA  JJASOND
A ONGOING WORKS
First ThA Project                      =    =:==:=== =
A  Link Vi.ntlane-Paksane         c==
Earth Station                     =  e   ==                                    .
Rdedo lont of Existing S                                              :      =-=-            =
B SECOND IDA PROJECT
1 Telephone Exchanges           P            =   =
Ul  :: =:=  :=:=:= =e :=:=                                         :
I   :                             s:==:= e :=:=:c       
S   .        .     .. :....                     . .. m.. :::     :=:=-.=eG
2 Tranmission Systems           P         = =e:=                                           :          :
e  = :    : :
3 Cable Plant Construction      P      :    =i   *   *          i   .   .        .                 i  *
U1    :        :  *:=:= =:    :   :             :      :=:                   
C   :   = :5  = =:=:=:=   -:                                     := :  =
4 Subscriber Connections        P           =:=:=:=  =i=  *   i                                                (c)     i
6 Buildings                     P  =i=   =  i   i
C     .      =.~=-==  =.= .=. . .                                . * .            . * .
6 Mlscellaneous                 P          ==?==             =      i                    i            i
7 Technical Assistnce           P       ==i=   i   i            i   i   i
S  .: .===:__=,== =.=.=-   :::===  -.,.
8 Training                      P    =        );= ) =  i   i
S       ~~~(d)   )  i         = = =           =; ;            i i i
C IDA PROCESSING                       ;          =:                                   :
(a)  C: Construction - I: Installation - M: Manufacturina, delivery
P: Procurement  - S: Supervision of maintenance, other services                                                                        I
b'  HF-radio links and some minor telephone exchange. .
)  A certain amount of subscriber connections in provincial towns will be completed by EPTL staff.
('Credit Approval (March8 1990)                                                                                                          U'
e   Expects           ffrdt  ffctiveness Date (June, 1990)                                                                                 >
Source: EPTL/Bankstaff
Septeber, 1989



Annex .56
Page 1/3
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOUUMNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMUWIICATIONS PROJECT
Goods and Services to be Procured
Project Items                                      Unit Quantity  Bid No. ICD  LCB  LIB  Other Tied
1.0 TELEPHONE SWITCHINGK
1.1 Exchangs:                                                              001                           5
a) Vientiane: Combined for local,
national, and international
switching functions:
Parent exchange                                 Line   11,300
Remote Switching Unite (4)                      Line  (6,2'8)
Remote Subser. Multiplexors (2)                Line      (60)
b) Luang Prabang                                   Line    1,024
c) Pskaene                                         Line      200
d) Pekse (from Vientiane, adapted)                 Line    1,024
e) Ssvannakhet                                     Line    1,024
f) Thakhek                                         Line      612
g) Manual operator positions                                   9
1.2 Supervision of maintenance                 Staff-month        24      001                            s
1.3 Overseas training (6 staff-3 months)       Staff-onth         18      001                            e
1.4 Onsito training by supplier                Staff-month         3      001                            a
2.0 TRANSMISSION
2.1 Digital radio and multiplex Equip.                 Link        6    002-A   a
2.2 Civil works and towers                                              002-8   *
2.3 Power equipment (solar sysbems)                                     002-A   *
2.4 Test instruments                                    Lot        1    002-A   a
2.5 Supervision of maintenance                 Staff-month        12    002-A   *
2.6 Overseas training (3 staff-8 months)       Staff-month         9    002-A   *
2.7 Onsite training by supplier                Staff-month         a    002-A   *
2.8 TDM telex terminals                                Line       98       003             a
3.0 OUTSIDE PLANT
(Vientiane, Luang Probang, Pakeane,
Pokae, Savannakhet, Thakhek)
3.1 PCM links for Vientiane                      Repeaters        86      004   *
3.2 Cablo/wire                                           km 146/3200    006-A   *
3.3 Cablo plant accessories                                             006-B   a
3.4 Cable plant constructior                                            006-C   *
3.S Subscriber connections                      Subscriber   10,000    006-D   a



Annex 6.6
Page 2/3
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Goods and Services to be Procured
Project Items        -                           Unit Quantity  Bid No. ICB  LCB  LIB  Other Tied
4.0 SUBSCRIBER TERMINALS
4.1 Subscriber telephones                       Telephone   14,000       006   *
4.2 Public telephones and booths           Teleph.+ booth        s0      008   *
4.3 PBXe (3)                                    Ext. Line       880      007   a
6.0 POWER PLANT
6.1 Power plant for T-leph. Exch.                  System         S      008   *
6.0 BUILDINGS
6.1 For Teleph. exchanges (partially             Building         3      009        a
covered under First LDA Project)
6.2 For cable storage                            Building         1      010                                                CD
7.0 MISCELLANEOUS
7.1 Air compressors                                              2      011 O
7.2 Water pumps                                                  2       Ol1             *
7.3 Vehicle.                                                    10      011 O
7.4 Office equipment and cowputers                                      012                    S
8.0 PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND TA
8.1 Tech. Assist. A Proj. Mgt.                Staff-month      188       013                   a
9.0 TRAINING
9.1 Foreign experts                           Staff-month        6       014                   a
9.2 Materials and equipment                           Lot         1      014                   a
9.3 Additional foreign training               Staff-month      300      016
Io m
n0
_ 
vi.



- 59 -
Annex 5.6
Page 8/8
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Goods and Services to be Procured: Bid Packages        (US$ Million)
Bid No.                                   ICa      LCB      LIS    Other      TIed    Total
001      Telephone Exchanges                                                11.724   11.724
002-A    Transmission Systems           8.442                                         8.442
002-B    Tower* and Civil Works for    2.918                                          2.913
Transmission Systems
003      TDM Telex Terminals                              0.178                       0.178
004      PCU Links                      0.392                                         0.892
005-A    Cable and Wire                 4.847                                         4.847
006-B    Cable Plant Accessories        1.837                                         1.337
006-C    Cable Plant Construction       1.342                                         1.342
005-D    Subscriber Connections        0.469                                          0.489
006      Telephones                     1.113                                         1.113
007      PBXa                           0.186                                         0.186
008      Power Plant for Tf. Exch.      0.706                                         0.706
009      Buildings for Tf. Exchanges             0.608                                0.608
010      Cable Storage Building                  0.025                                0.026
011      Vehicles and Constr. Plant                       0.810                       0.10
012      Office Equip. and Computers                               0.086              0.066
018      Tech. Assist. & Proj. Mgt.                                3.120              3.120
014      Training In Loo PDR                                       0.220              0.220
01S      Foreign Training                                          0.676              0.676
21.747    0.633    0.488    3.980   11.724  38.673
Source: EPTL/Bankstaff
October, 1989



- 60 -
Annex 5.6
Page 1/1
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Cumulative            Standard
IDA FY and              Disbursement        ---------               Disbursement
Semester Ending          in Semester        (Z) Through Semester   Profile (*)
1991
December 31, 1990                 0.5         2               0.5               2
June 30, 1991                     0.5         4               1.0               4
1992
December 31, 1991                 1.2         9              2.2                9
June 30, 1992                     1.5        15              3.7               15
1993
December 31, 1992                 1.7        22               5.4              22
June 30, 1993                     2.5        32               7.8              32
1994
December 31, 1993                 2.2        41             10.0               41
June 30, 1994                     2.7        52             12.7               52
1995
December 31, 1994                 1.5        58             14.2               58
June 30, 1995                     2.2        67             16.4               67
1996
December 31, 1995                 2.2        76             18.6               76
June 30, 1996                     2.4        86             21.1               86
1997
December 31, 1996                 2.7        97             23.8               97
June 30, 1997                     0.7       100             24.5              100
(*) Standard disbursement profile (2) for telecommunications projects
in Asia, as of April 1988.



- 61 -
Annex 6.7
Page 1/2
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D 'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Performance Indlcators
Historic Performance: Period 1995-88 (Year ending December 81)
1986             1988             1987         1988
Indicators               Comparator  Appraisal       Actual
1.  Exchange capacity (lines)               8,169       8,609        8,280    8,610        8,440
Autom*tic                          6,876        6,026        6,974    8,124       6,314
Manual                             2,284        2,484        2,080    2,886       2,126
2. Telephone lines in service               5,872       6,447        6,852    6,231        8,468
Automatic                          4,781        6,161        4,937    5,265       6,699
Manual                             1,141        1,296          915      968         889
8. Number of Public Call Offices               18          20           20        8 (a)        8
4.  Telex capacity (b)                        190         190          190      190          190
S.  Telex subscribers                          40          43           89       48           62
6.  Staff                                   1,600       1,500        1,440    1,811        1,846
Telecommunications                   700 (c)      700 (c)      772      760         798
Posts                                800 (c)      800 (c)      488      661         663
Common (Admn.)                                                 280
7. Telecommunications staff/
1,000 lines in servico (d)               119          109          132      122          128
S. Average number of faults/                    4           4            6        a         n.e.
1OO lines in service/year
9. Duration of faults
Less than 24 hours (U)                 5            6            8     16.6        66.0
Moro than 24 hours (%)                95           96           92     88.6        45.0
10. Net internal cash generation/
lnvostment (%)  (e)                                   ---    65.6                      48.6
Telecommunications                                                     11.1        24.6
Posts                                                                  54.5        24.0
1. Operating revenue/line ('000 kip)         ---         --          29.5    31.2          76.0
12. Operating cost/line ('000 kip)            ---         ---         27.4    29.3          67.0
18. Drawdown of credit (X total credit)       ---    (USS 50,000)        0        0           12
14. Bi11ing (dispatch in days after            26          20           15       1s           1s
billing date)
16. Ac .o:nts receivable (days of
rev,.ues)
Government                           120           90          16S      121          144
Private                               so           60          180       6o          65
(a)  Due to non availability of spares and approplate coins, other public call offices
have been withdrawr from service.
(b)  The oxchange Is equiped for 60 linen only.
(c) As estimated, since detailed breakup was not then available.
(d)  80% of administration staff presumed working for telecommunications branch
(e) Data generated starting with the results of 1987. Cash generation covenant effectiv'
since 1988.
n.a. Not available



- 62 -
Annex 6.7
Page 2/2
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Performance Indicators
Targets for 199S-91 (Year ending December 81)
Targets----------
Performance Indicators                           1989     1990     1991
Physical Implementation
-----------------------------------------
TelepFone Exchange Capacity (lines)             8,500    9,600    9,500
Automatic                                  6,3800    7,800    7,800
Manual                                     2,200    2,200    2,200
Telephone Lines In Servics                       6900     8200     8500
Automatic                                   6600     6900     7100
Manual                                     1,800    1,800    1,400
Number of Public Call Offices                       8       10       1s
Telex Capacity (lines)                             6o       6o       6o
Telex subscribers                                  64       67       60
Quality of Service
-----------------------------------------
Avg. No. of Teleph. Faults/100 Lines/Yr            10        7        b
Days to Clear Faults:
-0% of Faults                                 n.s.        8        5
90% of Faults                                 n.a.       10        7
Call Completion Rates (5):
Local Tf. Calls                               n.a.       40       s0
Interurban Tf. Calls                          n.a.       40       5O
International Tf. Calls                       n.s.       30       40
Productivity
Telecom. Staff per 1,000 Teloph. Lines            116       9e       94
In Service
Financial
Telephone Revenue per Line (US$)                  150      190      193
Telex Revenue per Connection (US$)               5000     8500     66o0
Cash Operating Cost per Line (USS)                 72       80       78
Net Internal Cash as X of Constr. Program          11       12        9
Accounts Receivable (Equivalent Days)
Government                                   100       90       9G
Private                                       s0       45       46
Operating Ratio (%). No more than:               0.52     0.44     0.46
Current Ratio.  No less than:                     1.5      1.6      1.5
Debt to Equity Ratio (maximum)                  40/60    50/60    61/49
Debt Service Coverage (minimum)                   2.6      2.6      2.6
Return on Assets (X) (minimum)                    6.0      5.0        3
Drawdown of Credits (% of Total Credit)
First IDA Project                           62.2    91.4   100.0
Second IDA Project                           ---      2.0      9.0
Source: EPTL/Bankstaff
October, 1989



- 63 -
Annex 5.8
Page 1/2
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.    Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
The staff input indicated in the table attached is in addition to regular
supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions,
correspondence, etc. (estimated for this project to require four staff-weeks
during the first two project years and three staff-weeks per year thereafter).
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)   Quarterly Progress Reports are to be submitted as follows:
i.    in the form that will be discussed and agreed during the first
Supervision Mission;
ii.   one (1) month after completion of the quarter;
iii. by EPTL and its consultants, which will coordinate report
preparation by the various project agencies.
(b)   EPTL will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank
supervision missions,  and for providing information required by
missions.
3.    Coordination with Cof'inanciers and ITU
IDA will take the lead role in the supervision of the Project. EPTL, ai.ded by
its consultants, will assure coordination of Project monitoring and supervision
on behalf of the cofinanciers and ITU.



- 64 -
Supervision Plan                                                        Avnex 5.8
Page 2/2
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approximate
Dates                                         Expected Skill      Staff Input
(month/year)            Activity                  Requirements    (staff-weeks)
3-5/90      Supervision Mission            Financial Analysis              5.0
Review of technical speci-    Telecom. Engineering
fications, bid documents
for telephone exchanges and
transmission network, and
detailed network plans.
6-10/90     Review of bid evaluation       Telecom. Engineering            3.0
reports and contracts
7-9/90      Supervision Mission            Financial Analysis              5.0
(to review start-up, orga-    Telecom. Engineering
nizational plan, detailed
training program, design of
civil works and cable plant,
and plans for new accounting
system; to agree revised
performance indicators,
1991-92)
11-12/90    Supervision Mission            Financial Analysis              5.0
(to review progress in         Telecom. Engineering
institutional strength-
ening, training, construc-
tion of civil works and
cable plant, and project
for ancillary equipment)
1991-96     Two Supervision Missions       Financial Analysis              8.0/Yr.
per year.                      Telecom. Engineering
To review progress in
project implementation,
training, and operations
and maintenance activi-
ties. Check of SOE
documentation. Last
missions will include
preparation of PCR.



Annex 6.1
- 65 -                                               Page 1/3
LAO PDI
Snterprise D'Btet Des Poste 8t Telecommunications LAO IBPSbl
Second Telecoosunications Project
Historical Ineome Statement In Dollars
Telecommunications I Posts
1985                            1986                             1907                               19Rh
.._. .                           .............. ................  ..............................   ............................. . ................................... .........................
Oocbange Rate: USII:                            340                             410                              395                               420
Local  Foreign    Total         Local  Foreign   Total           Local  Foreign       total      Locai   Foretgn    rotai
(000 ussi1000 USt05000 US$34000 US01(000 US$11000 USS11000 US$11000 US$11000 IJSOSIOuV Usti f(00 ['SSiiooIi USIO
RaEvingDs                        -------------------------------- ................                 ........................   .........................
Telecom. Revenues                  115        438       553        288        577        865        317        677        994         524        701     1.231
Add: Quote Part Received               0        319        319          0        339       339           0       408        408           0        371        377
Less: Quote Part Paid                  0        225        225          0       298        298          0        368        368           0        345        145
......................................................................................................................................
Net Telecom Rev                    11        532       647        288        618        906        317        117     1,034          524        739     1.263
Postal Service Rev                 114         95       209        220        114        395        259        158        417         347       266        613
Add: Quote Part Received               0         65         65          0         54         54          0       220        220           0        275        275
bess: Quote Part Paid                  0         44         44         15         11        26          l5        64         79          27        275        301
Net Postal Rev                     114        116       230        205        a1t        422        246        314        558         321       2l6        587
TOTAL REVENiJuS                      229        648        877        493        835     1.328        561      1,031      1,591         845      1,005      1.lS0
OURRATIR    IPBESES
laterials                         17        23         41         27         85        113         44         50        94          So         39         91
Repair I Nainteaance               0         0          0          6          0          6          4          0          4           2         0          2
Electricity                       14          0        14         44          0         44         46          0        46          43          0         43
Carburant                          5          0          5        25          0         25         28          0        2d          34                    t4
Transport                         11         0         11         25         23         49         28        25         52           16        WI          ffi
Salary                           22          0         22        117          0        117        15        27        17?          oS                   2h
Labour Insurance                 17          0         If         30          0         38         55         0         ;i          ?a                    44
Subtotal                     87        23        110        283        108        391        355        118       t6:         52'         49
NET OPERATING PROFIT                 142        625        767        210        727       937        20?        923      i  I0)        3, ^               ,.4
Depreciation                      18       272        290         21        248       2C9          28       318        341          44        354        .0
Interest                          0          0          0          0          0          0          0        24         24           D         20         o8
Adlinistration                   24          0         24         67          3         69         87        24        110          92          4         J5
18  D Expenses                     0          0         0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          u  
Miscellaneous                      0          0         0         26          0         26          3          0          3           1         O1 
Subtotal                     41       272        314        113        251        364        118       366        484         127        385        512
.... ... .... ...... .............. ........................ ..... ...... .. ... ... .. .... ............ .................................
PROFIT BSFORS  TAIES                 101        352        453         97       476        573         89        557        646         198        521        719
Tax                              11         27         38         25         38         63        29         42         71          44         49         92
........................................... ................................................................................... ..........................................
NEt PROPlF LOSsi                     89        326        415         72        438       510         600       515        575         154        473        621
Source: EPTL: August 1989



- 66 -                                                            Annex 6.1
Page 2/3
LAO POR
Bnterprise D'Otat Des Paste Bt Teleconunication LAO IRPTLI
Second Telecomsunications Project
BPTL Historical Balaace Sheet (in 000 OollarmI
1985         1986          1987         1988
..... ....... ,w.... ...... .........................
Exchange Rate IUS$z                      340           410          395           420
... .. ... .... ...... ........... . .............. .. . ......... ............... .... .............
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
.............. ......................................................................................... .
Plant in Service                       917         2,165        2,24?         2,630
Less: Accus. Depreciation               44           967        1,0I 4        1.118
Net Plant in Service                   874         1,198        1.184         1,513
Work in ProcesF
Furniture & Fixtures                      I            1             2            1
... ... .............. ............................. ............. ........................ .......
Total Fixed Assets                     875         1.198        1.156         1.514
Current Ass&ts
, . ...................... ... .... ... .. ....... ........... ....... ............. ... ............ _*
Cash & equivalents                        1            2             0            2
Notes Receivable                        60           195          331         1,291
Accounts Receivable                     76           130           140          377
Al for Noney Orders                      0            0             3            3
Spare Parts                               6           22            16           18
Fuels Inventory                           1            2             2            4
....... ............. ....... .... ...... .. ........... ... ...................... ...............
Total Current Assets                   145           350          493         1.94
...... ....................... ........... .. ...... ................ .. .... ........ ...
TOTAL ASSETS                            1.019        1.549         1,648        3.208
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Liabilities
Long Ters Debt                             0            0             0          504
Less: Current Portion                      0            0             0            0
.. ... .... .... ................. ..... ......... .. ........... ..... ......... .... ....... ........ ...
Net Long Term debt                        0            0             0          504
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                       125           259          324           515
Trust Liabilities                        4             9            10           17
Wages Payable                             0            0             0            0
Notes Payable to Govt.                    0            1             3            0
~~~~...... ......... .. ................ ... .. ....... .................... .......
Tot. Current Liab.                     129           269          331           532
Total Liabilities
EQUITY
EPTL Capital                            11            12            28        1,365
Material Fund                             0            0             1            0
LAO Govt Contr.                        874         1,236        I.l95           541
Major Repairs Res.                        5            3            29          176
Pension Reserves                         0            28            59           91
.. ..... ..... ...... .... .... ....... ........... .. . .... .... ...........
Total equity Acc.                         890        1.280         1.312        2.173
.... ...... . .. ... ..... .... ...... ... .... ..  .............  ....
TOT. LIADS. & EQUITY                    1.019        1.549         1,648        3.208
Note: Coapiled frosm PTL Raw Dat&
Source: PTL: August 1989



-  67  -                                 Annex  6.1
Page 3/3
wnterprise D'Stat Des Paste Bt Telecomuunication LAO MUPTL)
Second Telocomnuicationu Project
EPTL Uistotical Baluaet 8beet (in 000 Dollhru)
Au of December 3t, 1988
Exchange Rate: 81:1380
ASSBTS                                                                       LIABILITIES I BQUITY
FI1ED ASSETS                                                                 LIADILITIES
Lao Govt Contribution                     1,111                              Long Toem  Debt (IDA I)                      557
Less: Acc. Depreciation                      514                             Les: Current Pottioo                         -0-
............                                                                ................. .....
Net Govt fixed Assets                                       598              Net Long Ters Debt                             557
BPTL Contribution                          1,330                           CURENT LIABILITIUS
Less: Acc. Depreciation                      7122                            Accounts Payable                             569
-------- . ---Trust Liabilities                                                       19
Net BPTL Fixed Assets                                       608                Motes Payable to Govt.                         0
IDA I Contribution                           466                           Total Current Liabilities                      588
Lees: Acc. Depreciation                      -0-
get IDA I Fixed Assets                                      466              TOTAL LIABILITIES                            1,144
Net Plant in Service                                      1,672
furniture A Fixtureu                                          a
-------^---- XQUITY
Total Fixed Assets                                        1,673
BPTL Capital                              1.11?
CURURET ASSME                                                                  LAO Govt. Capital                            591
Vajor Repair Reserve Fund                    194
Cash & Equivalents $                                                         EPTL Reserve Fund                            281
Bank Certificates                                      1,427                 sovt. Construction Fund                      -0-
Accounts Receivable                                      416                 EPTL Construction Fund                       112
A/l for Honey Orders                                        4                Social Security FPind                        1o0
Spare Parts                                                19                                                    ............
fuels Inventories                                           5              Total Equity                                2.402
............
Total Current Assets                                      1,173
TOTAL ASSETS                                              3,546              TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                   3,546
Note: Conpiled from BPTL Ra Data
Source: EPTL; August 1989



- 68 -
Annex 6.2
LAO PDI
Enterprise D'Ptat Des Poste 6t Telecoamonications LAO 18PTLI
Second Telecommunications Project
Histotical tncose Statement In Dollats
Teleconunications Opetations
1985                           1986                            198?                               1988
........................   ............................... .......... ............... ......... ................ ...
xchauge Rte: U8$1:                             340                             410                            395                             4I0
Local  Foreign   Total         Local  Foreign    Total         Local  foreigo    total         Local   Foreign    total
1000 US0 (1000  8891(008 USs)(000 U18(11) 000  01 0 )000 us8I(000 0(811(11000 0s8)(0O  US111o00 US$) 1000 US$)(000 d851
teieco. Revenues                 115       438        553       288        577        865       317        617        994        524        707     1.231
Add: Quote Part Rbc                   0       319       319          0        339       339          0       408        408           0       377        377
Less: Quote Part Paid                 0        t25       325          0        298       298          0        368       368           0        345       345
. ................. .. ... .................. ............................. ... .. ... .. ........................................
met Teleco. Rev.                 115       532        647        288       618        906       317        717     1.034         5Z         739      1.263
Less: Cash Op. Costs:
Eaterials                        14        23         38         19        85        105        29         49         18         32         39         71
bpair a Ueint.                    0         0          0          5         0          S          2         0          2           1         0          1
Plectricitp                      13         0         13        44          0         44        46          0        46          43          0         43
Carburant                         4         0          4         18         0         18         18         0         18         20          0         20
Tronsport                         a         0          2          9        13        21          9         16         25           7        45         53
8alaty                           15         0         15       714          0         74        96         18       114         159          0        159
Labour Insurance                 13         0         13        25          0         25        35          4         39         49          0         49
Subtotal                    61        23         85        194        98        292       236         88        323        313         84        397
8et Operating Profit                 54        509       563         94        520       614         81       629        710         al2       655        066
Less:
Depteciation                     17       267        285         13       164        118        18        198       216          21        305       326
Interest                          0         0          0         0          0          0         0         ao        20           0         20        t0
Administration                   15         0         16        41                    1 42     5          19         74         55          2         57
RA D Rpeoses                      0         0          0         0          0          I         0          0          0          0          0          0
Niscellaneoue                     0         0          0          0         0          0          a         0          2           0         0          O
~~........ .......... ..... ...... .... .......... ...............................................
Subtotal                    32       ?67        299         54       166        219         76       236        312          76       328        403
Profit Before Tlaes                  23        241       264         40        355       394          Si       393       398         136       327        463
.... ... .. ... .... .. ........... .................................. ..... ...... .... .... ...... ........ ........................
Ta                               56        23         18         62        29         91        65         34         99         29         35         64
. ... ... ............... ...................... .. ............... ...... ...... .................................
let Profit/1Loss)                   1331       219        186       3221       326       303        1601       359       299         107       292        3
Source: 8PSL: August 1989



at               i   i                 Si      i                     i       i   a C'
S  55i0   0.   i tOtfl                                 ii. * **
* -.  flaW                    '4                        C   *CF.
* aS  i..n               n-Si4iS Sn 4*i*   * -        S Sn a COWS
* a   .-..S..             Ow  0 wtt                     * 04                          5
.scwh-be                  0.40 0...  iC    i 0
-  SO i      0.
* =   -.   0              54          -.      i         1   iO        0                C
* 000                     5                             *i  -                          at
.     :                         4                            a - aWn
*                         4*                            iS,  ..   .4                  ii
*                     icc-.
*                                                       a -  a        -       *04,
* .,i  -..si C,. icc  ccc,i   Ciac  a co-cocco               ,        . a.  ata   a         . Sw      ci
*        a    a                   a    i                     S        S    a                .-           a
-         - a   a                 c-c a   a                     i         , -  S               , OW        a               0
a.    -. isa s cccc-.imo,a.-.s-cc.--c   i                                 a Ca, cc  a    is.-    i                   0  Cii
*        *    a                   ,    .                     a        *    ,                a   c        .        Cl     S
-  S      o* Ca.            c   ci - a          -              .        . s-h   CF.           iota    - ,         Sw    fin
i        i    S                   i    i                     i        S    i                i  -         S      CaS    S    c
*   5                   5   i                      S         i   i                 is          i      444    05w
*        S   i                    *   4                      5        i   i                 is-..        *            wa-iC
*        a   i                    i   i                      S        C   i                 iCC          i      *c    -.              0'
C-i-          a      i-at   a -.e-n
Cci    a                   S         55  i         Cc      iCC          S     F.      #440
Ca.. cc   -..iaicccihioc.iioicca  C.                                      icc. 04*a             S ata       a      SC'    a-i-i-S
S   S                   a   i                      i         a   i                  -                   -   On
i        i   i                    a   i                      i        C   i                   C                   0   55
a        S    i                   i    i                     i        i    S                iS           i        Ci   -           S
-        .   .                    .   a                      S        i   i                 i SC'        i             -nO
CcSCa   Siam            .  cc  cab icc. i-c.i.a-cc       cc   5           a  a..-.    I..      icR         i             Cci.
*                            .                 =  .          ,                      -                   .
a   5                   5   i                  -   S         i   i                 is-         i        -   alt-
S   i                     i         i   a                 ice          S -      0      4
,   i                   i   i                      S         *   i                   CS        i.e      ci     S
Ca.       c-iaua              5  isi c-ti                       i        i-icc.    a            iota    ici                 44-
SiC   SiC is ciaSi-.  a Sc. c.iosocc.  S                                 iS i.C.C  5    *00  CPu                            C
*        i    a                   S    i                     a        a    a                i   -
S        i    i                   S    i                     i        C    i                 i  5..g     i               Sn
a        i    i                   i    i                     i        i    i                 i  CO       i
cci      ccicc S                  S  Scci                       a         i ta S   Ca   S       iC5
cc, c.C  Si  -.C i      a..  4a   CaiiiStc C.cc           a-   .          a ta. -...            . ci-
CaS-405iCa  i                iSa CCC  0              5
i                                             S         i    4                  C
*                                             i         i    i        pa      a   Ot      S
OCitF.i       i-S                 CCSCa         c    i          icC, Ca       a       isa
a                                             4         i    i                i
Os--cc                  Cossa-ac  i                      :: :   : -  
C.
iSi  iF.i.ii  5       .5w    Ci                                S..
*                                             i         a    i                i  -
*                                             i         i    i                i  -
*                           Ca                i         ii,, i i-a-Ca   S     iCC
cc   C i iS i ccsci-t                  iCipiSi.iC,ccs    i          i -.ii CaCa   Cc      S 0
i                                             i         i    a



- 70 -
Annox 3.4
Page 1/2
LAO POR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECONC TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Tolecommunications Tariffs (*)                (KiP)
Uto  From
Services                                                         o/st/ss C7/01/88
A. TELEPHONE  (b)
-Inttallati?n charge for a main                                    16,800   86,000
tl *phone Ino
-Monthiy rontal charge (including                                   1,000    1,500
call chrger at manual oxehanges)
-Local Call chrge at futomatie exchanges                               10       16
-Free local cl Is within monthly rent.l:
Year:                1986      1986     1987     1988      1999
Pr month:              60        60       so       45        8o
Per year:             720       720      720      640       BB0
-Interurban call chor  per B minutes                                  120      180
-Examples of internatTonal call charges,
per mlnuto:                         Bangkok                          100      410
Oanevg                           648    1,497
Hong Kong                        276    1,144
Moscow                           820    1,876
New York                         869    1,900
Stockholm                        5698    2,242
S. TELEX
-ltil  c harge (EPTL provtdes teloprinter)                        16,800   8S,000
-Monthly rEnl charnnge          6c,5g60    7,800
-Examp ls of international call charges
per minute:                         Bangkok                          281      960
Geneva                           846    1,421
Hong Kong                        841    1,406
Moscow                           240    1,030
NeW ywork                        461    1,898
Stockholm                        846    1,421
C. TELEGRAMS (Charge per word)
-InlEnd t  egres, normal transmission                                  10       1S
Inland t legrams, uro nt trans.e9 op                                  20       so
-Examples of internstona  t legram cnarges:
Bangkok                           74      827
Geneva                            98      899
io coK"9               2~~45    188
MOng.on                           24      108
New York                          70      289
Stockholm                        110      462
(a)  For International communications  Government subscribers pay In Kips; all other
subscribers have to pay In US Dollars.  That x;hane  rate used for tariffs
I t: up to Jtno 80,1988, US91.00 = Kip 93; (ii) from July 1, 1988, USSl.0
K p W8u
(b)  Telephone call charges for interurban and international services do not vary
with the hours of the day or the days of the week.
Source: EPTL
July, 1989



- 71 -                                   Ann-x 6.4
Page 2/2
LAO POR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECONUUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOWMUICATIONS PROJECT
Teleco-munications Tariffs
Comparlson of D M tic Teriffe (e)
Inst4ilatlon    Annual Subscr.    One Local Cal!      One L.D. Call
Country                             (a)                (b)               (c)                (d)
Chhile                              677                68              0.076               0.44
China P.R.                            2                 32             0.011               0.24
Colombia                            217                 50             0.007               0.08
Dominican Republic                   64                 29 4.as
Ecuador                              89                  4             0.002               0.06
Egypt                               148                 43             0.072               0.18
EthIopia                             55                 29             0.058               0.62
India                                e1                91              0.04S               0.69
Indonesia                           801                25              0.045               1.35
Jamaica                              24                122             0.057               1.08
Malawi                               27                 27             0.040               0.80
Mauritius                            47                 42             0.051               0.05
Morocco                              47                 88             0.087               0.58
Mozambique                           99                 24             0.080               0.64
Nepal                                91                 65             0.046               0.66
Pakistan                            146                 20             0.040               0.72
Par gusy                            eI1                 64             0.086               0.24
PhillippTnes                        107                104                                 0.27
Rwanda                               27                160             0.183               1.60
Senegal                             220                156             0.195               1.17
Tanzania                             17                 17             0.021               0.26
Tunisia                              87                 26             0.076               0.45
Uganda                               69                 60             0.183               1.70
Zambia                               17                 26             0.059               0.68
Zimbabwe                             85                41              0.080               0.72
AVERAGE RATE:                       182                 54             0.065              0.684
For comparison: Domestic Rates In Lao POR as of August 1989 (Exchange Rate: US31 = Kip 600)
68                80              0.026              0.80
(a)  Taken from publication by SIEMENS (aStudy ondNational Tel-phone Tariffs Worldwide  - A
Detailed Comparisona) for  ow- neme and m   le- ncom  countries.  Status: Jan. 1, 1988
(a)  Installation fees Include acurity deposit  where tpplicable
(b  Subscription retes for a main   -bIon (res dence)  nc ude any allowance for local calls.
(c  Rate for one local call of 8 minutes duration
(d Rate for one Lngn Distance cal of1 3a mnutes duration, direct distance dialling (where
applicable), ditance up to 100 bm



- 72 -
Annex 6.5
Page 1/3
LAO PDR
Enterprise D'Etat Des Postes Et Telecommunications LAO
Second Telecommunicationrs Project
Assumptions for Financial Projections
I. Model Description and Programming Logic
A fully integrated model was developed to project financial activity for
the Project. The model accey ts revenue projections from a separate
forecast module. Other inputs include operating expenses (excluding
interest and depreciation), and assumptions for financing, inflation, and
financial and cash management. Year ending 1988 balance sheet items
were also inputs to the model in order to establish a starting position
for the Enterprise.
The model was programmed under the fundamental premise that the
activity would be managed according to acceptable management
principles as would the typical running of an enterprise. As such, any
deviations derived from selected parameters such as, excesses or
shortfalls in cash would either create additional requirements for equity
financing or for distribution of dividencs. The model therefore does not
accumulate cash. All excess funds derived in any particular projected
year are distributed in that same year regardless of hie results
achieved in   either the prior or subsequent years. For projection
purposes, the LAO Government is E .sumed as the clearing entity for any
excess or shortfall in cash other than those programmed in financing
assumption.
The financing decisions of the model were programmed to have certain
priorities in order to simulate the proper financial management of an
enterprise. While the project financing decisions are independent
variables and inputs, the model, through an iterative process,
recalculates these and derives both the Government's and EPTL's
contribution towards financing the Project. EPTL's contribution is
contingent on its ability to first meet other financial requirements for
maintaining adequate levels of working capital and debt service. These
are I-programmed to have a higher priority in the financial decision
making proceses The projected "Flow of Fund Statement" was designed
to clearly show the priority of the financing decisions.
IL Assumptions for Financial Projections
A. General Projection Parameters
1. Projection Period: 1989 to 2010.
2. Currency: Dollars based on an exchange rate of $1=600 kip.
3. Inflation: Operating and capital costs were inflated at 7.2% for
1990 and; 4.4% each year till 1995. Thereafter, costs were held
constant. Thio tariff increases were assumed: (1) an 80% increase
in the domestic tariffs during 1990 and; (2) an overall increase by
10% starting 1992. Tariffs thereafter were held constant.



- 73 -                    Annex 6.5
Page 2/3
4. Tariff Increase: An overall increase in domestic tariffs of 80% is
assumed starting in January 1990.
5. Transfers To Plant: the Project will be implemented between
1990  and  1994. Approximately  70%  of the  project will be
transferred from work in process to plant in service during 1992.
Most of the remaining 30% will be transferred during 1993.
6. Capitalized interest: Interest expense during construction is
capitalized at the following rates: 100% in 1989; 100% in 1990; 100%
in 1991; 75% in 1992 and; 47% in 1993.
7. Depreciation: The plant is assumed to have a useful life of 25
years. Depreciation expenses and the amortization of capitalized
interest are calculated at 4% on the average balance of Plant in
Service.
8. Income Taxes: EPTL will pay income taxes to the LAO
Government at 5% on net annual revenues.
B. Financing Assumptions for EPTL
1. Telecom 2 Loan: Will finance 60% of the direct project costs
(excluding capitalized Interest). The loan wiU have a maturity
period of 20 years with 5 years grace on principal repayments;
and will carry an 8% Interest rate. First drawdown is made in 1990
and annual principal repayments of $1.543 begin during 1996.
2. Working Capital Financing: EPTL is assumed to set up a line of
credit in order to finance working capital requirements, such as,
inventories of spares. This will be a revolving account and will
bear an 8% interest rate.
C. Financiag Assumptions for the LAO Government
1. IDA II Loan: WiL finance approximately $24.5 million. The loan
will be made to the LAO Government and will have a maturity
period of 40 years with 10 years grace. The loan will carry a .75%
interest rate. The first drawdown wiUl be made in 1990 and the
first principal repayment of $.667 million will be made in 2001.
2. UNDP Grant: Will finance $1.2 million in the form of grants.
These wiUl bear no interest or principle repayment.
3. Japanese Grant: The remaining financing required of
approximately $11.7 wiU be funded by the Japanese Government as
a bilateral grant to the LAO Government.
D. Financial Management Parameters
1. Cash Position: Based on months of operating expenses at 1.2
months during 1989 and 1990; 1.5 months for period 1993-1998 and;
12 months for 1999 through 2010.



- 74 -                      Annex 6.5
Page 3/3
2. Accounts Receivable: Based on months of annual revenues at 2.5
months during 1989 and 1990; 2.5 months for period 1993-1998 and;
2.5 months thereafter.
3. Inventories: Based on percentage of net plant in service at 2%
during 1989 and 1990; 5% for period 1993 to 19989 and; 7% for
1999 through 2010.
4. Accounts Payable: Based on months of operating expenses at 2
months during 1989 and 1990; 2.0 months for period 1993 through
1998 and; 2.0 months thereafter.
Major Repairs Fund: equity account established to reserve funds
for major repairs based on percentage of akLnual depreciation
expense at 10% during 1989 and 1990; 20% for period 1991-1993
and; 30% thereafter.



- 75 -                                               Annex 6.6
Page 116
:9-Jn-89                                                                                              30S Increase In Domestic
LAO PDR                                         Rte Starting in 1990
gntreprise D'Etat Des Paste Et Telecomnunications '.AO (EPTL)
Second Telecomaunications Project
F'inancial Projections
SUNHARY OF [BY FINAICtAL INDICATORS
Currency Amounts In Thousands
----- --------------------------- -----------------------Projected------------------
1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      196      1997      1998       1999      2000
PROJECTION PARANETERS
Currency:                Dollars
Prices/Costs:            Current
Eschange Rte:            600 lips:l 05$
Rev. Escalation 8ate:          0.02      0.0S      0.0S     10.0S      0.0S      0.01       0.01      0.0S      0.0S      0.02      0.0S      0.0S
Rev. Escalation Factor:    1.00         1.00      1.00      1.10      1.10       1.10      1.10      1.10      1.10      1.10      1.1G      1.1G
Cost Escalation Rates:           02        7S        42         42        42        42        42        02        02        0S        02        02
Cost Bscalation Factor:    1.00         1.07      1.12      1.17      1.22       1.27      1.33      1.33      1.33      1.33      1.33      1.33
OPBRATING STATISTICS
Operating Revenues            1329      2135      2310      3475      4912      6162       7068      7769      8480      9294    1022?      11292
Operating Expenses             690       938      1045      1691      2621      3099       3U10      3262      3281      3290      3296      3299
Net Income                     507      1009      1054       979       653       334       1030      1704      2484      3140      4144      5261
Cash from Operations           735      1373      149       2521      3797      4901      5642       6271      6927      7685      8565      9560
Revenues Earned in PI    $1,089   $1,217   $1,380   $1,924   $2.677   $3,417   $4,065   $4,552   $5,041   $5,565   $6,148   $6,800
Orerating Ratio                 522       442       452       492        532       502       452       422       392       352       322       292
Total Assets                  8918    19703    38468    49356    53886    52493    51117    48906    46693    44501    46147    43973
Vorking Capital                333       541       564    1,296    3,208    3,374    1,951    1,992    2,036    1,950    5,814    5,902
Working Capital/Days           174       208       194       276       441       392        219       220       223       213       635       644
FINANCIAL RATIOS
Financial IlR                16.52S
Current Ratio                 3.77      4.29      4.10      5.08      6.76      6.33       1.89      1.91      1.93      1.83      3.44      3.49
Debt/Equity Ratio             0.46      0.80      1.04      1.08      1.06      1.15       1.16      1.12      1.08      1.03      0.82      0.77
Debt Service Coverage           18       213       174         5          2         3         3         2         2         2         2         4
Self Financing latio          11.32     12.62      7.82    22.92    90.52   845.32
Return on Revenues            38.22    47.32    45.62       28.22     13.32       5.42     14.62    21.92    29.3S    33.82    40.52         46.62
Return on Assets               6.02      5.3S      2.82      2.12      1.32      0.7S       2.22      3.82      5.82      7.82     10.92     14.72
Return on  gquity              8.42      9.32      5.62      4.12      2.52       1.42      4.52      7.72    11.6S      15.22    17.22    22.32
CAPITALIZATION
BPTL Investment Prog.         6523     10863    19121    10994        4197       580        730         0         0         0         0         d
. ............ ...................... ................. .. ..... ... ..........................
Telcom Projects             6503    10651    18303        9882      3350       580       730          0         0         0         0         0
Capitalized Interest          20       212       818      1113       846         0         0          0         0         0         0         0
Financing Sources             6523     10863    19121      10994      4197       580        130         0         0         0         0         0
;~~                                   .....................................................................
Telcon 2 Loan                  0      4157    iG698       5929      2010       348          0         0         0         0         0         a
IDA I Loar                 2320       1770        69         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         t
Foreign Grants              1989      1197       131         0         0         0         0          0         0         0                   0
Lao Govt Equity Coot.        625      2515      6756      3649      1264         0         0          0         0         0         0         0
EPTL Proj. Cont.            1589      1165      1466      1416       923       232       730          0         0         0         0         0
TELCOK II PRlOJCT
Total Cost               38,570            IDA II Loan            24,500
Capitaliged Interest    2,015              Japanese Grant         11,686
---------           UNDP Grant             1.200
BPTL Contribution      4,000
Total Required           41,385            Total Sources          41.385
..            .     .   .       .   .    .    .    .     .    .    .      .   .     .   .     .     .    .    .    .     .     .   .     .    .



- 76 -                                                 Annex 6.6
Page 2/6
I9-Jan-89                                              LAO POR                                          80S increase In Domestic
Bonreprise DO't&t Des Poste St Telecouuaications LAO (8PTL)                   Rate Starting  in 1990
Second Telecommunications Project
Financial ProJections
Dollars                                                           INCOES STATENROT
Current                                          :::
Currency Aaoutts In Thousands                                          600 Iips:l US3
-..........................                                     ...Projected.--------------------------------
1919      1990      1991       1992      1993      1994       1995      1996      1991       1998      1999      2000
NET REVBNURS                     1329      2135       2310      3475       4912      6162      7068       7769      8480      9294      1022?     11292
(After Quote Part)
............................................
Operating Expenses
Katerials                      19        20        21         22        23         24        25        25        25         25        25         25
Repair & laintentace          112       126       142        175       220       261        304       329       342        348       352        355
Electricity                    35        59        66         81       102       121        141       152       158        161       163        164
Carburast                      25        27        28         29        31        32         33        33        33         33        33         33
Transport                      47        50        52         55        57        6B         62        62        62         62        62         62
Salary                        233       301       314        328       343       358        374       374       374        3t4       374        374
gap [ns A Fringes              19        25        26         27        28        29         30        30        30         30        30         30
Depreciation                  200       330       395        974      1818      2215      2241       2255      2255      2255       2255      2255
--.                                            .....--                             -       -......
Subtotal                 690       938       1045      1691      2621       3099      3210      3262      3281       3290      3296       3299
NIT OPERATING PROFIT              639      1197       1265      1784      2290       3063      3858      4508       5199      6004      6931       7992
Kajor Repair Reserves          20        33        40        195       364       443       448        451       451        6?7       677        677
lnterest                        1         I         1       373        962      1910      1923       1861      1737      1611       1489      1366
Administration                 19        27        28         29        31        32         33        33        33         33        33         33
Training i [now how             I         I          I         I         I          1        13        13        13         13        13         13
Satelite Rip.                  18        19        25         32        34        35         57        57        57         64        64         77
Subtotal                  65        81         95       631      1391      2421       2475      2415      2291       2399      2276       2167
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES               574      1116       1170      1153       899        642      1383      2092       2908      3605      4655       5826
Taxes                          66       107       116        174       246       308        353       388       424       465        511       565
............................................................ .
NET PROFIT/(LOSSI                 507      1009       1054       979        653       334      1030       1704      2484      3140      4144       5261
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::  :::::::  :::::  ::::::::::  ::  : 



- 77 -                                              Annex 6.6
Page 3/6
19-Jan-89                                                LAP PLO                                             801 Increase Inf Domestic
Entreprise D'Etat Des Poste Et Telecommunicatlions LAO IEPTYL                    Rate Starting'in 1990
Second Telecommunications Project
Financial Projections
Dollars                                                          FLOV OF FUNDS STATENENT
Current
Currency Amounts In Thousands                                             600 lips:11 US$
.---------------------------                                             Projected --------------------------------
1989      1990       1991       1992       1993       1994      1995       1996       1997       1998       1999      2006
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
Net Incose Before Imt            515       1010       1055       1352      1616       2244       2953       3565       4221      4753       5633       6626
Add: Depreciation Exp            200        330        395        974      1818       2215       2241       2255       2255      2255       2255       2255
Add: Major Repair Res.            20         33         40        195        364       443        446        451        451        67?       677        67?
Operating Cask. Fiov                735      1373       1490       2521       3797       4901      5642       6271       6927       7685       8565      956[
Add: Beg Cash Position          1430         73         99        I10        17!       336        396        414        421        423       425       3406
Vorking Cap Incil0ec)            410        185         it        695      1836         102        98         29        3.7         80       92C         63
CASH BEFORE DEBT SERVICE           1755      1261       1578       1937       2136       5135      5940       6656       7311       8048       8070     12902
DEBT SERVICE
Interest Charges                    7         I          1        373       962       1910       1923       1861       1737      1613       1489       1366
Repayment of Notes                91          5          8          a         36       120        116        113        107        101         97       133
Principal Repayments                0         0          0          0          0          0         0       1543       1543      1543       1697       169?.
Total Debt Service                   98          6          9       381        998       2030      2039       3516       3387       325?       328L      3196
CASH AFTER DEBT SERVICE            1657      1255       1568       1556       1139       31.05     3901       3140       3924       4791       4787      9706
CAPITAL INVESTNENT REQUIREMENTS
Telecom Projects                6503      10651      18303       9882      3350        580        730          0,         0          0
Capitalized Interest              20        212        818       1113        846          0          0         0          0          0          0          0
Annual Cajital1 .aest-          6523      10863      19121     10994       4197        580        730          0          0          0          0          0
Add: Cash Ending Bal.             73         99        110        175        336       396        414        421        423       425       3406       3423
~INANCIMG REQUIREMENTS            4940       9707      17662       9613       3394     -2129      -2756      -2719      -3501      -4366     -1381      -6283
FUNDS FRON LOANS I GRANTS
Grants (UNDP &Others)           1989       1197        131          0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0         0
IDA 1                           2320       1770         69          0          0         0          0          0          0          0          0         0
Loan' Tel Proj. 2                  0       4157     10698       5929       2011,       348          0          0          0          0          0         0
Working Capital %oans               5         8          8         36        120        116       113        107        102         97       133        125
Funds Frm Loans I Grants          4314       7132      10906       5965       2130        464       113        107        102         97        133        125
REMAINING FUNDS R8R,JIRED            15      2575       6756       3649       1264     -2593      -2869      -2826      -3603      -4462     -1514      -6408
GOVT EQUITY CONTRIBUTION            625      2576       6756       3649       1264          0          0          0         0          0          0          0
FUNDS AVAIL FOR DIVIDENDS             8          0          0         0          0       2593      2869       2826       3603       4462      1514       6400
CASH ENDING POSITION
Annual Cash Inkc i(Dec)        -1357         26         11         65        160        60         18          6          2          2      2981         17
Opening Cash Blaance            1430         73         99        110        175       336        396        414        421        423       425       3406
Ending Cash Balance                  73        99        110        175        336        396       414        421        423        425      3406       3423
EPTL CONTRIBUTION                 1589       1165       1466       1416        923        232       730          0          0          0          0          0



Annex 6.6
- 78 -                                            Page 4/6
19-3an 89                                             LAO PDI                                          80S Increase In Domestic
Entreprise DtBtat Des Poste Et Telecommunications LAO (IPTLI                 Rate Starting  in 1990
Second teleconmunications Project
Financial Projections
Dollars                                                          BALANCE SEEBT
Current
Currency Amounts In Thousands                                         600 Kips:1 05$
-----------------------------------------------------P-------Projected.--------------------------.------
1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994       1995      1996      1997      1998      1999       2000
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
Plant in Service              6628      9880      9880      38334    55075    55655    56385    56385          56385    36385    56385    56385
Less: Acc. Depreciation         1436       1766      2161      3136      4954      7168      940i    11665       13920    16175      18431    20686
Net Fixed Assets              5192      8114       7719    35698    50121    48486    46976    44120    42465    40209    37954    35699
Work in Process               3272     10883     30004    12044           0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0
TOTAL FIXED ASSBTS              8464    18997    37723    47743    50121    48486    46976    44720    42465    40209    37954    35699
CURRENT ASSBTS
Cash                            73         99       110       175       336       396       414        421       423       425      3406      3423
Accounts Receivable            277       445        481       724      1023      1284      1472      1619       1767      1936      2131      2352
Inventories                    104       162        154       714      2406      2327      2255      2147      2038       1930      2657      2499
TOTAL CURR1NT ASSETS             454        706       ?46      1613      3765      4007      4141       4186      4228      4291      8193       8274
TOTAL ASSETS                    8918      19703    38468    49356    53886    52493         51117    48906    46693    44501    46147    43973
LIABILITIES I NET WORTH
EQUITY
EPTL Capital                  2207      2207      2207       2207      2207      2207      2207      2207       2207      2207      2207      2207
Net Income                     507      1516      2570       3550      4203      4538      5567      7271       9755    12895      17039    22300
Dividends Disttibuted            0          0         0         0         0    -2593      -5463     -8289   -11892   -16354    -17868    -24277
EPTL Retained Earnings        2714      3723      4777       5757      6410      4151      2312       1189        70    -1252       1377       230
LAO Contrib.(Projectsl         625      3200      9957      13605     14869    14869      14869     14869    14869       14869     14869     14869
Foreign Grants                2458      3655      3786       3786      3786      3786      3786      3786       3786      3786      3786      3786
Kajor Repair Fund              214       247        287       481       845      1288      1736      2187       2638      3315      3991      4668
TOTAL NET WORTO                 6012    10826       18807    23630    25910    24094    22703    22031    21363    20717    24024              23553
BORRO WINGS
IDA 1                         2786      45        4625       4625      4625      4625      4625      4625      4625       4625      4471      4317
Loan Tel. Project 2              0      4151    14855    20784    22794    23142    23142    21599    20056              18513     16971     15428
Less: Current Portion               0         0         0         0          0         0      1543      1543      1543      1697      1697       1697
... .. ...... ......... . .... ..... ........ ............. ... ... ... ... .... ..... . ...... ............ ...... .......... . .... ..... . . ... . ..
TOTAL BORROWINGS                2786      8713      19480    25409    27419    27767    26224    24681           23138    21441      19745     18048
CURRENT L[ABILITIES
Accounts Payable               115        156       174       282       437       516       535        544       547       548       549       550
Notes Pajable                    5          8         8        36       120       116        113       107       102        97       133       125
Current Portion of Debt          0          0         0         0         0          0     1543       1543      1543      1697      1697      1697
.   ................  .. ... .... .............. ........... ................... ................... .................................... .......... ............... .... ...... .
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES         120       165       182       318       557        633      2191'    2194       2192      2342      2379       2372
TOTAL LIABS. & NET VORTE        8918      19703    38468    49356    53886    52493    51117    48906    46693    44501    46147    43973



- 79                                                 Annex 6.6
Page 5/6
19-Jan-89                                            LAO PDR                                         80S Increase In Dosestic
Eutreprise D'Etat Des Poste St Telecommunications LAO (EPTL)               Rate Starting in 1990
Second Telecommunications Project
Financia.i'Proie~ctions
FINANCING PLAN
Dollars
Current                                                   Currency Amounts In Thousands                    600 kips l US$
TOTAL INVESTIENT PROGRAN        1989      1990      1991       992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1199    Total
Pinancing Required
Project II Costs                 0      6928    17830       9882      3350       580         0         0         0         0         0    38570
Cap. Interest Rip.               0       166       760      1069       819         0         0         0         0         0         0      2815
Total                            0      7094    18591    10951        4169       580         0         0         0         0         0    41385
Project I Costs               3666      2652       473         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0      6791
Cap. Interest Rip.              20        46        57        43        27         0         0         0         0         0         0       194
Total                         3686      2698       530        43        27         0         0         0         0         0         0      6985
Other Projects                  2837      1371         0         0         0         0       730         0         0         0         0      4638
. --- - . .                   .---.-----.                   . -. .---- --. --- --.- --- -    - .---- -    .--. -  ---.   -- ---- -- .--. .- .---- ---. --.-  --- ---
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIUD         6523    10863    19121    10994         4197       580       730         0         0         0         0    53008
Financing Sources
Telcos 2 Loan                    0      4157    10698       5929      2010       348         0         0         0         0         0    23142
IDA I                        2320       1770        69         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0      4159
Grants                        1989      1197       131         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0      3317
Govt 8quity Contrib.           625      2575      6756      3649      1264         0         0         0         0         0         0    14869
EPTL Proj. Contrib.           1589      1165      1466      1416       923       232       730         0         0         0         0      7521
FINANCING SOURCBS               6523    10863    19121    10994         4197       580       730         0         0         0         0    53008
PROJECT TELCON II ONLY          1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999    Total
Financing Required
Project II Costs                 0      6928    17830       9882      3350       580         0         0         0         0         0    385^0
Cap. Interest Rip.               0       166       760      1069       819         0         0         0         0         0         0      2815
Total                            0      7094    18591      10951      4169       580         0         0         0         0         0    41385
Financing Sources
Telcom 2 Loan                    0      4157    10698       5929      2010       348         0         0         0         0         0    13142
Govt Equity Contrib.             0      2575      6756      3649      1264         0         0         0         0         0         0    i4243
8eTL Proj. Contrib.              0       363      1136      1373       896       232         0         0         0         0         0      40)0
Total Sources                    0      7094    18591    10951        4169       580         0         0         0         0         u    4185



- 80 -                                               Annex 6.6
Page 676
19-Jan-89                                              LAO PDI                                           40% Increase In Domestic
Entreprise D'Btat Des Poste Et Telecommunications LAO 16PTL1                  late Storting in 1990
Second Telecommunications Project
Financial Proj ections
LAO GOVT OUTFLOIS/INFLOVS WITH PROJECT
Current
Dollars                                                      Currency Amounts In Thousands                                600 Kips:1 USS
1989      1990      1991       1992      1993       1994      1995      1996       1997      1998       1999      2000
INFLOWS
IDA Loan II                       0      5102     12311       5258      1830          0          0         0         0          0         0         O
UNDP Grant                        0       375        280       291        253         0          0         0         0          0         0          0
Japanese Grant                    O      1255       4864      4028       1191       348          0         0          0         0         0          0
taxes from EPTL                  66       107        116       174       246        308       353        388       424       465        511       565
Interest from PPTL                0          0         0       356       924       1837      1851       1790      1666      1543       1419      1296
Repayents of Principal            0          0         0         0          0         0          0      1543      1543      1543       1543      1543
Diviaends                         0          0         0         0          0      2593      2869       2826      3603      4462       1514      6408
Total Inflotio                     66       6838     17570     10108       4443      5087       5074      6547       7236      8012      4988       9812
OUTFLOVS
Onlending To EPTL                 0      4157      10698      5929      2010        348          0         0         0          0         0          0
Govt Equity Contrib.              0      2575       6756      3649      1264          0          0         0         0          0         0         0
Interest Paysents                 0         19        84       150        177       184       184        184       184       184        184       184
Pricipal Reptyments               0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0
Total Outflows                       0     6751      1753S      9728       3451       532        184       184       184        184       184        184
MET DBEEFITS                       66         88        31       380        993      4555      4890       6363      7052       7829      4804      9628
2001      2002      2003       2004      2005      2006       2007      2008       2009      2010                Total
INFLOWS
IDA Losan I                       0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0         0          0               24500
UNOP Grant                        0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0         0          0                1200
Japanese Grant                    0          0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0          0               11686
Taxes from 8PTL                 622       657        684       698        708       718       728        139       750       761                10786
Interest from EPTL             1173      1049        926       802       679        555       432       309        185       123                18916
Repayments of Principal    1543          1543       1543      1543      1543       1543      1543       1543      1543          0               21599
Dividends                      7605      8488      9152       9593      9926      10239     i0558     10886      11218     13034               124976
Total Inflows                   10942     11737      12304     12635      12856     13054     13261      13476     13696      13919              213662
OUTPLOVS
Onlending To EPTL                 0          0         0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0               23142
Govt  gquity Contrib.             0          0         0         0          O         0          0         0         0          0               14243
Interest Payments               181       175        168       162       156        150       144        138       132       126                 3248
Pricipal Repayments             817       817        817       817       817        817       817        817       817       817                 8167
Total Outflows                    997        991       985       979        973       967        961       954       948        942               48800
NrT BENEFITS                     9945     10746      11319     11656      11883     12014     12301      12522     12748      12977              164862



- 81 -
Annex 7.1
Page 1/6
4    J                    LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO ( EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Return on Investment
1.    The Investment Program 1990-95 of EPTL which comprises the proposed
Second Telecommunications Project, also includes several ongoing works and
future projects by IDA, other donors, and ErTL.   Any attempt to separate
the benefits of these different works and projects would at best be
arbitrary.   The rates of return are therefore' calculat.d on the basis of
EPTL's entire Telecommunications Investment Program 1990-95.
2.    Costs and Benefits have been projected for the period 1990 to 2012,
the period, representing the useful life of the envisaged investments. Rates
of return have been calculated on an incremental basis, comparing cases
"with" and "without" the Program, and deriving incremental cost and benefit
streams.   Whereas in the "without" case the existing network would rapidly
deteriorate further and yield declining revenues, the calculations conserva-
tively have assumed under the "without scenario" a continuation of EPTL's
operations at levels of 1989 held constant. Thus the incremental benefits
and costs which are due to the Investment Program, result, by deducting the
benefits and costs of the "without" case.
3.    Projections for the case "with" the Investment Program have been
carried out in US dollars; local costs and benefits are expressed also in US
dollars using the exchange rate of US$1 - Kip 600 as of July 1989. All
investment and operating costs have been inflated at the projected US$
inflation rate of 7.2X in 1990 and 4.41 until 1995. Thereafter, projections
have been expressed in constant terms.  Revenue Projections are based on
projected development of traffic over the life of the investment, multiplied
by the appropriate tariffs. For 1990, an increase of domestic tariffs of
80X has been taken into account.   For the financial rate of return, one
tariff adjustment of 10% in 1992 has been assumed to allow for sufficient
cash generation during the implementation period. Thereafter, tariffs have
been kept constant in current terms until 1995, implying a decrease of
tariffs in real terms of up to 23X. After 1995, all projections (tariffs and
costs) have been held constant. The resulting financial internal rate of
return (FRR) is 12.01. Cost and benefit streams are shown on Page 3.
4.    As a first proxy for the economic internal rate of return (ERR), the
following adjustments have been introduced to the cost and benefit streams
of the FRR, resulting in an adjusted FRSR:
(a)   Tariffs have been kept constant in current US dollar terms from 1990
onwards (i.e. after the adjustment of domestic tariffs in January 1990)
until 1995, implying that (i) domestic tariff would be adjusted in line
with domestic inflation and resulting devaluations of the kip in Lao
PDR and (ii) consumers would benefit from a decline of overall tariffs
of up to 331 at the end of the period. After 1995 tariffs have been
kept constant. Revenues result from multiplication of traffic streams
with those tariffs.



Annex 7.1
Page 2/6
-82-
(b)   Capital costs have been inflated by above inflation rates on the US
dollar until end 1995, and have been kept constant thereafter. Since
there were no taxes and duties oa capital costs, and local capital
costs are minimal, no adjustment has been carried out.
(c)   Operating costs have also been inflated till 1995 and kept constarnt
thereafter.   Th,ey have been corrected for income taxes (transfer
payment).    Most  operating  cost  items  (materials,  spares,  fuel,
transport) are incurred in US dollars reflecting border prices.
Therefore they were not adjusted.   Electricity costs which were
estimated under the financial analysis, taking account of the expected
tariff increase in end 1989, have been recalculated on an economic
price of US$0.045 per kwh (US$0.03/kwh borderprice fcr electricity at
115kV, and US$0.015 for stepping down and distributio:u costs). Labor
cost and fringe benefits, under the financial analysis have been
estimated, taking account of pending major salarv adjustments in Lao
PDR.   For the economic analysis they have been multiplied with a
conversion factor, resulting in a cost increase of 15% based on the
following assumptions: For about 20X of the total work force (i.e. the
engineers, and highly qualified technicians and cadres) average
salaries have been tripled to allow fo_ their scarcity and opportunity
costs in terms of alternative employment.   For the remaining work
force, a conversion factor of 70% has been applied to account for
unemployment and resulting low opportunity costs of labor. N- other
adjustments have been made.
The resulting adjusted FRR comes to 11.1%.
5.    As a second proxy for the ERR, above calculations have been modified
further as follows: To at least partly account for the consumer surplus of
un-quantifiable benefits resulting from improved accessibility to, and
quality of an expanded telecommunications network, the one-time increase of
tariffs in 1991 by 10%, required for the cash generation and financial health
of EPTL, is admitted in the ERR calculations as a proxy on a "Willingness to
Pay" argument. No other adjustments are undertaken.
6.    The resulting return,  called ERR,  amounts to 12.6%.   This  is a
respectable return in the context of Lao PDR. If tariffs were to be allowed
to rise in line with projected inflation (i.e. would remain constant in real
terms), the resulting ERR would be 16.5%. A comparison of tariffs over a
period of time in a large number of IDA countries is presently being
undertaken. A cursory review shows, that in countries with small networks
and/or large needs of network expansion and therefore investments, typically
tariffs have been maintained at constant levels in real terms. This would
argue in favor of the higher ERR. For the purpose of this project, the more
conservative number of 12.6% has been chosen, however.
7.    A sensitivity analysis is shown on page 6 of this Annex (both for the
FRR and ERR (second proxy)). It shows that even in the case of a combination
of adverse effects (10% decrease in revenues, 10% increase in capital and
operating costs) the ERR does not drop significantly below 10%.
October 1989



-83  -
Annex 7.1
Page 3/6
LAD POR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMU"NICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECNJMIC6ATIONS PROJECT
Return on Investment
Financial Internal Rates of Return
Inerementat Costs and Benefits of the Progrsn
(USS Million, Current Terms Until 1995, Constant Thereafter)
Operating            Incremental Incremental    Net    Deflator      Net
Program Cost and Operating  Operating   Operating  Benefits  (Divide   8enefits
FY   Costs    Taxes    Revenue  Costs&Taxes   Revenue   (Current)        By:)   (Real)
1990  10651       762       2135          81          501    -10231       1.07     -9544
1991  18303      1051       2310         340          604    -18039       1.12    -16118
1992   9882       954       3475         212         1694     -8400       1.17     -7189
1993   3350      1115       4912         340         3053      -637       1.22      -523
1994    580      1261       6162         4!2         4221      3189       1.27      2504
1995    730      1426       7068         582         5042      3730       1.33      2806
1996      0      1498       7769         654         5743      5089       1.33      3828
1997      0      1553       8480         709         6454      5745       1.33      4321
1998      0      1609       9294         765         7268      6503       1.33      4FQ1
1999      0      1662      10227         818         8201      73 3       1.33      5553
2000      0      1732      11292         888         9266       '378      '.33      6302
2001      0      1803      12448         959        10422      9463       1.33      7118
2002      0      1843      13142         999        11116     10117       1.33      7610
2003      0      1872      13671        1028        11645     10617       1.33      7986
2004      0      1888      13950        1044        11924     10880       1.33      8183
2005      0      1902      14055        1058        12129     11071       1.33      8327
2006      0      1914      14352        1070        12326     11256       1.33      8466
2007      0      1928      14561        1084        12535     11451       1.33      8613
2008      0      1940      14777        1096        12751     11655       1.33      8766
2009      0      1954      14997        1110        12971     11861       1.33      8921
2010      0      1969      15221        1125        13195     12070       1.33      9078
2011      0      1969      15221        1125        13195     12070       1.33      9078
2012  -7531      1969      15221        1125        13195     19601       1.33     14743
Financial Internal Rate of Return (FRR):
Current Terms:           RealTerms:
Estimate:       10.0X                10.0X
Actual:         13.8X                12.0X
Source Bank Staff
October 1989



-_84 -
Amnex 7.1
Page 4/6
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECCtlNICATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMIUNICATIONS PROJECT
Return on Investment
Adjusted Financial Internal Rates of Return
A. Tariffs Constant in Current Terms (1990-1995)
Adjusted Incremental Costs and Benefits of the Program
(USS Miltion, Current Terms Until 1995, Constant Thereafter)
Incremental Incremental    Net    Deflator      Net
Program operating Operating  operating   Operating  Benefits  (Divide   Benefits
FY   Costs    Cost     Revenue      Cost        Revenue   (Current)      By:)   (Real)
1990  10651       733       2135          61          501    -10211       1.07     -9525
1991  18303      1008       2310         306          604    -18005       1.12    -16088
1992   9882       874       3159         141         1378     -8644       1.17     -7398                                h
1993  3350        976       4465         211         2606      -954       1.22      -782
1994    580      1072       5602         273         3661      2808       1.27      2205
1995    73n      1204       6425         370         4399      3299       1.33      2481
1996      0      1247       7063         413         5037      4624       1.33      3478
1997      0      1269       7709         435         5683      5248       1.33      3947
1998      0      1285       8449         451         6423      5972       1.33      4492
1999      C      '293       9297         459         7271      6812       1.33      5124
2000      0      1310      10265         476         8239      7764       1,33      5839
2001      0      1324      11316         490         9290      8800       1.33      6619
2002      0      1330      11947         496         9921      9425       1.33      7089
2003      0      1332      12428         498        10402      9904       1.33      7449
2004      0      1335      12682         501        1065ip    10155       1.33      7638
2005      0      1339      12868         505        10842     10337       1.33      7775
2006      0      1341      13047         507        11021     10514       1.33      7908
2007      0      1346      13237         512        11211     10699       1.33      8047
2008      0      1347      13434         513        11407     10894       1.33      8194
2009      0      1351      13634         517        11607     11091       1.33      8342
2010      0      1355      13837         521        11811     11290       1.33      8492
2011      0      1355      13837         521        11811     11290       1.33      8492
2012  -7531      1355      13837         521        11811     18821       1.33     14156
Adjusted Financial Internal Rate of Return:
(As Proxy for the Economic Rate of Return)
Current Terms        RealTerms:
Estimate:      10.0X                10.0X
Actual :      12.82                11.1X
Source lank Staff
October 1989



-85 -
Annex 7.1
Page 5/6
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOSUNICA1IONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS FROJECT
Return on Investment
Adjusted Financial Internal Rates of Return
B. Tariffs Increased in 19 9, Constant in Current Terms tilt 1995
Adjusted Incremental Costs and Benefits of the Program
(USS Million, Current Terms Until 1995, Constant Thereafter)
Incremental Incremental    Net    Deflator      Net
Program Operating Operating  Operating   Operating  Benefits  (Divide   Benefits
FY   Costs    Cost      Revenue     Cost        Revenue   (Current)      By:)   (Real)
1990  10651       733       2135          61          501    -10211       1.07     -9525
1991  18303       m         2310          75          604    -17774       1.12    -15881
1992   9882       874       3475         141         1694     -8329       1.17     -7128
1993   3350       976       4912         211         3053      -508       1.22      -416
1994    580      1072       6162         273         4221      3368       1.27      2645
1995    730      1204       7068         370         5042      3942       1.33      2965
1996      0      1247       7769         413         5743      5330       1.33      4009
1997      0      1269       8480         435         6454      6019       1.33      4527
1998      0      1285       9294         451         7268      6817       1.33      5127
1999      0      1293      10227         459         8201      7742       1.33      5823
2000      0      1310      1129          476         9266      8790       1.33      6611
2001      0      1324      12448         490        10422      9932       1.33      7470
2002      0      1330      13142         496        11116     10620       1.33      7988
2003      0      1332      13671         498        11645     11147       1.33      8384
2004      0      1335      13950         501        11924     11423       1.33      8592
2005      0      1339      14155         505        12129     11624       1.33      8743
2006      0      1341      14352         507        12326     11819       1.33      8889
2007      0      1346      14561         512        12535     12023       1.33      9043
2008      0      1347      14777         513        12751     12238       1.33      9204
2009      0      1351      14997         517        12971     12454       1.33      9367
2010      0      1355      15221         521        13195     12674       1.33      9532
2011      0      1355      15221         521        13195     12674       1.33      9532
2012  -7531      1355      15221         521        13195     20204       1.33     15197
Adjusted Financial Internal Rate of Return:
(As Proxy for the Economic Rate of Return)
Current Terms        RealTerms:
Estimate:      20.0X                10.0X
Actual :      14.46                12.6X
Source Bank Staff
October 1989



-86 -
Annex 7.1
Page 6/6
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOWMU I CATIONS LAO (EPTL)
SECOND TELECOJUNICATIONS PROJECT
Return on Investment
Financial and Economic Internal Rates of Return
Sensitivity Analysis on Rates of Return
finarcial Rate      Adjusted FRR
of Return (FRR)      (called: ERR)
Cw42oeq nt                          Change                      (X)                  tX)
BASE CASE                              OX                      12.0                 12.6
a) Progr#n Costs                     +10X                      10.9                 11.5
-102                      13.2                13.9
b) Operating Costs                   +1ox                      11.7                 12.4
-10a                     12.3                 12.9
c) Revenues                          +10O                      13.7                 14.3
-102                      10.2                10.9
d) CtRbination: All Costs            +10X)                      8.9                  9.7
Revemses            -10O)
e) Cambination: All Costs            -10t)                     15.4                   16
Revenues            +lOX)
f) Revenues and Operating Costs slipped by one Year            10.6                 11.2
Source: Bankstaff
October 1989



- 87                             Annex 8.1
Page 1/1
d~~~~~~~~~~~~
LAO PDR
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES E$ TELECOMhUNICA s.ONS
SECOND TELECOMMUWNICATIONS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available In the Pro3ect File
Document                                   Author
Feasibility Study and Conceptual           Telesystems Ltd.  Vientiane,
Plan (Draft).  UNDP Project                December 1989.
LAO/85/018.
Bidding Documents for Construction         EPTL.  Vientiane, September 1989.
of Building for Telephone Exchanges
in Vientiane.
Switching Systems and Network              H. Valkovic (ITU Senior Expert).
Specification.  Mission Report.            Vientiane, July 1989.
UNDP Project LAO/85/018.
Report Prepared for the Government         H. Valkovic (ITU Senior Expert).
of the Lao PDR on the Vientiane            Geneva, April 1989.
Local Network Optimization.
Quarterly Reports on the Telecom-          EPTL and Telesystems Ltd.
munications Rehabilitation and              Vientiane, 1989.
Technical Assistanc Project
(Credit 1684-LA), with information
applicable to the Second Telecom-
munications Project.



I  t -  ,0*C aH INA
22           ~CHINA                                                                                                  MAMR0,O
W                       ~~~~VIET NAM                                             ?O'tS[~0~
MYANMAR
T'IAJ[AND
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~
THAILAND
SOUTH
{2 9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHJAhA
__                                                                                    S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EA
:: 8'              {           _         VE/fF CFU                'F   F                 \\                                    VIET      
~t HQH                              V/FNJMlVf                        \J  < Vr&NuT A Nf                       NAM 
LAO PEOPLE'S                                                \              J           / _
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                     C7<                                         '
PROJECT                                                                         *  
F9ect                           E~~~~~~~~le.6-1. siMetersi3nkm                            J si   vs8rr                b>
A       Microwam Te-mi..i Stadon                   I.s ttin 200                                    i         +              t    -         1w
Z   Mkrowm~ Rep.ter st tion                     200 - S00                                         0
-Ok                         Mk-row    Llnks                             501 lr6
Cl Teleph0  E.c-g3.                       M         1001 2000
-    HF Radio links                    M         GI-M.,r th.n 20o0M                                              Rlrl             1 7 
.0Ear Stati..                               0     S=led T- *d Vilbge
> Riv6rs P-  1rr5-nce Boond,rle-                                                                                                                               .0
50-1-   hhEtES 0    50               156       }                 ~~DEM. KAMUHA                                                                                     R    N



