Page  1
                                                September 13, 1991
Mr. Thongsavath Praseuth
Vice Minister
Telecommunciations, Posts and Civil Aviation
General Director
Entreprise d'Etat des Postes
et Telecommunications Lao
Vientiane
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Re:   Credit No. 2101-LA (Second Telecommunications Project)
      Amendment to the Project Agreement
Dear Sir:
     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Second
Telecommunications Project)  between Lao People's Democratic
Republic  (the Borrower)  and the International Development
Association (the Association) dated May 18, 1990, and to the Project
Agreement between the Association and Entreprise d'Etat des Postes
et Telecommunications Lao (EPTL) of the same date.  We refer also to
the telex dated August 19, 1991 from Mr. Palami Phommathansi,
Project Director for EPTL, regarding a request to the Association to
include miscellaneous items of civil works among those to be
procured according to local competitive bidding procedures.
     The Association is pleased to inform you that, after due
consideration, it agrees to the above request.  Therefore Part D
of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement is hereby amended to read
as follows:
      "Miscellaneous items of civil works, equipment and materials
      in packages estimated to cost less than $lOO,OOO each, and
      up to an aggregate amount of $l,500,000, may be procured
      under contracts awarded on the basis of limited
      international bidding, international or local shopping, or
      local competitive bidding, all in accordance with procedures
      satisfactory to the Association."
A copy of this letter is being forwarded to the Minister of Finance
for
his records.
     Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by
signing and dating the enclosed form of confirmation, and by
returning it to us.
                                Sincerely yours
                                Gautam S. Kaji
                                Director
                                Country Department II
                                Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO
By
   Authorized Representative
Date:  September 26, 1994
Page  2
cc: Mr. Khamsay Souphanouvong
    First Vice Minister of Economy
    Planning and Finance
    Vientiane, Lao PDR
