$zät
D0OCUME NTS
CREDIT NUMBER 2101 LA
Project Agreement
(Second Telecommnications Project)
betveen
INTENATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ENTREPRISE D'ÉTAT DES POSTES ET TÉLÉCOMMUNICATIONS LAO
Dated                              ,1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2101 LA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        1Ae                   , 1990, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO (EPTL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Lao People's Democratic Republic (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nineteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 19,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement; but only on condition that EPTL
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EPTL, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to EPTL on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS EPTL, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) EPTL declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the


﻿-2-
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
telecommunications practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and EPTL shall
otherwise agree, EPTL shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. EPTL shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. EPTL shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, EPTL shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) EPTL shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) EPTL shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by EPTL of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EPTL
Section 3.01. EPTL shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
telecommunications practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. EPTL shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and telecommunications pragtices.
Section 3.03. EPTL shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EPTL shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) EPTL shall:
(i) have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, copies of its unaudited
financial statements for such year;
(iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after


﻿-4-
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EPTL shall not incur any debt unless the net revenues of
EPTL for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the
date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at
least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of
EPTL for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of EPTL including
the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of EPTL
uaturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to telecommunications operations adjusted to
take account of EPTL's tariffs in effect at
the time of the incurrence of debt even though
they may not have been in effect during the
twelve-month period to which such revenues
relate and net non-operating income; and


﻿-5-
(B) the sum of all expenses related to
telecommunications operations including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
provision for depreciation, other non-cash
operating charges and interest and other
charges on debt.
(iv) The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
*                               related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
of taxes,*- incurred in the generation of reve-
nues in (A) above.
(v) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate of -repayments (including sinking fund
payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vi) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EPTL shall produce, for each of the three fiscal years
after its fiscal year ending December 31, 1989, funds from
internal sources equivalent to not less than the amount of funds
required to fund at least 5% of the annual average of EPTL's
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for the
first fiscal year and the next two following fiscal years.
Thereafter, EPTL shall produce, for each year and until completion
of the Project, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less
than the amount of funds required to fund at least 15% of the
annual average of EPTL's capital expenditures incurred, or
expected to be incurred, for the first fiscal year and the next
following fiscal year.


﻿-6-
(b) Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, EPTL
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by EPTL and acceptable
to the Association, review whether it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy
of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that EPTL would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for EPTL's fiscal years
covered by such review, EPTL shall promptly take all necessary
measures, including, without limitation, requesting the Borrower
to adjust the structure or levels of its tariffs, in order to meet
such requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to telecommunications operations, net non-
operating income and auy reduction in working
capital other than cash; and
(B) the sum of: (1) all expenses related to
telecommunications operations, including
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes
and payments in lieu of taxes .(excluding
provision for depreciation and other non-cash
operating charges), debt service requirements,
other cash distributions of surplus, increase
in working capital other than cash and other
cash outflows other than capital expenditures;
and (2) major repairs expenditures.
(ii) The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) *revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.


﻿-7-
(iii) The term "working capital other than cash" means
the difference between current assets excluding
cash and current liabilities at the end of each
fiscal year.
(iv) The term "current assets excluding cash" means all
assets other than cash which could in the ordinary
course of business be converted into cash within
twelve months, including accounts receivable,
marketable securities, inventories and prepaid
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses
within the next fiscal year.
(v) The term     "current liabilities" means all
liabilities which will become due and payable or
could under circumstances then existing be called
for payment within twelve months, including
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of,taxes,
and dividends..
(vi) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt..
(vii) The term    "capital expenditures" means all
expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets,
including interest charged to construction, related
to operations.
Section 4.04. EPTL shall assess and review the value of its
fixed assets in operation as of the end of each fiscal year,
starting with FY 1990, and convert into Kip the value of those
among them maintained in foreign exchange, all in accordance with
methods acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.05. EPTL shall not declare or pay any dividends,
whether in cash or in kind, until such time when all of the
investment projects consituting the TIP are fully completed.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of EPTL thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
EPTL of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                       82987 (FTCC)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
fie               For EPTL:
Entreprise d'Etat d67s Postes et
T616communications Lao
Vientiane,
LAO PDR
Cable address:                   Telex:
EPTEL-Vientiane              4491 or 4492
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of EPTL, or by EPTL on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed
by its General Director or such other person or persons as EPTL
shall designate in writing, and EPTL shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be. executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION      -
1By(: j                                          A.
Regional Vice President
Asia
ENTREPRISE D'ETAT DES POSTES ET
TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAO
Byf 6ckjI
Authorized Representative
.1


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International ComDetitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in LAO PDR may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, EPTL may grant a margin of preference
to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
Miscellaneous items of eiipment and materials in packages
estimated to cost less than $100,000 each, and up to an aggregate
amount of $1,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of limited international bidding, international or local
shopping, or local competitive bidding, all in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿- 12 -
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract aot governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in *paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist EPTL in carrying out the Project, EPTL
shall, as and when needed, employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
EPTL shall:
(a) carry out, on an annual basis and in consultation with
the Association, such reviews as may be necessary and appropriate
to update the TIP;
(b) carry out a study on the structure and level of the
Borrower's domestic and international telecommunications tariffs
by December 31, 1990, and furnish a copy of such study to the
Association for its review and comments;
(c) carry out a human resource development program in a
manner acceptable to theAssociation;
(d) maintain an operational database, the key parameters of
which are acceptable to the Association;
(e) not later than September 30 in each year, set targets
for performance indicators for the two following fiscal years
which are acceptable to the- Association, and provide the
Association, on a semi-annual basis, with progress reports
thereon;
(f) provide the Association, on a quarterly basis, with
progress reports on training, technical assistance and Project
implementation and, two rionths after completion of the Project,
with a Project completion report of such scope and detail as shall
be satisfactory to the Association;
(g)  (i) not later than December 31, 1990, establish a
system of accounts, the terms of which shall be
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) arrange for its staff to be trained thereon during
FYs 1991 and 1992;
(iii) start implementation of the system in Vientiane and
in about five major capitals by January 1, 1993;
and


﻿- 14 -
(iv) by December 31, 1993, submit to the Association a
plan for the improvement of the accounting systems
in the remaining provinces of the Borrower;
(h) carry out a program, the terms of which shall be
acceptable to the Association, which shall provide, among other
things, for collection, by December 31, 1990, of arrears predating
January 1, 1988; and
(i) starting on January 1, 1991, ensure that arrears from
governmental and non-governmental subscribers for telecommunica-
tions services, provided by EPTL, are maintained at a level
acceptable to the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Deveopment Association.
FOR SECRETARY


