Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14689
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2459-EGT)
JUNE 28, 1995
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Division
Country Department IT
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Eguivalents
Currency Unit: Egyptian Pound (LE) = 100 Piasters = 1000 Miliemas
Exchange Rates
Official            Market
Period                  End of Period      Period Average
1984                       0.700               0.8317
1985                       0.700               1.3009
1986                       0.700               1.3502
1987                       0.700               1.5015
1988                       0.700               2.2129
1989                        1.100              2.5171
1990                       2.000               2.7072
1991                                           3.3000
1992                                           3.3303
1993                                           3.3465
1994                                           3.3800
1994 (April)                                   3.3940
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                         - African Development Bank
BM                         - Banque Misr
CBE                        - Central Bank of Egypt
DFI                        - Development Finance Institution
EAF                        - Exporter Assistance Fund
EDBE                        - Export Development Bank of Egypt
EEPC                        - Egyptian Export Promotion Center
EIB                        - European Investment Bank
FC                         - Foreign Currency
GOE                        - Government of Egypt
ICR                        - Implementation Completion Report
IDB                        - Islamic Development Bank
IDBE                       - Industrial Development Bank of Egypt
ITC                        - International Trade Center
KfW                        - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LC                         - Local Currency
NBD                        - National Bank for Development
PB                         - Participating Bank
PE                         - Public Enterprise
SAR                        - Staff Appraisal Report
TA                         - Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE.
EVALUATION SUMMARY.iii
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Background   ..............................................    1
B.   Statement and Evaluation of Objectives  .............................   2
C.   Achievement of Objectives  .....................................   3
D.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  .............   6
E.   Project Sustainability .........................................   8
F.   Bank Performance   ..........................................   8
G.  Borrower Performance   .......................................   9
H.  Assessment of Outcome  .......................................  9
X.   Future Operations ..........................................   10
J.   Key Lessons Learned   .......................................    10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments  .................................   15
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans .....................................   16
Table 3:   Project Timetable  ......................................   16
Table 4:   Loan Disbursement .....................................    17
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .......................   18
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation  ..........................    19
Table 7:   Studies Included In Project  ................................   20
Table 8:   Projects and Bank Financing  ...............................   21
Table 9:   Financial Statements of Export Development Bank of Egypt (EDBE),
Banque Misr and Misr Iran Development Bank   ...................   22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .................................   28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements   ..................   33
Table 12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs   ..............................    34
Table 13: Bank Resources:  Missions  ................................   35
Appendices
A. Mission's Aide Memoire
B. Borrower's Evaluation
T|is docuiment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2459-EGT)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Export Industries Development
Project in Egypt for which Loan 2459-EGT in the amount of US$125 million equivalent to the Arab
Republic of Egypt, as the Borrower, was approved on June 28, 1984 and made effective on August
19, 1987. Subsequently, US$77.3 million was cancelled in stages following the Borrower's requests.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, compared with the original closing date of June 30, 1992.
Final disbursement took place on September 16, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by a mission' which visited Egypt in September/October 1994,
reviewed by Mr. Alastair J. McKechnie, Chief, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure
Division, and Mr. Gianni Brizzi, Project Adviser, Country Department II, Middle East and North
Africa Region. The Borrower and the financial intermediary, the Egyptian Export Development Bank
(EDBE), provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR. Preparation of this ICR
began during the Bank's final supervision mission (September 18-October 6, 1994). It is based on
material in the project files. The Borrower and the financial intermediaries (EDBE, Banque Misr and
MIDB) assisted in the preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-
memoire, preparing own evaluation of the project's execution and initial operation, and commenting
on the draft ICR.
1/    Consisting of Messrs. Yermal T. Shetty (Mission Leader, Task Manager), Nabil Shehadeh (Senior
Operations Officer) and Mr. Rouchdy Saleh (consultant, Resident Mission).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2459-EGT)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Bank has been associated with the development of the Export Development Bank of
Egypt (EDBE) right from its inception. The Bank played a key role in the development of the legal
and organization framework for EDBE by providing initially technical assistance and helping to
establish it in July 1983. Subsequently, the Bank decided to make a loan (Ln. 2459-EGT), the subject
ihis Implementation Completion Report (ICR), to help nurture the growth of EDBE as well as to
le additional technical assistance for developing exports. Of the Bank loan of US$125 million
1459-EGT) provided in 1984, US$ 118 million was to be channelled by EDBE for the
.-opment of export-oriented industries through four financial intermediaries -- the Industrial
Development Bank of Egypt (IDBE), the National Bank for Development (NBD), Banque Misr (BM)
and Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB) and the remaining US$7 million was to be used for
technical assistance for institution-building in the export sector. EDBE, which is mostly owned by
the Government of Egypt (GOE), has been serving as a development finance institution (DFI) to
promote and finance particularly export-oriented industries mostly in the private sector. Even though,
EDBE was originally intended to serve as an apex institution channelling funds through four
participating banks (PBs), it was agreed in 1987 that EDBE will serve as a PB when one PB (IDBE)
decided to pull out as it found that the fund availability from different sources exceeded the demand
for loans, and the other three PBs were also finding it difficult to market Bank funds partly because
the country was experiencing an economic recession. Subsequently, two PBs withdrew -- NBD in
1991 and MIDB in 1992. In the case of NBD, it was not able to make any sub-loan; and in the case
of MIDB, it was able to make only one/sub-loan. However, EDBE and Banque Misr served as PBs
until the loan was closed.
Project Objectives
2.    The Project aimed to support the development of export-oriented enterprises through financial
and technical assistance. According to the original plan, of the total loan of US$125 million to the
Government of Egypt (GOE, the Borrower), US$118 million was to be channeled through EDBE to
three PBs and then on to sub-borrowers investing on export-oriented ventures; EDBE was to get
US$0.5 million as a grant from the loan as technical assistance to strengthen its organization and
operations; the Egyptian Export Promotion Center (EEPC) was to get US$ 3.2 million as grant by
way of TA for its reorganization and development focusing on product and market development, the
formulation of export policies, procedures and incentives, trade information and documentation, and
training for exporters; and US$3 million was to be provided as TA grant to help establish the Export
Assistance Fund (EAF) to finance services for exporters including export market identification,
market surveys, pre-feasibility and related types of studies for export-oriented investment projects;
and US$0.3 million was to be used to pay the front end fee on the Bank loan.



iv                                                                   Evaluation Summary
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The Project experienced prolonged delays. The loan did not become effective for about three
years mainly because of disagreement between GOE and PBs on how to deal with the foreign
exchange risk under the loan which was made at a time when distortions in the financial sector were
high. The Bank and GOE wanted the sub-borrowers to assume the risk between US$ and the
Egyptian Pound, PBs wanted GOE to assume this risk for a fee, but GOE was reluctant to do so.
PBs felt that, considering the high risk of devaluation of the Egyptian Pound in an inflationary and
unstable economic environment, the demand for Bank funds by potential sub-borrowers would be
limited if they were required to assume the foreign exchange risk. Eventually, agreement was
reached to provide sub-borrowers with two options: (i) borrowing in local currency, assuming no
foreign exchange risk but paying a fee to GOE for taking such risk; or (ii) borrowing in foreign
currency, assuming the foreign exchange risk and paying an interest rate that was much lower in
nominal terms than under option (i). Following this agreement for amendments of the original terms,
the loan was declared effective in August 1987. In spite of these changes, the demand for Bank loan
funds continued to be limited because of cheaper funds available to EDBE from the Central Bank of
Egypt (in terns of subsidized loans for export development) and also external sources, and the
extreme sluggishness of investment due to high inflation and economic recession. Subsequently,
further changes in the terms and conditions were agreed with GOE and PBs in 1989 and 1992 to
bring them in line with market conditions. Meanwhile, the Bank also extended the Closing Date for
the loan twice from June 1992 to June 1994. In spite of these developments, the disbursements under
the loan remained low because the funds available from different sources to PBs proved to be in
excess of the demand for foreign currency funds by industrial enterprises. As a result, PBs were able
to use only US$46.84 million out of the original allocation of US$118 million to them. In the case of
the technical assistance component of the Project, there was marginal use of funds largely because
GOE did not revise the establishment law of EEPC to reorganize and allow management autonomy as
agreed during loan negotiations. Further the Export Assistance Fund which was originally planned to
be under EEPC, was not established when EEPC was dropped from the Project. As a result, out of
the TA component of US$6.7 million, only about US$0.22 million was used. In addition, about
US$0.35 million was used to refund the Project Preparation Advance and US$0.31 million to cover
the Front-End Fee on the Loan.
Project Sustainability
4.    The Project has contributed to the institutional development of EDBE and the promotion of
exports, though on a smaller scale than originally anticipated. EDBE has significantly developed its
project appraisal and supervision capability and is increasingly reaching a larger number of export-
oriented industries. The demand for financing by EDBE is now increasing significantly and EDBE is
trying to intensify its resource mobilization efforts. The quality of EDBE's portfolio has improved
since FY93 with the reduction in arrears as a percentage of outstanding loans. Its financial structure
has become sound with the debt/equity ratio in FY94 being about 7:1 (as against the agreed limit of
9:1). The financial position of EDBE is sound and this situation is expected to continue. In the case
of Banque Misr and MIDB, two other PBs under the Project, their financial position is also expected
to continue to be satisfactory.



Evaluation Summnary                                                                   v
Project Cost, Financing and Time Schedules
5.    Ln. 2459-EGT (US$125 million equivalent) was provided to GOE for channeling funds to
PBs for onlending to sub-borrowers, and also to finance directly TA for export development
organizations. PBs (EDBE, Banque Misr and MIDB) provided term loans to 30 export-oriented sub-
projects. Of them 28 were completed successfully within cost and schedule; and two have been
facing major problems, and efforts are being made to overcome them. There was no co-financing in
the Project. However, while the Project was under implementation, PBs were able to mobilize funds
from other sources at cheaper terms; this was partly responsible for the slow use of Bank funds.
Major Factors Affecting Achievement
6.    The main reasons for the slow utilization of loan funds and the project delay were: (i) the loan
was made at a time when the demand for loan funds in general was sluggish due to high inflation,
rising interest rates and the increasing risk of devaluation; (ii) the loan amount proved to be too large
especially when EDBE was able subsequently to mobilize funds from other external sources at more
favorable terms; (iii) the onlending terms and conditions proved to be too onerous and the customers
were not willing to assume the foreign exchange risk between the US$ and the Egyptian Pound (as the
risk of devaluation was high); (iv) review and revision of the onlending terms and conditions took too
much time; and, (v) with respect to the technical assistance program for EEPC and EAF (which was
to be established under EEPC), this component was cancelled as GOE did not carry out the
reorganization of EEPC as agreed.
Bank and Borrower Performance
7.    The Bank has played an important role in institution building with respect to EDBE as a
leading DFI to provide term financing to export-oriented enterprises largely in the private sector. The
Project designed by the Bank with the help of staff of PBs proved to be too ambitious. The
complexity of a DFI operation in a distorted financial market with multiple interest rates and multiple
exchange rates was underestimated.
8.    GOE, the Borrower, found it difficult to get the Project implemented by PBs in an
environment of distorted interest and exchange rate regimes. The much-needed policy reforms came
rather late in the project cycle. When the reforms were finally undertaken under SAL in early 1991,
things began to improve after the initial period of adjustment, and the pace of utilization of Bank
funds quickened. This was also facilitated by the third and final revision of the onlending terms and
conditions agreed in April 1992 between the Bank, GOE and PBs.
Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons
9.    The Project, even though substantially delayed, was able to help develop the operations of
EDBE following its establishment in the mid-1980s with technical assistance from the rlnk. This is
partly due to institutional development efforts under the Project and prudent bank regulations
introduced under the SAL in mid-1991. The application of these regulations to EDBE was supervised
under the Project. Further, considering risks associated with the financing of export-oriented
enterprises, it is significant that of the 30 sub-projects financed under the Project, only two



vi                                                                         Evaluation Summary
experienced major problems and the rest were implemented successfully. This was partly due to
rigorous criteria applied in the project selection for financing under the Bank loan.
10.    The demand for term loans from PBs is now on the rise and the PBs are intensifying their
efforts to mobilize resources. In this context, EDBE in particular is trying to secure long-term funds
while, at the same time, pursuing the option of restructuring and privatization. The Bank has
indicated that it would be prepared to consider future financing for EDBE under an apex loan once
EDBE plans for restructuring and privatization are underway.
11.    The main lessons learned from the Project are:
a.  In a country where there are widespread distortions in the interest and foreign exchange
regimes, DFI operations face serious problems.
b.  In a country facing high risks of devaluation, the demand for foreign currency loans by
private investors would be limited if they have to bear the foreign exchange risk. In that
environment, the investors could be provided with the option of purchasing foreign
exchange from DFI at the market exchange rate.
c.  The operation of an ongoing DFI should not be limited by too many restrictive
provisions and requirements under a Bank loan. However, it should be required to
follow prudent regulations under the supervision of the central bank.
d.  The success of a DFI operation depends on the success of the DFI in strengthening its
capability for project appraisal and supervision, and in intensifying its efforts to deal with
problem projects and also to collect arrears overdue.
e.  Critical issues which are likely to delay loan effectiveness should normally be resolved
before Board presentation of the project. Further, the Bank should not generally wait for
more than a year for the loan to become effective. If the Project Launch Mission
following loan approval finds persisting serious problems, the Bank should consider
cancelling the loan if it is not effective within a year.
f.  Careful consideration should be given to revising onlending terms of a Bank loan in a
timely manner if there are clear indications that the environment for the use of funds is
not improving and demand for term loans is sluggish.
g.  The Bank leverage on the overall DFI operations is only limited with respect to
onlending terms and conditions when funds are available from other sources on soft
terms. In this environment, Bank funds bearing tougher terms and conditions would be
utilized only when funds from other sources bearing softer terms are used up.
Moreover, it is not practical to achieve a positive onlending interest rate under a Bank
loan in a financial market which has widespread distortions.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2459-EGI)
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.    The disappointing performance of exports in the early 1980's caused national concern when
the level of manufactured exports in real terms was about 60 percent lower than in the mid-1970's.
Much of this decline was attributed to distortions in the exchange rate and trade policy regimes and
lack of actions to correct constraints to export growth. The major constraints to export growth were:
(i) the bias against exports arising from the complex protection regime; (ii) complex and time-
consuming export and import control procedures; (iii) ineffective institutions to promote exports; (iv)
lack of easy access to export finance; (v) inadequate technical and marketing capability especially in
public enterprises, to compete in world markets; and (vi) infrastructure deficiencies especially with
respect to telecommunications, storage, packaging, and transport. There was an increasing awareness
in the country that policy and institutional reforms and other supportive measures were needed to
foster growth of manufactured exports. A high level Cabinet Committee on Export Development was
established to coordinate policy decisions on export issues and also simplify export/import procedures.
Meanwhile, a new Export Development Bank (which was later re-named as the Export Development
Bank of Egypt, EDBE) was established in 1983 with technical assistance from the World Bank to
promote and finance exporters while, at the same time, plans were under consideration for
reorganizing and strengthening the Egyptian Export Promotion Center (EEPC) with wider functions
through a new government decree. At this stage, the Bank felt that the Government was seriously
committed to export development and, to stimulate national exports, there was an urgent need for an
investment program for developing efficient export-oriented industries. The Export Industries
Development Project (Ln.2459-EGT) aimed at assisting the Government of Egypt (GOE) to start
implementing high priority policy and institutional reforms and also to expand productive capacity in
promising export-oriented enterprises. The reforms, which were initiated under this Project, were
later accelerated under the Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) to Egypt in early 1991.
2.    In most successful exporting countries, financial institutions play a key role in fostering
exports by providing a range of financial facilities and services that enable exporters to compete in
international markets. However, until EDBE was established in 1983, there was lack of institutional
finance for promoting export-oriented enterprises. Even though there were a large number of
financial institutions, only a few of them (four commercial banks) were providing short-term export
finance. Medium and long-term export finance was available in limited amount only from the
Industrial Development Bank of Egypt and a few joint venture investment banks.
3.     EDBE was established as an Egyptian joint stock company under Law 95 by a Presidential
Decree of July 30, 1983 with an authorized capital of LE 100 million (of which LE 69 million is
paid up so far), with the participation of five public sector banks -- the National Investment Bank, the
National Bank of Egypt, Banque Misr, Banque du Caire and the Bank of Alexandria. It has a major
responsibility for export promotion and, in this context, it is authorized to extend short, medium and



2                                                           Implementation Completion Report
long-term loans in local and foreign currencies to export-oriented enterprises for investment and
working capital, extend guarantees on their behalf, and refinance loans extended to such enterprises
by other banks. It can also: (i) finance import requirements of exporters; (ii) issue loan guarantees to
foreign banks and guarantees to importers; (iii) operate a scheme for insuring Egyptian exporters
against commercial and non-commercial risks at both the pre- and post-shipment stages. In this
context, EDBE is authorized to accept savings deposits, and issue bonds and certificates of deposits.
In addition, it is empowered to carry out non-banking activities for the promotion of Egyptian
exports, such as undertaking market studies of foreign markets for Egyptian products, dissemination
of the findings such studies among Egyptian exporters, and setting up an information center for
provision of statistics to prospective exporters. The Bank had played an important role in developing
the legal framework and establishing EDBE as a specialized bank for promoting exports.
B. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
4.    The Export Industries Development Project (Ln.2459-EGT) was designed to support a
govermnent program of policy and institutional reform and promotion of manufactured exports. In
this context, the Project was to focus on: (i) financing efficient export-oriented investments in the
public and private sector through several participating banks (PBs); (ii) strengthening EDBE which
was newly-established at that time, so that it can function as an apex organization for the Loan, and
also provide export credit guarantees and insurance needed by exporters; (iii) assisting the
restructuring and expansion of the Egyptian Export Promotion Agency (EEPC); (iv) financing
technical assistance to improve the efficiency and marketing capabilities of exporters; and (v)
financing specific studies of export policy and procedures as part of an agreed action program to
further improve the policy and institutional environment for exports. As the first project in a complex
area, the Project faced obvious risks relating to the pace of policy reform, the effectiveness of the
institutions involved, and the unstable economic environment due to the rising inflation and interest
rates, and the worsening investment climate. As a result, the objectives of the Project were not fully
realized and only US$47.72 million (38 percent) of the total loan of US$125 million was finally used.
The Project experienced a delay of about three and a half years.
5.    Looking back, it appears that: (i) a substantial loan was made at a time when the demand for
term loans in general was sluggish because of increasing inflation and interest rates, and the resulting
recession in the mid-1980s; and (ii) ternis and conditions for onlending the Bank funds proved too
onerous under the distorted market conditions in Egypt. There was very limited demand for foreign
currency loans bearing fixed rates (which were to be not less than 14 percent as stipulated in the Loan
Agreement) at a time when the exchange rate was distorted and the risk of devaluation was high.
Because of the above problems, the Bank and GOE wanted the sub-borrowers to bear the risk
between the US$ and the Egyptian Pound and EDBE and PBs wanted GOE to assume this risk for a
fee, but GOE was reluctant to do so. Because of the above problems, EDBE, PBs and GOE needed
time to review market conditions, availability of funds from other sources, and the terms and
conditions for onlending (to make subloans more attractive to prospective sub-borrowers). This
review took a long time and, as a result, the loan became effective only after about three years,
following the revision of restrictive terms and conditions and the pull-out by one PB, i.e. IDBE. At
this point, EDBE decided to serve as a PB rather than an apex body for the loan. Even after these
revisions, the use of the Bank funds proceeded slowly because the onlending terms and conditions
were still not attractive under distorted market conditions. Consequently, the terms and conditions
were revised twice more, in 1989 and 1992. Only after the April 16, 1992 revisions which followed



Implementation Completion Report                                                          3
the improvement in the economic environment in Egypt following reforms initiated early 1991 under
the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), the demand for subloans under the Project began to pick up.
As a result of the above-mentioned problems, of the total loan of US$125 million, only US$47.72
million (38 percent) was utilized and the remaining US$77.28 million was cancelled over time.
However, one outstanding achievement under the Project was the development and expansion of
EDBE as a leading and efficient institution providing finance to export-oriented enterprises.
C. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic and Sector Policies
6.     Commercial banks generally follow conservative, time-consuming and rigid practices to
financing exports. They do not finance exporters on the basis of their capability, and against firm
orders or contracts of sale without the backing of confirmed Letters of Credit (L/Cs). In 1983, the
Central Bank of Egypt (EGT) fixed the interest rate on export loans between 10-13 percent (while the
discount rate was 13 percent). Commercial banks were charging at that time about 16 percent on
investment loans. In this context, they were not enthusiastic about lending to the export sector where
the interest rate was controlled and where the risks were higher. Exporters, particularly those in the
private sector, faced difficulties in obtaining adequate financing for working capital needs and for
offering deferred credit to buyers abroad on competitive terms.
7.     The Export Development Report of the Bank in the early 1980s reviewed the banking sector
performance in financing exports and recommended: (i) the introduction of standardized pre-shipment
and post-shipment financing schemes to ensure that exporters had adequate finance at a reasonable
cost; (ii) the introduction of an export credit guarantee scheme to share the credit risk between the
commercial banks and an organization to provide such guarantees; (iii) refinancing of export loans
made by commercial banks in cases banks had temporary resource constraints; and (iv) establishment
of a specialized financial institution to provide guarantees and refinancing facilities. Following this
report, GOE established the Export Development Bank of Egypt (EDBE) to implement the guarantee
and refinance schemes. The Project provided for a comprehensive program of technical assistance to
help develop EDBE to implement those schemes. In addition, as noted, IDBE was originally
envisaged to serve as apex organization for channeling Bank funds through selected financial
intermediaries.
8.     At the time the Loan was approved in 1984, CBE regulated interest rates on loans in local
currency for all financial transactions. Interest rate on foreign exchange loans were not regulated by
CBE, allowing it to reflect the cost of those resources. The banks were charging on loans (mostly
short-term) floating interest rates tied to six-month LIBOR plus a spread of 1-2 percent. As for the
regulated foreign exchange rate system, it was one of the most important sources of bias against
exports. There were three different exchange rates operating in Egypt: (i) the official rate, which
applied to the CBE pool of receipts from the Suez Canal, petroleum and some agricultural exports
(i.e., cotton and rice), was set LE 0.70 per US$; (ii) the commercial bank rate which was set at LE
0.84 per US$, was applicable to cash remittances from Egyptians working abroad, and also to tourism
receipts; and (iii) the "free" market rate (which fluctuated between LE 1.1-1.25 per US$ in 1984) was
applicable to foreign investment transactions by Law 43/1973 companies, and non-oil merchandise
exports.



4                                                          Implementation Completion Report
9.    The bias against exports arising from the complex protection regime made domestic sales of
non-controlled products generally much more profitable than exports. Moreover, price controls,
subsidies and tariffs combined to provide varying levels of effective protection to products, thus
preventing efficient investment allocation. Further, complex and time-consuming export and import
control procedures were deterrents to export growth.
10.   For Egypt to achieve significant increases in exports required to successfully bring about the
structural transformation of its economy, actions were needed on the following fronts: (i) reforrn of
the exchange rate and protection regimes; (ii) removal of various procedural constraints; (iii)
strengthening of the institutional framework for administering export incentives and for carrying out
promotional activities; (iv) improving access to export finance; and (v) ameliorating deficiencies in
infrastructure and other facilities needed for acceleration of exports (e.g. telecommnunications, storage,
packaging, transportation, skilled labor availability, etc.). While the Project addressed mainly the
constraints under (iii) and (iv), efforts were made to deal with (i) and (ii) under the Bank's Structural
Adjustment Loan made in early 1991. The country is also trying to deal with constraints under (v)
but it is going take time to overcome the infrastructure deficiencies.
Physical Objectives and Attainment in the Sub-Projects
11.   Of the US$118 million allocated to EDBE and four PBs (of which IDBE, NBD and MIDB
pulled out during 1987-92 as they found it difficult to market the loan funds, and only Banque Misr
remained). PBs were able to use only US$46.84 million for reasons already explained in (para 3).
EDBE provided Bank funds to 25 sub-projects, of which 21 were highly successful, two were
successful, and the remaining two experienced major problems and are trying to solve them. In the
financing of one of these problem sub-projects (TECNOPACK), MIDB was a co-financier. MIDB
was not able to finance any other sub-project. In the case of Banque Misr, it was able to finance five
sub-projects under the loan, of which all were highly successful. In the case of both IDBE and NBD,
there was no financing of sub-projects under the Bank loan. (AS noted, IDBE pulled out of the
Project in 1987 and NBD did so in 1991, followed by MIDB in 1992). Overall, EDBE and Banque
Misr financed 30 sub-projects of which 86 percent were highly successful, 7 percent successful and
remaining 7 percent faced major problems.
12.   Under the second component of the project, EEPC used initially US$ 0.22 million out of
US$3.2 million for technical assistance and training to reform and restructure its activities. However,
as agreed, GOE did not pass a Presidential Decree for reorganizing and strengthening EEPC.
Without this decree to ensure management autonomy, it was not possible for EEPC to serve as a top-
level agency to provide leadership, policy guidance and overall coordination to the national export
development effort. Therefore, the Bank suspended disbursement to EEPC. The initial amount of
US$0.22 million was used to finance consulting services from the International Trade Center (ITC)
for preparing a work program for EEPC along with detailed recommendations regarding EEPC
reorganization and staffing.
13.   As for the third component of the Project which pertained to the establishment of an Exporter
Assistance Fund to induce existing and potential exporters to make technical assistance and related
developmental expenditure that would expand markets for manufactured exports and their capability to
serve them, there was no disbursement from the US$3 million allocated because of lack of action on
the part of EEPC and GOE. Staff support for the Fund was to be provided initially by EEPC and the
Fund was to be managed by a Managing Committee consisting of the Executive Director of EEPC,



Implementation Completion Report                                                          S
the Chairman of EDBE, representatives appointed by the Board of EEPC and representatives from the
participating banks. As the Government did not pass the Presidential Decree to reorganize EEPC and
assume expanded role for the development of exports including its active participation in the
development of EAF, the Fund was not created. As a result, US$3 million allocated for technical
assistance and training for the creation and operation of the Fund was cancelled.
14.   The Project was restructured in December 1987 by: (i) reducing the foreign exchange risk
premium being charged by GOE; (ii) enlarging the scope of assistance that could be provided through
the sub-loans; (iii) providing assistance to private as well as public enterprises (PEs) that had the
potential for improving their operations; (iv) enlarging the number of beneficiaries under each loan
category; and (v) revising some other termns and conditions of sub-loans. Originally, the sub-loans
were to finance fixed investments in either new, expansion, modernization or rehabilitation projects.
In addition to these, sub-loans were allowed for maintenance improvement, engineering and technical
assistance (e.g. to prepare restructuring plans and related action programs), and permanent working
capital. PBs were also allowed to relend Bank funds to other financial institutions approved by the
Bank whose clients were in need of foreign currency term financing.
Financial Objectives
15.   one of the main objectives was to finance export-oriented enterprises. EDBE was able to
finance 30 sub-projects of which 28 were successful showing economic rates of return ranging from
12-45 percent. Another objective was to develop EDBE with a sound financial position with
particular reference to the financial structure which was not to exceed the debt/equity ratio of 9:1.
EDBE has been following this covenant in maintaining a satisfactory financial structure. Its
debt/equity ratio was approximately 7:1 in FY94, well within the agreed level.
Social Objectives
16.   The Project gave special attention to the development of export-oriented enterprises which
were finding it difficult to get medium and long-term credit for investment and working capital
financing. The Project helped create about 4,000 jobs in the beneficiary enterprises. It also helped
many enterprises to upgrade export capability and diversify products and markets while, at the same
time, helping to fill serious gaps in the availability of institutional export finance.
Environment
17.   EDBE and Banque Misr have been paying attention to pollution control during appraisal and
supervision of sub-projects financed under the Project. Their loan beneficiaries are required to follow
local regulations for air and water pollution.
Institutional Development
18.   As noted, the Bank has been associated with EDBE right from the beginning. The Bank
played a key role in the development of the legal and organizational framework for EDBE by
providing technical assistance and EDBE was subsequently established in July 1983. Following this,
the Bank decided to make available funds to EDBE to help nurture its growth through technical and
financial assistance. It was initially envisaged to serve as an apex organization to channel Bank funds
through participant banks (PBs) to export-oriented enterprises. When PBs found it difficult to market



6                                                         Implementation Completion Report
loans under the recessionary market conditions, EDBE decided to act as a PB rather than an apex
agency when one PB (IDBE) pulled out in 1987 before the loan became effective. The development
of EDBE on sound lines with capable staff has been one of the major achievements of the Project in
spite of the fact that EDBE is a joint stock company owned mostly by four public sector banks. It is
well managed and is allowed to function as a semi-autonomous entity, offering competitive salaries
and attractive bonus payments to employees.
19.   While EDBE was able to disburse US$35.54 million following reallocation (its initial
allocation in 1987 was US$29.5 million), Banque Misr and MIDB were able to use only $6.3 million
and US$5 million, respectively, out of the original allocation of US$29.5 million to each of them.
One of the reasons why EDBE was comparatively more successful in lending was due to the fact that
it used lower-priced funds from non-Bank sources as a lever to push higher-priced Bank funds to
clients.
Onlending Terms
20.   Onlending terms were first revised prior to loan effectiveness by agreement dated May 6,
.1987 to allow lending in either foreign currency or local currency, the latter to include a 9 percentage
point spread to cover a foreign exchange risk fee to GOE. In either case, the spread to the PBs
remained at 3 percentage points. The onlending terms were revised again with the exchange of letters
dated June 17, 1989 and July 17, 1989, as part of the loan restructuring. Changes comprised, inter
alia, revision of foreign exchange risk and interest rate fluctuation fee from 9 to 6.3 percentage
points. A further revision became necessary when the domestic interest rate on term lending
increased in early 1991 from 17% to 22%.
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
21.   The original plan envisaged the implementation of the Project over five years (1985-89),
assuming the loan would become effective in mid-1984 soon after the Board approval of the loan.
However, the loan did not become effective until August 1987, i.e. more than three years following
the Board approval. Further, it took nearly seven years to complete the Project (in September 1994)
from the date the loan actually became effective. The disbursement under the line of credit
component remained slow for three years as enterprises were reluctant to borrow in foreign exchange
when the interest rates were high and the currency, being overvalued, faced the risk of devaluation.
One participating bank-- Industrial Development Bank of Egypt (IDBE) withdrew early on before the
loan became effective in 1987 as it found it difficult to market the Bank funds on terms and conditions
specified in the loan agreement, and it also found that it had more foreign exchange resources than it
could handle. (IDBE was a major beneficiary under the Small and Medium Scale Project, Ln. 2458-
EGT, which was approved simultaneously with the Export Industries Development Project). Faced
with this situation, EDBE, which was originally proposed to be the channel for onlending to PBs,
decided to become a PB along with Banque Misr, NDB and MIDB. Subsequently, when NBD and
MIDB withdrew from the Project, EDBE and Banque Misr were the only PBs left which continued
until the end of the Project.
22.   As for the technical assistance (TA) component which was to benefit the Egyptian Export
Promotion Center (EEPC) and EDBE, and was to help establish Exporter Assistance Fund (EAF),
only limited objectives were achieved as EEPC and EAF were dropped subsequently from the Project



Implementation Completion Report                                                         7
as the Bank recommendations on organization and management of those entities were not followed.
Under the TA component, EDBE was the only beneficiary. They were able to train about 620
persons, including 550 locally and the remaining 70 abroad. This contributed significantly to
institution building at EDBE.
Currency of Lending and On-Lending Rates
23.    The SAR did not adequately address the difficulties inherent in attempting to successfully
price and market Bank funds in the distorted financial monetary environment in Egypt at the time of
the Bank loan. PBs were to onlend only in foreign currency (FC) terms, with the sub-borrowers
bearing the foreign exchange risk between the US$ and the Egyptian Pound and making debt service
on their subloans at the highest exchange rate between the Egyptian Pound and the US$ as fixed by
the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) at the time of repayment. At a time when the inflation was on the
rise and the risk of devaluation of the Egyptian Pound was high, there was not much demand for FC
loans at fixed rates. To reflect the real cost of capital, the onlending rate on FC loans was stipulated
in the Loan documents that it would not be less than 14 percent (including 1.25 percentage spread for
the Government for bearing the interest rate and foreign exchange risks between US$ and the pool
currencies of disbursement). The onlending rate of 14 percent for foreign currency loans fixed during
negotiations was based on an estimate of the cost of capital. At the time of appraisal, the foreign
currency (FC) rates for commercial funds in Egypt were set by market forces and were generally at a
par with Eurocurrency rates, while interest rates were established for all local currency (LC) lending
operations by CBE. The LC lending rate to industry was about 13 percent in 1984, at the time the
Bank loan was approved. SMIs preferred to borrow in local currency at 13 percent to purchase
foreign exchange from the free market rather than borrow in FC at a fixed rate of 14 percent. There
were strong indications that the demand from customers was virtually non-existent for loans in FC.
Therefore, PBs felt that the onlending terms and conditions for the Bank loan needed to be revised.
They also wanted to revise the limits on individual loans to enterprises, taking into consideration the
inflationary situation.
24.    The discussions on revising the onlending terms and conditions proceeded over three years
before they were revised on August 18, 1987 when the loan became effective. According to the
revised loan agreement, PBs were given the option of either lending in LC terms or FC terms. For
loans in FC terms, the interest rate was to be 13.5 percent and for loans in LC terms, the rate was to
include a premium of 9 percentage points for the GOE to bear all the interest rate and foreign
exchange risks. This premium resulted in an onlending rate of 20.25 percent in 1987. At this high
rate, it was soon found that the demand for LC loans was limited. Therefore, the Bank agreed with
PBs and GOE to reduce the spread for the Government from 9 percent to 6.35 percent on LC
denominated loans. At that time, it was also agreed that the exchange rate to be used in obtaining
value of LE denominated subloans would be based on the rate of exchange for the dollar in terms of
LE fixed by CBE for the purpose of effecting foreign currency transactions, on the respective dates of
sub-loan disbursements (instead of the respective dates of loan commitment as was agreed in May
1986). The June 1989 amendments also allowed IDBE to make loans for permanent working capital
(up to US$300,000 per enterprise) to supplement the loans for capital investment.
25.    As the use of Bank funds was still slow after the amendment of terms in 1989, the Bank felt
that there was need for further revision of onlending rates and the Bank made an agreement on this
issue with GOE and PBs a condition for extending the terminal date for loan commitment beyond
December 31, 1989. However, there was no agreement on further revision of the onlending terms



8                                                           Implementation Completion Report
until April 6, 1992. Under the revisions, it was agreed that the onlending interest rate on LC
denominated loans shall be equal to or higher than a minimum interest rate determined on a fixed or
variable basis, based on the following approach: (i) for subloans approved on the basis of fixed
interest rate, the minimum interest rate shall be two percentage points below the discount rate of CBE
on the date of the sub-loan agreement; (ii) with respect to variable interest loans, the minimum
variable interest rate shall initially be three percentage points below the discount rate of CBE on the
date of the sub-loan agreement; and the variable rate would be adjusted semi-annually, keeping it
three percentage points less than the average of the discount rate for the four weeks preceding such
adjustment. However, no such semi-annual adjustment was to exceed 1 1/2 percentage points
increase over the preceding interest rate and, over the life of the loan, the interest rate not to exceed 6
percentage points over the initial interest rate charged. After this amendment, the disbursement of
Bank funds picked up for about nine months until the end of 1992, the terminal date for commitments
of the Bank loan.
E. Project Sustainability
26.   As noted, of 30 sub-projects financed under the Loan, 28 were implemented successfully and
two faced major problems. No problem is foreseen in sustaining the benefits of the successfully
implemented sub-projects. With respect to the two problem sub-projects, one (Egyptian Cruise Lines)
is facing problem because of the decline in business of cruise ships in general in the country because
of fear of the spread of activities by fundamentalists. The environment for cruise ship business is
expected to improve in the future as the threat of fundamentalism subsides. As for the other problem
sub-project (of Modern Packaging Products Co.), it is facing technical problems which are expected
to be resolved by the end of this year. Further, the benefit from the successful development of EDBE
is expected to be sustained in the future because of good management of the institution and its
proposed plans for allowing private participation. Moreover, the economic liberalization policies
adopted by the Government aim at reinstating the private sector in all areas of activity including
industrial production, distribution, finance and foreign trade. The liberalization measures introduced
so far include new investment laws and changes in trade and exchange control regulations; reform of
the tariff structure; and minimization of bureaucratic controls. Benefits from these measures are
expe, ed to continue.
F. Bank Performance
27.   The Bank has played an important role in institution building with respect to EDBE as a
leading development bank to provide term financing to the private sector, focusing on the
development of export-oriented industries. The Bank has helped EDBE in particular under the Project
to: (i) improve internal policies and procedures; (ii) strengthen operational and financial planning
systems; (iii) develop and implement a modern management information system; (iv) improve its
project appraisal and supervision capability; and, (v) enhance the financial position through prudent
financial leverage.
28.   The Project designed by the Bank with the help of EDBE staff proved to be too ambitious.
The Bank underestimated the complexity of DFI operations in a distorted financial market with
multiple fixed interest rates and multiple exchange rates. The terms and conditions stipulated in the
agreements for onlending Bank funds to clients proved too onerous especially when the demand for
foreign exchange loans declined owing to high risks associated with rising inflation, higher interest



Implementation Completion Report                                                         9
rates, and devaluation. It took more than three years for making the loan effective for lack of
agreement on revising the onlending terms and conditions. This period could have been shortened by
the Bank by forming a joint team of the Bank,EDBE and Banque Misr to work out details of the
revisions needed. The Bank could have provided EDBE more flexibility in determining the onlending
rates and conditions, taking into account the actual market conditions in Egypt.
G. Borrower Perfornance
29.   GOE, the Borrower, found it difficult to get the Project implemented by EDBE because of the
distorted interest and exchange rate regimes. The much-needed policy reforms came rather late in the
project cycle. Following the reforms under SAL in early 1991, things began to improve and the pace
of utilization of Bank funds quickened somewhat. Further, as GOE was able to secure funds for
EDBE on soft terms from the Central Bank of Egypt, the African Development Bank (ADB), the
European Investment Bank (EIB) and German KfW, during 1985-91, the use of Bank funds was
affected. It was the success of GOE in mobilizing significant funds from other foreign sources at soft
terms that dampened the use of Bank funds which carried harder terms and conditions. PBs were
slow in suggesting changes in the onlending terms and conditions, when there were clear indications
that the demand for foreign currency denominated loans would be very low in the distorted financial
and foreign exchange markets in Egypt. EDBE should have been more forthcoming in suggesting
revisions for the onlending terms and conditions. PBs were, however, successful in improving their
financial position by reducing arrears and also improving their financial structure, partly because of
increased equity contribution by shareholders.
H. Assessment of Outcome
30.   The performance indicators for Ln. 2459-EGT were: (i) the utilization of funds; (ii) schedule
for loan utilization; (iii) the number of sub-projects financed in the export sector; (iv) the number of
sub-projects which were successful; (v) the number of projects which proved to be problem projects;
and, (vi) effectiveness of the technical assistance program for EDBE. As noted, only about 38
percent of the loan amount was used. The Project was delayed by about three and a half years
(including about three years taken for loan effectiveness). Thirty sub-projects in the export sector
were beneficiaries of the loan. Of these, about 26 sub-projects were highly successful with the
economic rate of return (ERR) ranging from 25-50 percent; and two sub-projects were successful with
the ERR between 12-24 percent. Two sub-projects faced technical, managerial, financial and/or
marketing problems and are making efforts to overcome them.
31.   The Project, even though substantially delayed, was able to help develop EDBE on sound
lines. This is largely due to the Bank's technical, assistance and prudent regulations introduced under
SAL in early 1991 with respect to provisioning and reserves in addition to the debt/equity limit of 9:1
stipulated under the Ln. 2459-EGT. Further, under this Project, the systems of project appraisal and
supervision, management information, and internal controls were improved Thus, the Project had a
significant impact on institution building. Further, considering the risk of financing export-oriented
enterprises, it is significant that about 93 percent of the sub-projects under the loan proved successful
with an ERR of over 12 percent. Considering these factors, the overall project outcome is rated
partially satisfactory in spite of major delays in implementation and use of funds. Further, it has to
be noted that while PBs were slow in utilizing the Bank loan, they were able to make better use of



10                                                         Implementation Completion Report
funds from other foreign sources on terms and conditions which were more favorable to potential
borrowers.
I. Futiu e Operations
32.   The Bank Group has played an ongoing role since 1983 in the development of EDBE.
Today, EDBE is a sound financial intermedirry meeting a substantial part of the requirements of the
export sector for term financing. Under the Project, EDBE has received assistance for institutional
improvement, enabling it to perform better in its current as well as future operations. Further,
Banque Misr, another PB, continues to be a leading commercial bank in Egypt. Further, MIDB has
made its operation profitable. The three PBs as well as the 28 sub-projects which were successfully
implemented under the Project are expected to show satisfactory performance in the future. As for
two sub-projects which are problem projects, they are trying to overcome problems by the end of this
year. EDBE is in need of long-term funds for enlarging its operation as the export sector is now
expanding under the economic liberalization program adopted by the Government. However, the
Bank is not considering further lending to EDBE so long as it remains a fully Government-owned
entity. The Bank has indicated that it would be willing to consider providing funds under an apex
loan in the future if EDBE is restructured by allowing equity participation by private investors,
enabling it to function as an independent entity. This would help EDBE reduce its dependence on the
Government and multilateral/bilateral donors and explore raising resources by issuing stocks and
bonds. Currently, EDBE is considering the privatization option and any future Bank financing
depends on the Government making progress in exercising this option. Meanwhile, EDBE is also
considering the option of raising funds by issuing bonds.
J. Key Lessons Learned
33.   Setting a competitive price for Bank funds for onlending by PBs proved to be more difficult
than expected as a result of: (i) the multiple currency make-up of the Bank's pool of foreign funds;
(ii) the volatility of the foreign exchange markets; and, (iii) the CBE's administered multiple foreign
exchange rate and fixed interest rate regimes and the resulting complex problems that needed to be
resolved when converting loan funds to or from local currency. The Project attested to difficulties
DFI operations face in setting the right onlending terms in: (i) a tightly controlled financial market
that operated with multiple fixed exchange rates and administered interest rates; or (ii) attempts to use
the Bank funds on terms different from those of other foreign exchange operations based on the use of
either a single currency or conducted in local currency.
34.   The experience under this Project also shows that:
a.  In a country where there are widespread distortions in the interest and foreign exchange
rate regimes, DFI operations face serious problems. Those distortions cannot be
alleviated or overcome unless there are comprehensive economic reforms. Therefore, it
is advisable not to resort to DFI operations in countries where there are widespread
distortions in financial markets. If DFI operations are undertaken in anticipation of
overall reforms under SALs, financial intermediaries need to be allowed the flexibility to
make competitively priced loans under the existing market conditions, following certain
agreed guidelines but without excessive conditionalities.



Implementation Completion Report                                                            11
b.  In the absence of prudent banking regulations, PBs largely follow less than optimal
practices, hindering institution building r'aals. The Bank should give careful attention
for adopting prudent financial practices by PBs, e.g., provisioning and building up
reserves, writing off overdue arrears, having limitation on financial leverage, etc. in
order to develop a satisfactory financial position.
c.  The success of operation depends to a significant extent on the financial intermediary
strengthening its capability for project appraisal, supervision, and follow-up with
adequate provision for training. The Bank needs to ensure that the appraisal and
supervision work of PBs conforms to Bank standards.
d.  Concerted attention needs to be given for including representatives of PBs in the
appraisal and supervision of projects. This participatory approach could help provide
on-the-job training to selected staff of the PBs.
e.  Efforts have to be made by PBs to reduce the turnover of trained personnel by offering
them competitive remuneration and career development prospects. PBs should also have
the flexibility to reduce the number of redundant employees. The govermnent needs to
enable them to adopt such practices by allowing them to operate as autonomous entities.
f.  Critical issues which are likely to delay loan effectiveness should normally be resolved
before Board presentation of the project. Further, the Bank should not generally wait for
more than a year for the loan to become effective. If the Project Launch Mission
following loan approval finds persisting serious problems, the Bank should consider
cancelling the loan if it is not effective within a year.
g.  The Bank leverage on the overall operation of PBs is only limited with respect to
onlending terms and conditions when funds are available from other sources on soft
terms. In this environment, Bank funds bearing tougher terns and conditions would not
be utilized until funds from other sources bearing softer terms are used up. In such a
situation, the Bank should allow PBs more flexibility in determining the onlending rates
to individual sub-projects.



12                                                      Implementation Completion Report



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRY DEVELOPMET BANK
LOAN 2458-EGT
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan Disbursement
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Table 8: Projects and Bank Financing
Table 9: Financial Statements of EDBE, Banque Misr and MIDB
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staffweeks
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions






Implementation Completion Report                                                                                              15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Not
A. Achievement of obiectives       Substantial    Partial     Negligible    Applicable
Macroeconomic                             /
policies
Sector policies                           /
Financial objectives                      /
Institutional               /
development
Physical objectives                       /
Poverty reduction                                                    /
Gender concerns                                                      ,
Other social objectives                                               /
Environmental                             /
objectives
Public sector
management
Private sector              /
development
Other
Not
Substantial    Partial     Ne2ligible    Applicable
B. Proiect sustainabilitv              /
Hixhl
C. Bank performance            satisfactory     Satisfactoa       Deficient
Identification                            /
Preparation                                                /
Appraisal                                                  /
Supervision                               /
Hi2hlv
D. Borrower performance        satisfactory     Satisfactorv      Deficient
Preparation                                                /
Implementation                                             /
Covenant                                  /
compliance
Operation                                 /
Hiahly                                                     HiLhIv
satisfactory       Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory      unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of outcome                                /



16                                                                            Implementation Completion Report
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Title                                  Purpose          |       Year of Approval      |           Status
None                                                                                  J                            J
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                             Date Planned                            Date Actual
Identification                                                                               09/83
Preparation                                                                             11/02/83 - 12/04/84
Appraisal                                                                              01/26/84 - 02/15/84
Negotiations                                                                                05/15/84
Board Presentation                                                                          06/28/84
Signing                                                                                     04/04/86
Effectiveness                                                                               08/19/87
Project Completion                                   12/31/91                               05/31/94
Loan Closing                                         06/30/92                               06/30/94



Implementation Comnpletion Report                                                                                     17
Table 4: Loan Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS million)
|   June       June 1986 1 June 1987   June 1988    J June 1989   June 1990 | June 1991    June 1992   June 1993   June 1994 | Sept 1994
Appraisal                    5.00       25.00        61.00        96.00       114.00       125.00       125.00       125.00       125.00       125.00      125.00
Estimate                                                                                                                                                           i
Actual                      -            -           -             1.50         8.75        15.31        17.90        25.23       29.23        44.93       47.72
Actual as % of                                                     1.60         7.7         12.2         14.3         20.2         23.6        35.9        38.2
Estimate                                                                                                                                                           l
Date of Final                                                                      September 16, 1994
Disbursement
Note: Loan amount of USS72.73 million was cancelled on April 30, 1991 and US$4.55 million was cancelled subsequendy.



18                                                                              Implementation Completion Report
Table S:. Key Indletom hr Project Implemeoation
Esdmited                     Actual
Loan effectiveness                                              08/31/84                    08/19187
Start receiving proposals                                       11/01/84                    10/25/87
for sub-projects
Terminal date for sub-loan                                      06/30/91                    12/31/92
commitmnents
Overall project implementation                                     84                         108
period (months)
Loan closing                                                    06/30/92                    06/30/94



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                          19
Table 6: Key lndicaten.for Projed Operation
F'-Imated                                 Actual
Capacity utilization for subprojects at                   70                                      60-80
completion (%)                                         .         ._     ..



20                                                                               Implementation Completion Report
Table 7: Studies Included In Project
Purpose as Derfied at
Study                                    AppralsalJRedermed                             Status               Impact of Study
Import/Export            Examine ways and means of simplification of        No( carried out as the EEPC
Procedures, Incentives   import/export procedures and enable                component of the Project
Egyptian Export Promotion Council (EEPC)          was dropped for lack of
to prepare and implement an action program.       agreement on institutional
organization and management
Duty Drawback            For improved operation of the import duty                      - Ditto -
Scheine                  drawback scheme under the action program
activities to be undertaken by EEPC.
Protection System        Review the protection system and                               - Ditto -
recommend measures for rationalizing it
under the action program to be carried out
by EEPC
Investment Study         Product level studies of investment                            - Ditto -
opportunities in potential export-oriented
industries under the auspices of the EEPC.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                      21
Table 8: Projects and Bank Financing
(.000 LE)
Sub-Loans by EDBE
Total Cost of     Loan
Sub-Projects    Amount                     Remarks
Pyramid Paper Mills                      942.0         598.0 Completed within cost and schedule.
Highly successful.
Misr America Carpet Mills
Subproject I                          4,015.0       1,832.0             Highly successful.
Subproject 11                         9,803.0       5,886.0             Highly successful.
Subproject III                       29,870.0       4,257.0             Highly successful.
Rotopack Misr Ptg. & Pkg.
Subproject I                          3,900.0        1,713.0            Highly successful.
Subproject II                        15,692.0       7,027.0             Highly successful.
El Sharouk Press Co.
Subproject I                          6,000.0        1,247.0            Highly successful.
Subproject II                         6,967.0         591.0             Highly successful.
Cairo Precision Ind.                  28,210.0        7,748.0            Highly successful.
Al Alamein Offset Press                7,404.0        2,513.0            Highly successful.
Gersey Co. Food Ind.                  58,736.0       19,274.0            Highly successful.
Oriental Weavers Fibers Co.
Subproject 1                          6,554.0       3,778.0             Highly successful.
Subproject II                        15,911.0       7,107.0             Highly successful.
El Shawi Co. for Textiles              7,545.0         783.0             Highly successful.
Marakem Textiles Ind.                  7,468.0        2,660.0            Highly successful.
Cairo Food Ind. Co.                   23,150.0        3,465.0            Highly successful.
Oriental Weavers Fibers Co.
Subproject 1                         15,911.0       7,107.0             Highly successful.
Subproject II                         6,554.0       3,778.0             Highly successful.
Egyptian Fibers Co.
Subproject 1                          6,200.0       2,600.0             Highly successful.
Subproject n                         11,388.0       4,882.0             Highly successful.
Misr Co. For Spinning & Weaving
Subproject I                        910,228.0      15,226.0             Highly successful.
Subproject 11                       919,419.0        1,152.0 6-month delay; successful project.
Nancel for Fashions                      992.0         385.0 8-month delay; successful project.
Egyptian Cruise Lines                 13,476.0        1,753.0 Completed but faces market problems.
Technopack                            70,606.0       12,590.0 Completed but faces technical problems.
Expected to break even this year.
Sub-Loans by Banque Misr
Ibrahim Nadim                                         1,521.6 New private project; highly successful.
Misr Plastic Co.                                      1,531.0            Highly successful.
Nadie William Furniture Co.                            300.0             Highly successful.
Kiriazi I                                              814.0 To expand refrigerator production by
private company. Highly successful.
Kiriazi II                                            2,133.3 To produce washing machines.
Highly successful.
Sub-Loan by MIDB
Technopack                            70,606.0       15,000.0 Co-financed with Banque Misr. Completed
but faces technical problems. Expected to
break even this year.



22                                                                         Inmplementation Completion Report
Table 9: Export Development Bank Of Egypt (EDBE)
Financial Statements
(LE million)
Year ended June 30         F       I  F           FY92   |  FY93        FY94
(unaudited)
A. BALANCE SHEET
ASSETS
Cash & Due from Banks         307.6      380.4      241.0      224.0       125.3
Securities                      5.7       16.9       81.1      145.4      232.5
Loans                         427.2      596.7      683.3      838.8      1156.2
Investments                     7.0       10.2       20.9       39.1       50.8
Fixed Assets                   12.2       11.4        10.7      10.4        16.7
Other Assets                   23.3       42.2       43.8       28.2       24.1
Total Aets                    783.0    1057.8      1080.81    1285.9     1605.6
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Usbilities
Customers' Deposit            326.6      407.0      331.7      507.2      517.9
Central Bank of Egypt          74.5       99.6      111.2      107.8       80.9
Bank's Current Accounts
& Time Deposits               173.6      279.5      275.7      286.4      573.0
Dividends Payable              12.4       14.1       18.1       18.4        0.0
Other Credit Balances          41.7       48.2       73.3       46.0       48.2
Provisions                     31.3       61.2       72.5       92.4       92.9
L/T Loans                      20.0       33.7       62.1       84.6       101.3
Total Liabilities             680.1      943.3      944.6    1142.8       1414.2
Equity
Paid-in Share Capital          51.9       53.7       69.0       69.0       69.0
Reserves                       51.0       60.8       67.2       74.1       122.4 /a
Total Equity                  102.9      114.5      136.2      143.1      191.4
Total Uab. & Equity           783.01    10578      1080.8    1285.9 j     1605.6



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                 23
| B. INCOME STATEMENT |                                              -
Income
Interest Received              62.0       92.7       106.9      105.2       104.0
Service Charges                 10.8       16.0       18.9       24.2       33.7
Investment Income               0.1        2.4         5.2       17.1        28.7
Foreign Currency
Operations Income               5.8        20.8        5.1        5.2         6.1
Other Income                    0.7         1.2        2.2        6.5         1.9
Sub-total                      79.4       133.1      138.3      158.2       174.4
Expenses
Interest Paid                  32.9       59.9        80.3       93.0       101.2
Gen. & Adm. Expenses
& Depreciation                  12.3       15.6       19.6       20.5        23.4
Misc. Expenses                  0.8        0.8         0.3        0.4         3.2
Subtotal                       46.0       76.3       100.2      113.9       127.8
Provisions                      13.0       29.3       11.7       19.1         0.0
Income Tax                      0.0         3.7        1.8        0.0         0.0
Subtotal                       13.0        33.0       13.5       19.1         0.0
NET INCOME                         1      23.8        24.61|  25.2          46.6
/a - Including net profit for the year to be distributed.



24                                                               Implementation Completion Report
Table     B _ank Mlar1ncome State nents FY 1990 - 94. Actual; FY 1984 - 88. SAR  stimate               (LE Million)
As of June 30,                   1990      1991      1992       1993      1994             1984      1985       1986      1987      1988
-         ~ACTUAL                                                 -SAR ESTIMATE
INCOME STATEMENTS
Interest on Loans                 963      1,438     1,938     1,379     2,068              256       295        306       403       471
Interest on Deposits              289       335       474        446       583               69        81         89       100       110
Income from Investments           172       239       570      1.435       608               21        23         25        28        31
Commisslons                       157       247       256        206       243               67        77         90       107       127
Other Income                       68         9       215        233       233               11        13         15        18        21
Total Income                 1,649           --2268  3- 453-3,699     3,735              424       489  _   525    _656 ___  760
EXPENSES
Interest Expenses               1,270      1,635     2,309     3,011     2,922              232       268       310        363       424
kdministrative Expenses           225       306       584        426       514               64        72        81         91       102
Provisions                         86       237       426        170       205               41        48         61        76        88
Total Expenses               14581      2.178= 3,607    3,41                       __33_    388452                      530 _    614
Profit before Taxes             68        90        134        92        94               87        101        73       126       146
Taxes                           30        47         88        43        42               31         35        40        44        52
Net Profit                      38  _    43         46         49        52               56        66         33        82_       94
* Profit bef.Taxes/Av. Equlty%   34.2        8.1      11.8       7.9       7.8             79.8       76.5      49.0      72.4      74:1
Profit bef. TaxJAv. TtI Assets %  0.3      0.3       0.4        0.2       0.2              1.9       1.9        1.2       1.9       1.9
Admin. Exp. / TU Assets %        1.1       1.1        1.8       1.1       1.4              1.4        1.4       1.4       1.4       1.3
Average Interest Spread of       2.4       5.3       9.3        0.8       3.7              2.2       2.4        1.4       2.2       1.9
loans over Deposits %
emm.m



Implemnetion Complerion Report                                                             25
Tabig go  Bank Misr. Balance Sheets FY 1990 - 94. Actual: FY1984 - 8B. SAR EstLmal1         (LE Million)
s of June 30.                  1990      1991     1992      1993      1994            1984     1985      1986      1987     1988
ACTLUAL                              S-R ESTIMATE
ASSET
Cash & Banks                  5,753    10,514    11.620    14,416    13,305           1,539    1,754     1,900    2,080     2,300
Loans                          9,268    11,548    9,261    15,506    16,853          2,940     3,352     3,888    4,588     5,505
Invesbments                    1.410    5.262    10,473     7,095    7,758             278       306      337       370      407
Fbied Assets & Others          4.012    2,015     2,590     2.396    2,320              54        60       67        76       85
Less: Provislons               (684)    (829)   (1.164)   (2,343)   (2,543)           (213)    (261)    (322)    (398)    (486)
Total Assets               1,5      28,510   32,780   37,070    37,693            4,598     5.21i     5.870    5,716    7,81I
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Deposits                      15,804    22,790    26.696    31,545    32,830         3,581     4,082     4,653    5,303     6,048
Borrowings & Olher Debts       3.756    4.608     4,952     4,361    3,664             908       997     1,068    1,237     1,566
Total Liabilities          19,560     27398 31,648    35,906 3 _4,489    5,079   5721                          6,540-  -7614
Paid-In Capital                 100     1,000     1,000     1.000     1,000             20        25       25        30       30
Reserves                         99       112       132      164       199              89       107      124       144      167
TotalEquity               __199       1.12     1,132     1,164    1,199             109_               149       174_   197
Total LIabIlltIes & Equity  19,759  _28,510   32,780   37,070   37,B93            4,598     5,211     5,870    6,714    7,811
RATIOS
- Cash Balances/Deposks%         36        46       44        46        41              43       43        41        39       38
- Loans/Deposls %                59        51       35        49        51              82       82        84        87       91
- LabbUes/Equlty(llmes)          98        25        28       31        30              41        38       38        38       39
- Provisbns&Reserves/Loan         8         8        14       16        16              10        11       11        12       12
PoiloUo %
uomm



26                                                                            Implementation Completion Report
MfISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (1989-93)
(LE million)
Year Ended Dec. 31               1989         1990         1991         1992         1993
A. BALANCE SHEET
ASSETS
Cash in Bank                        553.5        651.5         712.0        419.9       375.1
Securities                            5.2          3.0          12.1        123.7       321.6
Loans                               204.4        201.3         218.8       266.2        258.3
Loans Investments due
& Accrued Interest                  113.4        153.2        174.1        103.7        108.4
Accounts Receivable                   38.7        46.4          38.3        25.1         20.6
Equity Investments                   79.5         76.9          78.0         83.6        88.3
Net Fixed Assets                     30.6         30.0          28.6        26.5         24.5
Other                                  7.5          7.4          3.2         0.1          0.0
Total Assets                        1032.81      1169.7       1265.1[      1048.8      1196.8]
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Liabilities
Accounts Payable                      58.6        88.0          81.0        27.5         37.4
Customers Accounts                  321.2        417.2         558.3       376.3        441.8
Banks & Correspondents              362.6        358.0         246.9        186.3       253.6
Provisions                           45.3         60.2          85.9        106.2       125.5
Time Deposits                         50.1        54.2          62.8        96.3         88.4
Foreign Loans                         13.9         14.6         12.2         9.5          0.0
Subtotal                            851.7        992.2        1047.1       802.1        946.7
Equity
Paid-up Capital                      77.0         77.0         118.6        143.6       150.8
Reserves                             95.1         96.0          94.1        94.8         95.5
Retained Eamings                      9.0          4.5           5.3          8.3         3.8
Subtotal                             181.1I      177.5         218.0       246.7        250.1
|Total Liabilities & Equity          1032.81      1169.7       1265.1|      1048.8       1196.3



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                27
B. INCOME STATEMENT
Total Income                        85.6        100.0        108.7        100.9        94.8
Expenses
Interest on Deposits                60.2         71.2         74.1        56.5         55.7
Payroll                              4.2          4.3          4.9         5.3          5.7
Admin. Expenses                      4.7          5.3          5.9         7.4          7.7
Depreciation                          1.6         1.9          2.0         2.6          2.3
Provisions                           7.2         12.9         16.5        21.2         19.9
Other                                0.0          0.0          0.0         0.3          0.0
Subtotal                            77.9         95.6        103.4        93.3         91.3
Profit Before Tax                    7.7          4.4          5.3         7.6          3.5
Tax                                   0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0
[NET PROFIT                           7 71        431 4S3                   7.6         3.5



28                                                                                     Implementation Completion Report
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement:          Loan Agreement
Sectiqn:            2.04
Covenant Type:      13
Status:             CD
Original Fulfillment Date:    6/30/92
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:      Loan closing date.
Comments:           Extended to June 30, 1994. This was the final extension.
..................... ............................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:          Loan Agreement
Section:            3.01 (b)
Covenant Type:      12
Status:             NC
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:      Government to reorganize EEPC in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
Comments:           This component has been cancelled effective April 30, 1991, due to delays by the People's Assembly in approving a
law to grant EEPC managerial autonomy.
Agreement:          Loan Agreement
Section:            3.02(b)
Covenant Type:      3
Status:             C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:      This covenant no in original LA. Amendments of June 1989 stated that repayment from PBs to GOE on
account of subloans denominated in local currency shall be at an annual rate equal to the World Bank rate
plus a fee of 6.35% per annum to cover the foreign exchange risk.
Comments:           Amendments of 4/92 stated that repayment form PBs to GOE on account of subloans denominated in local currency
shall be at annual rate lower by 3 percentage points than minimum annual interest rate fixed or variable referred to in
PA para (a)(ii) of Sec. 2.04.
.....................................................................................................................................I............................................
Agreement:          Loan Agreement
Section:            3.02(vi)
Covenant Type:      9
Status:             C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:       Government, PBs, and Bank shall undertake quarterly review of subloan terms and conditions to determine
if adjustments thereto are necessary to ensure continued competitiveness of Bank funds with other foreign
exchange credits.
Comments:           Last revision made April 16, 1992.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:          Loan Agreement
Section:            3.02(vii)
Covenant Type:      12
Status:             C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:      Government may determine in agreement with Bank, to designate a new bank as a 'participating bank' if
new banks accept to abide with provisions of PB Project Agreement
Comments:           Only two PBs remained under this loan.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                                                                                 29
..............................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                    Loan Agreement
Section:                      3.03
Covenant Type:    5
Status:                       NC
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:                     EEPC to employ consultants to carry out Part C of Project (i.e., TA to help implement measures to
strengthen of EEPC, provide access to export-oriented enterprises, undertake training and studies, and help
establish Exporter Assistance Fund).
Comments:                     Cancelled.
.....I...........................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                    Loan Agreement
Section:                      3.04(A)
Covenant Type:    5
Status:                       NC
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:                     EEPC shall carry out studies under Part C(d) of project, furnish Bank with results, and thereafter take
necessary measures to implement agreed measures.
Comments:                     Cancelled.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                    Loan Agreement
Section:                      3.05(a)
Covenant Type:                 1
Status:                       NC
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:                     EEPC shall open an Exporter's Assistance Fund (EAF) Account, entnist such account to a Management
Committee composed of representatives of EEPC, EDBE and one of the PBs, establish rules for use of
funds in the Account, including eligibility criteria, procedures and financial arrangements to be extended to
applicants.
Comments:                     Cancelled.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                    Loan Agreement
Section:                      3.05(b)
Covenant Type:                 1
Status:                        NC
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:                     EEPC shall withdraw S250,000 for EAF Account.
Comments:                      Cancelled.
......................................................................................................................... ...............................................................................................................  
Agreement:                     Loan Agreement
Section:                       3.05(c)
Covenant Type:    12
Status:                       NC
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:                     EEPC shall review EAF procedures with Bank after $500,000 has been paid out.
Comments:                     Cancelled.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                    Loan Agreement
Section:                      3.08(a)
Covenant Type:    9
Status:                       NC
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:                     EEPC shall provide Bank copies of plans, contracts reports, etc., that are prepared under Part C of Project
(i.e., EEPC component).
Comments:                     Cancelled.
.................................................................................................................................................................................



30                                                                                                       Implementation Completion Report
Agreement:              Loan Agreement
Section:                3.08(b)
Covenant Type:          9
Status:                 NC
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:            EEPC shall maintain records and procedures adequate to record progress of Part C, including costs and
benefits to be derived, and shall provide Bank with progress reports every 6 months.
Comments:               Cancelled.
........................ I........................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:              Loan Agreement
Section:                4.02(a)
Covenant Type:           I
Status:                 NC
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:            EEPC shall maintain separate accounts for Part C of the Project, shall maintain records for SOEs until one
year after loan closing, shall submit audited accounts to Bank within 6 months after end of each fiscal year.
Comments:               Cancelled.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:              Project Agreement
Section:                 1.01(a)
Covenant Type:          3
Status:                 C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:            Free limit sub-loan definition: Except for the first three sub-loans proposed to be made to a sub-borrower
in wbich the PB has more than 25% of the share, a free limit sub-loan shall not exceed $1,675,000.
Comments:               No change.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:              Project Agreement
Section:                2.02(a)
Covenant Type:          3
Status:                 C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:             Maximum  sub-loan amount of $6.6 million. Prior to June 17, 1989 amendment to the corresponding figure
was $6.0 million.
Comments:               No change.
...............................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:               Project Agreement
Section:                2.02(b)
Covenant Type:          3
Status:                  C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:             Eligible sub-projects shall not have an estimated cost exceeding $26.7 million. Prior to June 17, 1989
amendment to the corresponding figure was $25.0 million.
Comments:               No change.
................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:              Project Agreement
Section:                2.02(c)
Covenant Type:          3
Status:                 C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:            Aggregate amount of sub-loans by all PBs to private sector in Egypt shall not be less than 50%  of the total
amount of the loan earmarked fbr PBs.
Comments:               So far 100%  approvals are for the private sector.
.................................................................................................................................................................................



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                               31
Agreement:            Project Agreement
Section:              2.03(c)
Covenant Type:        3
Status:               C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:         Each request by a PB for a sub-loan shall contain an export development plan demonstrating that the sub-
project is expected to export not less than 30% of its production (i) within 3 years for existing enterprises,
and (ii) within 5 years for new ones.
Comments:             Marketing plans of sub-borrowers satisfy this condition. Actual performance is yet to be seen.
.....................................................................................  I....................................................I........................................................I......................   ..     .............................
Agreement:            Project Agreement
Section:              2.04
Covenant Type:        13
Status:               CD
Original Fulfillment Date:       6/30/89
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:          Terminal date for sub-loan submission to the Bank.
Comments:             Extended to 12/31/93. This was the final extension.
Agreement:            Project Agreement
Section:              2.04(a)(i)
Covenant Type:        2
Status:               C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:         PBs shall charge interest rate on subloans denominated in foreign convertible currencies sufficient to cover
intermediation costs and compensate PBs for risk of losses between exchange rate changes between
currencies of subloans and those currencies in which PB's obligation to repay is denominated. Agreed on
5/6/87 original PA provided for sub-borrowers to carry US$ & currencies of repayment to Bank.
Comments:             There have been no subloans denominated in foreign currencies.
................................................ I.................................................................................................................................
Agreement:            Project Agreement
Section:              2.04(a)(ii)(A)
Covenant Type:        3
Status:               C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:         The exchange rate to be used in obtaining value of LE denominated subloans will be based on the rate of
exchange for the dollar in terms of LE declared by participating bank, for the purpose of effecting foreign
currency transactions, on the respective dates of disbursement made to the investment enterprise under the
subloan contract.
Comments:             Amended by letter of April 16, 1992. Previous date of fixing the exchange rate was that of sub-loan contract.
.................................................................................................................................................. ...............................
Agreement:            Project Agreement
Section:              2.04(a)(ii)(B)
Covenant Type:        3
Status:               C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:          (Amended covenant as of 4/92). For LE-denominated loans at fixed interest, the minimum onlending rate
shall be 2 percentage points below CB discount rate, and for those approved at variable interest rate,
minimum rate shall be initially 3 percentage points below CB discount rate & would be adjusted annually
with cap of + or - 1.5% for each adjustment and cap of + or - 6% for subloan duration,
Comments:             None.



32                                                                                       Implementation Completion Report
Agreement:          Project Agreement
Section:            2.04(b)
Covenant Type:      3
Status:             C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:      Bank, Government and PBs shall determine in context of review to be undertaken pursuant to Section 3.02
of the Loan Agreement whether any adjustments should be made in terms and conditions applicable to the
subloans.
Comments:           None.
........................................................................................................................ ......I .....................
Agreement:          Project Agreement
Section:            2.04(c)
Covenant Type:      3
Status:             C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:       Each PB shall require, as a condition of providing a subloan, that each sub-project which is estimated to
cost LE 2.5 million should have an EROR of at least 12%. This was section 2.04(d). It was relettered as a
result of June 17, 1989 amendments.
Comments:           None.
............................................I ............  ............................... ................ ................   ...... ..........I......................I..........
Note:
C    Complied with
CD Compliance after delay
NC Not complied with



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                          33
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There is no known incidence of non-conformance widi Operational Manual Statements.



34                                                                                 Implementation Completion Report
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff inputs
Planned                               Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                            Weeks                US$               Weeks               US$
Through Appraisal                                                                         55.5
Appraisal - Board                                                                         11.0
Board - Effectiveness                                                                     15.3
Supervision                                                                              141.1
Completion                                                                                10.3
Total                                                                                    233.2



Implementaton Completion Report                                                                                         35
Table 13: Bank Resoure.: Misdom
Specialized        Perfonnance Rating
Stage of              Month/   Number   Days in    Staff Skills   implementation    Development
of
Project Cycle          Year     Persons     Field     Represented       Status         Objectives          Types of Problems
Through Appraisal      02/84       3          65      ECN, FNA
Appraisal to Board     06/84       3          5       ECN, FNA
Board Approval to
Effectiveness       08/87        2         is       ECN, FNA           3                3        Delay in effectiveness
Supervision            09/87       5          4       ECN, FNA            3                3        Delay in implementation
06188       5          7       ECN, FNA            3                3        Need for project restructuring
11/88       1          5          ECN              3               3
03/89       2          3          ECN              3                3
06/89       2          4          ECN              3                3
03/90       2          6          ECN              3                3
04/91       4          19         ECN              3                3        Slow fund utilization
10/92       2          5          ECN              2               2        Delay in project
04/93       2          7          ECN              2                2
Completion             09194       2          6       FNA, ECN            -                2
m:\egt\pL5045\1r2459\pcr\2459. ic



36                                                      Impiementation Completion Report



APPENDICES



38                                                     Implementation Completion Report



Implementation Completion Report                                                     39
Appendix A
Export Industries Development Project
(Ln. 2459-EGT)
World Bank Implementation Completion Mission
(September 18 - October 6, 1994)
Aide Memoire
1. A World Bank Mission consisting of Messrs. Y.T. Shetty and Nabil Shehadeh carried out the
Implementation Completion Review of the Export Industries Development Project (Ln. 2459-EGT)
from September 18 - October 6, 1994. Mr. Rouchdy Saleh, of the IBRD Resident Office in Cairo,
provided support to the team. The mission met with officials of the Ministry of Economy, the Export
Development Bank of Egypt (EDBE), the Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB), and the Export
Promotion Center (EPC). A list of persons met is given in Attachment I. The findings of the mission
are subject to review in Washington by the Bank management. Following this review and comments
by the Borrower (the Government), this Aide memoire will be finalized and incorporated as an annex
to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to be submitted to the Board of the World Bank.
Proiect Objectives and Description
2. The main objectives of the project were to: (i) provide financing to export-oriented projects in the
public and private sectors through selected participating banks (PBs); (iii) strengthen the then newly-
established Export Development Bank of Egypt (EDBE); (iv) restructure the Export Promotion Center
(EPC) to provide more effective technical assistance to exporters; and (v) finance specific studies on
export policy, regulations and procedures to determine actions necessary to improve the policy and
institutional environment.
3. The Project had two main components: (i) a line of credit to finance export-oriented investments
through four participating banks - Export Development Bank of Egypt (EDBE), Banque Misr (BM),
Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB) and National Bank for Development (NBD); (ii) a technical
assistance component to strengthen EDBE and the Egyptian Export Promotion Center, and to set-up a
Technical Assistance Fund for exporters under EEPC.
Financial Aspects
4. Out of the IBRD Loan of US$125 million to the Borrower (the Government), US$118.98 million
was to be provided to EDBE and, US$6.02 million to EPC as grant including US$3.0 million for
setting up the Exporter Assistance Fund (EAF). (The entire EPC component of US$6.02 million was
dropped subsequently when the Government decided not to issue a Presidential decree for
restructuring EPC with stronger full-time management--which was a condition for Loan
effectiveness). EDBE was to use US$1.01 million (to meet its fees for onlending and cover the cost
of TA for developing it) and onlend US$117.97 million (serving as an apex organization) to three PBs
to make sub-loans to export-oriented projects. Initially, the loan amount was to be nationally
allocated equally among the PBs which would then be responsible for payment of the Bank's
commitment charge and front-end fee on an equal basis. The interest rate for onlending to sub-
borrowers was to be calculated as follows:



40                                                         Implementation Completion Report
-  Interest rate to Borrower (Government)   IBRD Variable rate2
-  Government spread                         1.25%3
-  EDBE spread                               0.25%4
-  PBs spread                                2.50%5 - 3.5%
5. On the above basis, at the time when the IBRD loan was approved in June 1984, the onlending
interest rate to the final sub-borrower would range from 14.08-15.08%. Moreover, the sub-loans
were to be denominated in U.S. dollars, with the sub-borrowers bearing the foreign exchange risk
between the U.S. dollar and the Egyptian Pound. The Government was to bear the cross-currency
foreign exchange risk between the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies.
6. As subsidized foreign exchange funds were available in Egypt, the market rate for foreign
exchange loans was lower than the notional 14.08 - 15.08% and, soon after the IBRD loan was
approved by the Board, it was felt by PBs that the onlending interest rate was higher than the market
rate and on the basis of the formula recommended by the Bank for determining the onlending interest
rate, there would be only limited demand on U.S. dollar denominated sub-loans. Further, the
exchange rate was distorted in Egypt (under the dual exchange rate system) and there were
expectations of devaluation and the U.S. dollar denominated sub-loans were to be repaid in the
highest exchange rate declared by the Central Bank of Egypt on the day of repayment. As these
terms were found to be too stringent and as the economy was going through a recession (which was
aggravated subsequently by the initial impact of major macroeconomic reforms under the Structural
Adjustment Loan --SAL), the originally selected PBs were reluctant to sign the subsidiary loan
agreement with the Borrower. The signing of the subsidiary loan agreement with at least two PBs
was the condition for effectiveness of the loan. This condition was not met for about three years and
the loan finally became effective on August 19, 1987. Earlier, the National Bank for Development
(NBD) and the Industrial Development Bank (IDB) had dropped out of the project as they felt that
they would not be able to market the sub-loans on the terms specified by IBRD. MIDB, which was
later included as a participant bank, also dropped out after using US$5.0 million to finance one
export-oriented project. Banque Misr, another participating bank, was able to make only five sub-
loans totalling US$6.3 million. When PBs were finding it difficult to market sub-loans, EDBE opted
to become a PB instead of serving as an apex entity to channel IBRD funds to PBs. EDBE, being
new, made special efforts to market the sub-loans using cheaper foreign exchange loans (from other
sources such as concessional Central Bank finance for export-oriented industries) to move the IBRD
funds. Its lending also accelerated following the revision of the onlending rates in mid-1992 as part
of the overall financial market reforms under SAL. At that time, it was agreed that the sub-loans
would be made by PBs denominated in local currency with a variable interest rate 3 percentage points
below the discount rate. Within six months of the approval of this change came the deadline
(December 31, 1992) for the commitment of funds and the Bank did not want to extend the deadline
for commitment as the loan was overaged. However, the closing date was extended to June 30, 1994
(from the original date of June 30, 1992).
2/    Was 10.08% at the time of Board approval on June 28, 1984
3/    To cover part of the foreign exchange risk and to finance partly the cost of EAF.
4/    To meet the cost of the apex function
5/     Minimum



Implementation Completion Report                                                     41
7. When Banque Misr and MIDB were not able to market much of the loans, EDBE agreed to
market US$ 10 million more than initially allocated to it while US$72.73 million was cancelled in
1989 from the original loan of US$125 million. After cancellation, the revised loan amount was
US$52.27 million. The total disbursement from the revised amount as of mid-September 1994 was
US$47.716 million in 31 sub-loans including 25 EDBE sub-loans, five Banque Misr sub-loans, and
one MIDB sub-loan. The undisbursed amount was to be cancelled as of September 30, 1994, the date
for closing the IBRD account books for Ln. 2459-EGT.
8. Compared to the original loan of US$125 million, only 38% was used. The disbursement
actually increased when the onlending terms were modified in 1992 in the light of financial sector
reforms. At the final phase, EDBE and Banque Misr were making sub-loans denominated in
Egyptian Pounds at 11.5% (three percentage points below the discount rate).
Implementation and Entity Status
9. Described below is the achievement of progress under each of the two components of the project:
EDBE Component
10.    EDBE, which was established in 1983 with technical assistance under a Project Preparation
Loan from the World Bank, has become a dynamic financial institution specializing in financing
export-oriented industries and providing trade finance. It established the Export Credit Guarantee
Company of Egypt (ECGE) in September 1993 with 55% participation in the issued capital which has
been since then reduced to 35.3% with the sale of part of its shares in a public offering. EDBE has
also set up an Export Information Center to provide up-to-date information on export markets and
exportable products.
11.   The achievements of EDBE have surpassed appraisal expectations. Of the total 25 sub-loans
(all in the private sector), 11 were for new projects and 14 were for expansion/rehabilitation projects.
The average size of the sub-loan was US$ 1.4 million. Of the total amount onlent, 52% went to
spinning and weaving; 28% to chemical industries; 8% to metallurgical industry; 8% to food
processing industry; and 4% to tourism. Of the 25 projects, 23 are completed and the remaining two
are expected to be commissioned soon. Of the 23 projects completed, all except two (the Egyptian
Cruise Lines which has suspended operations because of the risk of terrorism, and TECHNOPACK
which faced initial start-up technical problems as well as marketing problems) were completed within
cost and schedule. While the prospects for Egyptian Cruise Lines are not clear, TECHNOPACK
(which produces polyethylene films for printing and packaging) is making progress towards
overcoming its technical and marketing problems. It was commissioned in 1990, after one year
delay, and the company showed losses in 1991, 1992 and 1993 because of technical problems in
meeting product specification (with respect to thickness and color of the polyethylene film). This
year, TECHNOPACK is expected to show a net profit of about LE 2 million. Further, it has carried
out financial restructuring. Its capital has been raised from LE 17.5 million to LE 40 million; and its
debt has been rescheduled and denominated in foreign exchange with a concessionary interest rate
(LIBOR plus 2%) to provide relief to the company.
12.    Financial Situation of EDBE: Total term loan commitment by EDBE during FY94
amounted to about LE 86.6 million, about 7% lower than in FY93, while disbursements of LE 52.2
million in FY94 were about 40% lower than in FY93 (when it disbursed LE 75.1 million). The
slowdown in loan commitments and disbursements reflects the fact that EDBE's foreign lines of credit
are running out and it needs new lines. EDBE has LE 50.9 million in equity investment in 12



42                                                       Implementation Completion Report
companies, deriving attractive dividends. In spite of the decline in lending and disbursement, net
profit of EDBE increased 85% in FY94 to LE46.6 million (compared to LE 25.2 million in FY93).
This was partly due to the increase in dividend income from other investment.
13.    Total arrears of EDBE at the end of FY94 amounted to LE 30.5 million, including LE 21.8
million in principal and LE 8.7 million in interest. Of the total arrears, LE 13.7 million (44%) is
from one company (ENVOCO) which has good collateral. Arrears on 26 IBRD sub-loans is only
LE1.4 million. Accumulated provisions reached LE 92.9 million in FY94, three times the total
arrears, reflecting a comfortable situation. Further, the financial structure of the Company is also
satisfactory. Its debt/equity ratio was 7.3:1 at the end of FY94, which is within the requirement of
the Central Bank (i.e. 8:1). The capital adequacy ratio (11.9:1) and the liquidity ratio (33% on local
currency deposits and 28% on foreign currency deposits) and the reserve ratio of 19.2% are also
within for Central Bank requirements.
Bangue Misr Component
14.   As noted, Banque Misr (BM), one of the leading public comrnmercial banks, found it difficult
to market IBRD sub-loans as potential borrowers found the terms unfavorable. However, it
succeeded in making five sub-loans (all to private sector companies) totalling US$ 6.3 million from
Ln. 2459-EGT. (It was also a participating bank under Ln. 2460-EGT). Of the five sub-loans, four
were to new projects and one was to an expansion project (to expand refrigerator production). The
individual sub-loans have been small ranging from US$ 0.8 million to US$ 2.1 million. All five
projects have been highly successful. Two companies have already pre-paid the sub-loans in full.
15.   The financial situation of BM continues to be satisfactory. Its net profit was LE 218.1 million
in FY93. Unaudited report for FY94 shows a debt/equity ratio of 21/79, and a liquidity ratio of
23.8% on local currency deposits (as against the Credit Bank requirement of at least 15%) and 54.6%
on foreign currency deposits (as against the requirement of at least 25%). However, its arrears have
increased in FY94 by 20% to LE 668 million. In FY93, the arrears were LE 554.6 million, about
5% of the outstanding loans. There is need to intensify efforts to collect arrears and monitor them on
a regular basis, giving particular attention to the age profile of the arrears.
IDBE Component
16.   As noted, this was dropped as IDBE found it difficult to market substantial amounts of IBRD
funds simultaneously under this loan (Ln. 2459-EGT) and the Small and Medium Industry Loan (Ln.
2458-EGT) when the market demand was slack due to recession. When IDBE dropped out, the Misr
Iran Development Bank (MIDB) was included as a participating bank under Ln. 2459-EGT.
MIDB Component
17.   As noted, MIDB used US$ 5 million to make one sub-loan to an export-oriented company,
TECHNOPACK, and got the remaining US$24.5 million cancelled as it found it difficult to market
the sub-loans. Even in the case of the one sub-loan, MIDB has pre-paid it to the Government as of
January 18, 1993. The company which was the beneficiary of this sub-loan, TECHNOPACK, in
which both MIDB and EDBE have an equity stake of 28% each and both have also made loans. The
financial situation of this problem project is already described in para 11.
18.   Financial Situation of MIDB:      Between FY92 and FY93, MIDB's approvals of term
loans decreased from LE 239.6 million to LE 175.6 million. During the same period, disbursements



Implementation Completion Report                                                      43
decreased from LE 216.3 million to LE 159.8 million. The decline in loan approvals and
disbursement in the result of lack of long-term foreign credit lines. MIDB is exploring new lines of
foreign credits to expand lending. As for equity investments, they reached in FY94 about LE 88.3
million in 30 companies, of which about 62% was in foreign currency (US$ 23 million equivalent).
19.   The term loan portfolio performance of MIDB deteriorated in FY 93 (the latest year for
which audit report is available). Arrears including principal and interest amounted to LE 108.4
million, accounting for about 62% of the term loan portfolio.
20.   The economic liberalization of 1992 resulted in higher operating costs to many MIDB
customers and, as a result, arrears have increased. Forcing debt collection through liquidation is
extremely difficult in Egypt under the existing legal system and procedures. MIDB is making
greater, though selected, use of debt rescheduling and provision of relief by working capital loans. It
is also strengthening project supervision efforts in order to detect early warnings and take corrective
measures.
21.   The level of accumulated provisions increased from LE 106.2 million in FY92 to LE 125.5
million in FY93, more than fully covering the outstanding arrears. Further, MIDB's debt/equity ratio
improved significantly to 3.8:1 in FY93, following the collection of unpaid capital from share
holders. Its liquidity ratio in FY 93 was 96% on local currency deposits and 53% on foreign
currency deposits (significantly above the Central Bank requirement).
Technical Assistance and Studies Components
22.   Both these components were not carried out. Technical assistance to the Export Promotion
Center (EPC) was dropped as the condition for effectiveness (passing of a Presidential Decree to
restructure EPC) was not met. Establishment of the Export Assistance Fund, which was to be
operated by EPC to provide technical assistance to exporters, was also not carried out. Further, the
Studies Component, for which EPC was to be responsible, was not carried out. Studies were to
review and help formulate proposals to improve export policy, procedures, incentives, regulation, and
examine selected investment opportunities in promising industries. Even though the studies were not
carried out, most of the study objectives were later realized under macroeconomic reforms.
Moreover, EPC was strengthened somewhat (but needs technical assistance to develop further) under
a new Presidential Decree issued in 1992, thus meeting another objective under Ln. 2459-EGT.
Compliance with Covenants
23.   The compliance with legal covenants has been generally satisfactory except for delays in
submitting audit reports. Further, in the course of implementation, several amendments were made to
the terms and conditions of onlending to reflect changes in the macroeconomic policy environment
and financial market conditions.
Achieven_.e.rt of Project Objectives
2t4.    i tie project proved to be overambitious in the context of the economic recession which was
aggravated under the initial impact of major macroeconomic policy reforms initiated in 1992. As a
result, the project was restructured and a large part of the loan was cancelled.
25.   Although the loan utilization fell far short of the amount envisaged at appraisal, the
development impact from the point of view of institution building was very satisfactory. EDBE,



44                                                            Implementation Completion Report
which was established with IBRD technical assistance in 1983, has now become a leading financial
institution providing credit to export-oriented industries and exporters. It played a major role in
utilizing part of the IBRD loan effectively while two participating banks pulled out, one cancelled its
loan portion after using only a minor amount, and the other made only a partial use of its loan
portion.
Major Risks
26.    Major risks in the operational phase of the project are: (i) continuing problems of arrears
facing financial institutions which participated in the project; (ii) lack of adequate attention to
developing and implementing comprehensive training plans; (iii) limited trained staff especially at
MIDB as the turnover rate is high, even though its salary scales are higher than in the public sector.
(Last year, MIDB lost 40 trained staff who went mostly to Gulf countries); (iv) both EDBE and
MIDB lack long-term foreign exchange lines of credit to extend their operation while the demand for
such loans is increasing; (v) the profitability of MIDB is declining as its lending volume is decreasing
for lack of long-term foreign funds; and (vi) the number of problem projects in MIDB project
portfolio is high (about 20%).
Plans for Sustainabilitv
27.    All PBs need to : (i) increase collection and reduce arrears by increasing the frequency of
site visits to projects/companies in arrears; setting periodic targets for collection of arrears and
monitoring them; (ii) develop and implement more comprehensive training plans; and (iii) strengthen
the capability of their Project Departments in appraisal and supervision.
28.    MIDB has prepared a plan for recruitment and training, and is introducing higher salary
scales to reduce turnover of trained staff. It is also trying to secure foreign lines of credit.
Meanwhile, one public commercial bank which is a shareholder in MIDB has been instructed by the
Government to sell its shares to the public. Further, MIDB is planning to diversify its operations. In
this context, it is considering the establishment of a venture capital subsidiary. (So far, there is only
or;e venture capital company in Egypt). It has plans to open an Information Center on Venture
Capital. In pursuing its future plans, both MIDB and EDBE are showing keen interest in IBRD
financial and technical assistance. Further MIDB indicated interest in sending its staff for
participation in EDI courses in Washington on venture capital, capital market development, asset
valuation of companies, restructuring, privatization, private sector development, etc.
29.    EDBE has plans to strengthen its Project Sector at the Headquarters which has at present a
limited professional staff of 25. Its Cairo office and two branches are interconnected through a
computerized management information system. Further, it is trying to secure foreign lines of credit
to expand its lending operations. It is also planning to privatize its operations. Two public
commercial banks which are shareholders in EDBE, are planning to sell their shares to the general
public under the privatization program of the Government. As the concessionary Central Bank credit
to EDBE has declined and is expected to be phased out soon, EDBE is seeking to augment its
resources through: (i) the Central Bank permitting a part of its deposits to be kept in EDBE at
competitive rates; (ii) the Government allowing part of social security funds as well as funds from
public sector insurance companies to be deposited in EDBE at competitive rates; (iii) EDBE issuing
floating rate notes denominated in foreign currency; and (iv) EDBE securing new foreign currency
lines of credit. Without additional sources of funds, EDBE would be constrained in its plan to
assume a larger role in export development. EDBE has a critical role to play (in collaboration with
the Export Promotion Center and the Industrial Design Development Center) in boosting exports.



Implementation Completion Report                                                   45
Currently, the country's exports are stagnating (they have actually declined slightly from about
US$3.9 billion in FY91 to US$3.4 billion in FY93) while imports continue to be high (about three
times the exports).



46
BORROWER'S EVALUATION
(LN. 2459-EGT)
In Relation to the World Bank's performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project some issues could be highlighted. At the level of the
World Bank, changing personnel and administration was a drawback in terns of time
wasted. It was rather time consuming to re-explain problems and issues related to the
project due to changes in existing staff. The same analogy could be made about change
in missions visiting for follow up purposes. That in turn, resulted in a rather slow
decision making with respect to some issues related to the project.
With respect, to the performance of the borrower and financial intermediaries
it could be described as satisfactory. Good coordination and correspondence was sensed
throughout the period of the project. However, involvement of several banks during the
evolution and implementation of the project might have had its effects upon the rather
slow course of action. For example, it took about 6 months of negotiations between the
four banks to adjust interest rates of the loan according to market requirments.
One of lessons learned from this relationship is that in case of renewal of the
expired loan it would better be done on a level of one to one basis.
.e:        Renewal with each bank on its own. That, in turn, means reduced
procedures and thus less time consumption.
EDBE'S plan for the next five years focuses mainly on sustaining the profit
growth. The target plan concentrates on shemes for lending, borrowing growth rates
and privatization. With respect to lending, growth rate is targeted at a level of 15% for
meduim term lending and 10 - 15% for short term lending term. As for borrowing -
securing resources - EDBE's lines come from long term lending, interbank lending and
deposit base. The third form is privatization which could enhance futhur resources to
the bank. These resources could be used for training staff to get high caliber and thus
better quality management which will futher enhance profits.



47
Since its establishment, EDBE has realized the importance of a well trained staff. Thus, on
the job training, seminars, training sessions, and workshops were an indispensable tool to
mobilize the BanKs workforce.
English language courses are offered to all staff below managerial level to expand their
language capabilities and facilitate their interaction with clients and foreign financial
institutions.
Employees regularly attend various specialised training sessions in credit, project evaluation,
documentary credit, operations, etc. Moreover, other employees holding supervisory and
managerial positions are sent abroad to attend seminars and lectures given in topics related to
banling industry.
The Bank is always seeking premium quality training for its employees, therefore the list of
training institutions dealt with include some of the most prestigeous education centers in
Egypt, and other centers abroad. This list would include:
-      The British Council in Cairo
-      The American University in Cairo
I3M Egypt
-      Commercial Studies and Research Center
Decision Consultancy Center
-      Egyptian Banks Union
-      The Chartered Institute of Bankers
-      Arab Institute for Financial and Banldng Studies (based in Jordan)
-      Arab Banks Union (based in Lebanon)
plus several other training centers in Europe and USA.
The following table represents the number of employees offered training and the training's cost
for the past four years:
YEAR LOCAL ABROAD COST IN
L.E.
1990       98           9           133,090
1991      139          23          242,961
1992      107           16         472,945
1993      109           15         370,130
1994       97           6          329,766



48
Throughout the period of 1990-1994 EDBE has extended subsidized loans and World Bank
loans amounting to L.E. 70 miillon and L.E. 112 million respectively to promote export
oriented projects.
Agriculture industry and Services were the major beneficiary sectors. Besides, EDBE
established complementary functions such as: The Export Guarantee & Insurance Company
and the Export Information Center which was created to provide exporters with a wide
information base.






I M, AGJ IN CT
Rep ort No:        14 6 8.9
Type: ICR



