Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LA. 1qs4-c54r
Report No. 5015-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EXPORT I NDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 1, 1984
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (LE)
US$1.00 = LE 0.70 (Central Bank Pool Rate)
US$1.00 = LE 0.84 (Commercial Bank Pool Rate)
List of Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDB    African Development Bank
BM      Bank Misr
CBE     Central Bank of Egypt
CED     Cabinet Committee on Export Development
CRD     Commercial Representation Department
DIB     Development Industrial Bank
DFC     Development Finance Company
DRC     Domestic Resource Cost
EAF     Exporter Assistance Fund
EDB     Export Development Bank of Egypt
EDI     Economic Development Institute
EEC     European Econor..ic Community
EEPC    Egyptian Export Promotion Centre
EIB     European Investment Bank
GAFI    General Authority for Foreign Investments
GOE     Government of Egypt
GOIEF   General Organization for International Exhibitions
and Fairs
IC      Investment Centre, Bank Misr
INP     Institute of National Planning
ITC     International Trade Centre, Geneva
KFW     Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau
L/C     Letter of Credit
LIBOR   London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
NBD     National Bank for Development
OPEC    Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PB      Participating Bank
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
TA      Technical Assistance
TAP     Temporary Admission Procedure
TOR     Terms of Reference
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
Arab Republic of Egypt
Fiscal Year: July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
ti)
Egypt; Export Industries Development Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
Project and Loan Summary                                  (iv)
I.    Introduction - The Need for Export Growth                   1
and Rationale for the Project
II.    The Industrial Sector                                       5
(A) Structural Characteristics and Trends                   5
(B) Economic Efficiency and Comparative                     6
Advantage
(C) Recent Export Performance and Medium Term               7
Prospects
III.    The Policy and Institutional
Framework for Export Development                            9
(A) Exchange Rate and Trade Policy Regime                   9
'i) The Exchange Rate System and Exports                  9
(ii) The Protection Regime                                10
(iii) Exporter Access to Imported Inputs                   10
(iv) investment Incentives for Export
Performance                                          12
(B) Institutional Framework for Export Development         12
(i) Export Promotion Institutions                        12
(ii) The Financial Sector and its Role in                 13
Financing Exports
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 1
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Page No.
IV.    Proposed Financial Intermediaries                           17
(A) Export Development Bank (EDB)                          17
(B) Development Industrial Bank (DIB)                      21
(C) National Bank for Development (NBD)                    24
(D) Bank Misr (BM)                                         26
V.    The Project                                                 29
(A) Bank Strategy and Relation to the Sector               29
(B) Project Description                                    30
(C) Financing Export-Oriented Projects                     34
(D) Technical Assistance to The Egyptian
Export Development Bank (EDB)                          37
(E) Assistance to the Egyptian Export                      39
Promotion Centre (EEPC)
(F) Exporter Assistance Fund                               48
(G) Technical Assistance Related                           51
to Action Program
VI.    The Proposed Loan                                           52
(A) Loan Features                                          52
(B) Project Benefits and Risks                             55
VII.    Agreements to be Reached and Recommendations                57



(iii)
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Economic Efficiency and Comparative Advantage of Egyptian
Industry.
Annex 2: Program of Financial and Non-Financial Services for the
Export Sector.
Annex 3: Egyptian Export Development Bank - Financial Statements.
Annex 4: Development Industrial Bank - Financial Statements.
Annex 5: National Bank for Development - Financial Statements.
Annex 6: Bank Misr - Financial Statements.
Annex 7: Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects and Checklist of
Items to be Included in Export Development Plans.
Annex 8: Quarterly Disbursement Schedule.
Annex 9: List of Documents in Project File.
This Staff Appraisal Report is based on two missions which visited Egypt in
November 1983 and January/February 1984. The first mission comprised
Messrs. S. Banerji (Chief), C. Basterra, G. Gowen and J. Stcphenson
(Consultant). The second mission comprised Messrs. S. Banerji (Chief), G.
Cowen, A. Deshpande, C. Basterra, D. Papageorgiou, G. Kansu (ITC Consultant)
and D. Gupta (ITC Consultant).



(iv)
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Arab Republic of Egypt.
Amount:           US$125 million equivalent, including capitalized front end
fee.
Beneficiaries:    Egyptian Export Promotion Center (EEPC), Export Development
Bank (EDB) and participating banks (PBs).
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:  The Government would on-lend US$118 million for the credit
component to EDB at an interest rate equal to the Bank rate
plus 1.25 percentage points. EDB would relend this amount
to the PBs with an idditional spread of 0.25 percentage
points, and the PBs uould onlend this to the subborrowers at
a minimum interest rate of 14X. Amortization of the credit
component would conform substantially to the aggregate of
the amortization schedules applicable to the specific
investment projects financed out of the proceeds of the
proposed loan. The remaining Bank funds (US$6.7 million)
would be retained by the GoveLnment and provided as a grant
to EEPC and EDB for technical assistance and for
establishing an Exporter Assistance Fund. The technical
assistance components would be repayable in 20 years,
including 5 years of grace. The exchange risk between the
Egyptian pound and the US dollar would be borne by the
sub-borrowers; the exchange risk with other currencies would
be borne by the Government.
Project           The project is designed to support a government program of
Description:      policy and institutional reform, intended to expand
manufactured exports. The project would: help finance
efficient export-oriented investments in the public and
private sector through several PBs whose appraisal
capabilities in this area will be upgraded; strengthen the
recently established EDB so that it can function as an apex
unit for the proposed loan, and also provide export credit
guarantees and insurance needed by exporters; assist in the
restructuring and expansion of an export promotion agency
(EEPC); finance technical assistance to improve the
efficiency and marketing capabilities of e::porters; and
finance specific studies of export policy and procedures as
part of an agreed action program to further improve the
policy and institutional environment for exports.



(v)
Project Benefits The project would result in about US$300 million of
and Risks:         investments in 50 to 60 export-oriented sub-projects which
would export goods worth an estimated US$135 million per
year at ftill operation and would create roughly an
additional 10,000 jobs. It would help existing and
potential exporters upgrade export capability and diversify
product and market areas and help fill serious gaps in the
institutional framework of the sector. Through its
preparation, the project has already made an impact on the
policy and institutional framework, which would be continued
by means of an action program of reform in key areas. As
the first project in a complex area, this project has
obvious risks, which relate to the pace of policy reform and
the effectiveness of the institutions involved. However,
given action by the Government to date, its support for
policy reforms and the proposed measures, these risks are
considered acceptable.
Individual         Maximum subproject investment of US$20 million; maximum
Subloans and       subloan size of US$5 million; free limit for each PB of
Free limits:       US$1.25 million.
Estimated Project Costs: 1/                    Foreign      Local      Total
…-------- US $miTlion---…----
Project Investment                   150.0        150.0 2/  300.0
Technical Assistance                   3.6 3/       -          3.6
Consultants                        (2.1)         -        (2.1)
Training Abroad                    (0.5)         -        (0.5)
Equipment                          (0.3)         -        (0.3)
Contractor Supervision             (0.3)         -        (0.3)
Contingencies                      (0.4)         -        (0.4)
EEPC Work Program                       -          5.7         5.7
Exporter Assistance Fund               5.0         1.0         6.0
Front-End Fee                          0.3          -         0.3
Total Financing Required          158.9       156.7      315.6
Financing Plan:                                Foreign     Lacal       Total
--------US $ Million--------
Bank                                 125.0          -        125.0
Government                              -          5.7         5.7
PBs                                    5.3       101.6      106.9
Export Firms                          28.6        49.4        78.0
Total Financing                   158.9       156.7      315.6
1/  Net of taxes and duties.
2/  Representing the estimated local costs of project investments financed by
the Bank line of credit.
3/  US$565,000 of this would be used to refinance a Project Preparation
Facility which has already been made available to EDB and EEPC for urgent
technical assistance requirements.



(vi)
Estimated Bank
Loan Disbursements;               FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
--------US $ million-
Annual                       5.0   20.0   36.0   35.0   18.0   11.0
Cumulative                   5.0   25.0   61.0   96.0  114.0  125.0
Economic Rate
of Return:           N.A.



Staff Appraisal Report
Egypt: Export Industries Development Project
I. Introduction: The Need for Export Growth
and Rationale for the Project
The Need for Export Growth
1.01     Since the Open Door Policy was announced in 1973, Egyptian non-oil
merchandise exports (agricultural and industrial products) have declined
markedly in real terms, their share in GDP declining from 14% in 1974 to less
than 6% in 1981/82. In constant dollar terms, exports of manufactures in
1981/82 amounted to only about 60% of the 1975 level in spite of the strong
growth of the industrial sector during this period. Much of this decline can
be attributed to; (a) distortions in the exchange rate and trade policy
regimes and lack of actions to correct constraints to export growth mentioned
in para 1.3; and (b) the redirection of trade from Clearing Account countries
to Western countries - from 80Z of the total in 1975 to 36% in 1980/81 - which
disrupted exports of many labor intensive products which could not compete
elsewhere.
1.02     Until recently, this poor performance of non-oil merchandise exports
was not viewed as a serious problem since large inflows of exogenous resources
(foreign exchange receipts from petroleum exports, Suez Canal dues, workers'
remittances, tourism receipts, and foreign capital inflows) enabled rapid
growth of consumption and imports. However, in 1982/83, inflows of exogenous
resources levelled off due to a fall in oil prices and a slowdown in the
growth of tourism receipts and workers' remittances. In turn, this resulted
in a fall in the GDP growth rate due to cutbacks in imports, credit
availability and investment. A recent Bank report I/ which reviewed growth
prospects of the Egyptian economy concludes that exogenous resource transfers
are likely to gradually decline in the long term. In the absence of
corrective actions, this is likely to lead to a decline in average GDP growth
rate, higher inflation and rapid devaluation of the pound in the free market.
The same report demonstrates that, in order to maintain a high GDP growth rate
over the next two decades, Egypt will need to achieve a substantial structural
transformation of its economy through a large investment effort, directed at
export expansion and viable import substitution, in order to generate net
foreign exchange earnings to replace the declining exogenous
I/ Arab Republic of Egypt: Issues of Trade Strategy and Investment Planning,
IBRD Report No. 4163-EGT, January 14, 1983.



- 2 -
resources. This structural transformation will require non-oil exports to
grow in real tenns at twice the projected GDP growth rate i.e. 13.5Z for the
base case estimate in the report. Since the export prospects of the
agricultural sector in the longer term appear uncertain, the brunt of this
export effort is likely to fall on manufacturing industry. Thus efforts to
expand manufactured exports assume central importance in Egypt's long-term
growth strategy.
Rationale for the Proposed Project
Constraints to Expansion of Exports
1.03     The disappointing perfornance of manufactured exports stems from a
number of serious constraints in the Egyptian environment that need to be
corrected in order for export growth prospects to improve. These include:
(a) The bias against exports arising from the complex protection
regime which makes domestic sales of non-controlled products
generally much more profitable than exports. Moreover, price
controls, subsidies and tariffs combine to provide widely varying
levels of effective protection to products and to producers of
the same product depending on their status - public, private or
Law 43 - thus preventing efficient investment allocation.
(b) Complex and time-consuming export and import control procedures,
which are a deterrent to all but the most dedicated exporters.
Manufacturers and traders currently lack an export mentality
which is vital to the success of a national export development
effort.
(c) Ineffective institutions to promote exports. Egypt needs an
effective export development agency to ensure that export
policies and incentives are designed and administered properly;
that the supply of export quality products is increased through a
variety of technical assistance measures; and that exports are
adequately promoted through market research, marketing
assistance, etc..
(d) Most private exporters do not have easy access to export finance
on liberal terms; existing financial institutions are
conservative and follow time-consuming lending procedures.
Exporters are thus at a disadivantage compared to their
counterparts in competing countries.
(e) Public sector industries which account for the largest share of
manufactured exports (90% in 1981/82) are in some instances
constrained by Government regulations to supply the domestic
market; also many public sector firms have inadequate technical
and marketing capability to compete in export markets and most
suffer from a variety of internal inefficiencies.



- 3 -
(f) Capacity constraints seriously inhibit export capability in many
product areas where Egypt has comparative advantage.
(g) Infrastructural deficiencies, e.g. inadequate or costly
facilities, particularly in communication, storage and
transport; lack of adequate technical services, e.g. consulting
engineering, packaging, sub-contracting, etc. place Egyptian
exporters at a competitive disadvantage. Emerging shortages of
skilled workers and managers is a serious problem.
1.04     If Egypt is to achieve the high export growth targets required to
successfully bring about the structural transformation of its economy alluded
to earlier, actions are needed on several fronts. These cover reform of the
exchange rate and protection systems as well as reforms in other areas,
removal of various procedural constraints, strengthening of the institutional
framework for administering export incentives and for carrying out promotional
activities, improving access to export finance and ameliorating
infrastructural and other resource constraints. A recent Bank report 1/,
referred to hereafter as the Export Development Report, formulates a medium
term strategy for export development covering policy and institutional reforms
and other supportive measures needed to foster growth of manufactured
exports. Bank staff have discussed this strategy with the Government and
reached consensus on the needed reforms. In fact, the Government has already
taken steps to implement some of the important policy and institutional
reforms mentioned above and is studying reform of other issues. The
implementation of additional reforms will be taken up within the framework of
an agreed action plan (para 5.02).
Recent Government Actions to Foster Exports
1.05     Until recently, an important source of bias against exports was the
appreciating real effective exchange rate for export transactions. Exporters
had to pay the higher free market rate for importing inputs but were only able
to convert export proceeds at the much lower commercial pool rate. In April
1983, this problem was corrected by allowing all exporters to convert ixport
proceeds (with the exception of a few agricultural products) at the free
market rate. A high level Cabinet Committee on Export Development (CED) has
been established to coordinate policy decisions on export issues and provide
the political thrust to the export effort. The CED has already initiated
actions to simplify export and import procedures including streamlining of the
Temporary Admission Procedure (TAP) which allows exporters to import inputs
for export production on a duty-free basis and is considering additional
incentives for exports. A new Export Development Bank (EDB) has been
established to promote and finance exporters and the Egyptian Export Promotion
Centre (EEPC) is being reorganized and strengthened as well as being given
wider functions through a new decree. Lastly, a new Law (97 of 1983) has been
passed for reforming the management and organization of public firms which may
I/ Egypt; A Program for the Development of Manufactured Exports, Report No.
4580-ECT, December 15, 1983.



- 4 -
improve efficiency and export competitiveness of these firms. These actions
which reflect the Government'sa serious commitment to export development have
laid a solid foundation for further policy and institutional reforms required
to stimulate export growth over the eighties. They need to be complemented by
a medium term investment program for developing efficient export-oriented
industries. The proposed project aims at assisting the Government to
implement further policy and institutional reforms and to expand productive
capacity in efficient export-oriented industries.



- 5 -
II.  The Industrial Sector:  Structural Characteristics and Trends,
Comparative Advantage and Recent Export Performance
A. Structural Characteristics and Trends
2.01     ahe industrial sector (excluding petroleum) is a large and
fast-growing sector, but its share of GDP declined from 17% in 1975 to 14% in
1981/82 because of the extremely rapid growth of the petroleum and service
sectors. In 1981/82, industry employed 1.38 million persons or about 12% of
total employment, and generated 9% of total commodity exports. The shares of
consumer goods, intermediate goods and engineering (capital) goods in
industrial value added were 51%, 36% and 13% respectively. During the past
decade, the only change in the sector's structure has been a small increase
from 11% to 13% in the share of the engineering industries.
2.02     As a consequence of the nationalizations of the early 1960s, the
sector is dominated by about 250 mostly large public companies which currently
account for some 80% of total investment, 58% of total employment and 66% of
value added in industry. The private sector consists of about 250,000
artisanal establishments employing less than ten workers and some 7,500
establishments employing 10 or more workers. Ninety per cent of this group
employ less than 50 workers. Egypt's basic industries (iron and steel,
aluminum, fertilizer, cotton yarn, heavy engineering, cement) are all in the
public sector. Activities that can be carried out by small-scale firms -
garments, food products, leather products, cosmetics, wooden furniture, and
fabricated metal products - are the important areas of private activity.
About 75% of private firms are located in Cairo and Alexandria.
2.03     Between 1975-81/82 industrial output grew at an annual average rate
of 8.4%, somewhat less than the average GDP growth rate (10.1%). The greater
availability of foreign exchange and relaxation of bureaucratic controls that
followed the adoption of the Open Door Policy undoubtedly contributed to
revitalizing the private sector, which achieved an annual average growth rate
of 12% during this period. As a result, the private sector increased its
share of total manufacturing output from 25% in 1974 to 34% in 1981/82.
Although not as striking as that of the private sector, the performance of
public industry during this period has also been favorable, with an annual
average growth rate of curput of nearly 7% resulting mainly from improved
capacity utilization and labor productivity. Despite the high growth rate of
physical output, however, the financial performance of public companies has
been poor. This is essentially the result of insufficient authority over
prices, wages and employment decisions at the enterprise level, as these rest
mostly with the government, although there are also serious inefficiencies and
management problems.
2.04     Since nationalization, Egypt has pursued an inward-oriented
development strategy and new investments have tended to be capital- and
energy-intensive. Between 1977-81/82, industrial investment (manufacturing
and mining) increased from LE 561 million to LE 1,483 million comprising about
26.5% of total investment during the period. Private sector investment in
industry, which was at negligible levels in 1974, substantially increased in



- 6 -
this period and by 1981/82 constituted 20% of total industrial investment.
Much of the new industrial investment by the private sector has occurred under
the auspices of Law 43. Textiles, food, chemicals, metals and engineering
industries represent the main areas of Law 43 investment. Most public
investment has been directed at rehabilitation and expansion of existing
plants.   Nevertheless, many sectors, e.g. fertilizers, cement, etc. need
urgent restructuring to introduce new technologies, improve energy utilization
and reduce production costs. The new Five Year Development Plan
(1982/83-1986/87) allocates a large share of total investment to the
industrial sector. Industrial output is projected to grow at 9.5% p.a. over
the Plan period. Industrial investment is estimated at LE 8.6 billion or
nearly 25% of total investment, a slight reduction from its share in the
previous plan. The private sector's share of total industrial investment
during the Plan period is estimated at LE 1.8 billion or 21%. A major
departure from the previnltz Plan is a new emphasis on exports with the Plan
assigning export targets in important industries - cement, textiles,
fertilizer and metals.
B. Economic Efficiency and Comparative Advantage
2.05     Analyzing economic efficiency of industry in Egypt is particularly
complex because of the highly distorted domestic price structure of products
in relation to their international values because of tariffs, price controls,
exchange rate distortions, and implicit subsidies. In maliy industries,
financial rates of return diverge significantly from economic rates of
return. To overcome these difficulties, the Domestic Resource Cost Ratio (DRC
ratio) has been used here to analyze economic efficiency and comparative
advantage. Analysis of DRC ratios for a broad range of industrial products
indicates that, at present, only a limited number of product groups can claim
to be economically efficient activities. I/ These include high count cotton
yarn, garments from knit and woven cotton fabrics, a range of food products,
finished leather and leather products, and a limited number of engineering
goods. However, there are additional products in the same industries as well
as other industries - nitrogenous fertilizer and paper products - which are
close to being efficient at world prices and could become competitive with
some upgrading. Unless faced with market restrictions, Egyptian firms should
be able to expand exports of these products substantially over the next few
years, particularly if product quality and production efficiency are improved
and adequate export promotion and marketing programs are implemented.
2.06     However, a large segement of the intermediate and capital goods
industries lack competitiveness at present. These include ceramic and glass
products iron and steel, aluminum, transport equipment (buses, cars, trucks,
bicycles), basic chemicals, synthetic fibers, phosphate fertilizers, and basic
pulp and paper. Lack of competitiveness in many product areas stems from
uneconomically-sized plants employing obsolete technology (phosphate
fertilizer, vehicles), inadequate domestic raw material availability (pulp and
1/ IBRD Report No. 4163-EGT (cf.).



paper), high cost of intermediate inputs (bicycles, consumer electronics,
blended fabrics) and, more generally, inadequate technical and management
skills. Some of these industries could become efficient over time through
appropriate restructuring and modern technology inputs, e.g. engineering
products, basic chemicals, etc. and thus be in a position to compete in export
markets in the longer term. Annex I provides a more detailed analysis of
economic efficiency of major industries. Annex 1, Table 1 provides a
classification of product groups by degree of comparative advantage.
C. Recent Export Performance and Medium Term Prospects
2.07     Manufactured exports 1/ in 1981/82 totalled $540 million.  In value
terms, about half consists of yarn and fabrics, and a third of basic metals
(principally aluminum but some steel); garments comprise about 5%, essential
oils about 3%, and the balance is distributed among a number of products
(medical and pharmaceutical products, metal manufactures, footwear, furniture,
travel goods) each with 1% or less. Public enterprises account for nearly 90%
of total exports - principally cotton yarn and fabrics, and aluminum. In
1981/82, manufactured exports comprised only 7% of manufactured output and
manufactured value added derived from direct exports was only 3% of total
manufactured value added, among the lowest of the large, semi-industrialized
countries.
2.08     Since the liberalization of the economy in 1974, the performance of
Egyptian manufactured exports, by any standard can only be judged as
disappointing. In constant dollars, the level of manufactured exports has
declined in every year but one since 1975 despite the fact that during this
period Egypt's economy grew rapidly. Since 1976, Egypt has been able to
increase hard currency exports -- exports to Western Europe grew from 5% to
more than a third -- but they failed to offset the sharp decline in exports to
bilateral or clearing account currency areas whose share fell from 80% to
little more than a third. Middle East and North African markets have a
relatively small share, about 13%, which contrasts with other Meciterranean
countries such as Turkey which have more successfully exploited the recent
growth of demand in these areas.
2.09     During this period, the product structure of exports has become more
concentrated. In the two product groups - textiles (mostly yarn) and basic
metals (mostly aluminum) which have been growing and now account for nearly
85% of exports, long-term expansion prospects appear uncertain. In cotton
yarn, a traditional export, Egypt's competitive advantage has been eroding and
the outlook is limited by trade barriers, whereas aluminum exports are
uneconomic if energy inputs are priced at world prices. By contrast, the
group of export products which have been declining - leather, wood products,
clothing, perfumes, engineering products - are products where Egypt has
comparative advantage. They are labor-intensive; for some -- clothing,
leather products, metal products, and aromatic oils - local inputs of export
1/ Excluding petroleum and petroleum products.



- 8 -
quality are available. Other than transport equipment and a portion of
clothing, most of the products in this group are produced in the private
sector. Further details on Egyptian export performance is given in the Export
Development Report, Chapter II, Section C (paras 2.24-2.28).
Medium Term Export Outlook
2.10     The Five Year Plan forecast manufactured exports to grow by 12% p.a.
during 1982/83-1986/87. For textile/garment products, the export growth rate
of 7.1% forecast in the Plan is attainable although external trade constraints
are a limitation. Export targets for fertilizer and cement may be difficult
to attain due to market and supply factors. However, there are several
products not included in the Plan export forecast -- leather goods, wooden
furniture, pharmaceuticals, engineering products -- which can be efficiently
exported. Preliminary indications are that recent changes in policies
(particularly the free market exchange rate on exports) have already
significantly stimulated exports of some items (yarn, cotton knit garments,
pharmaceuticals). Given sustained policy and institutional improvements,
Egypt should be able to attain the 12Z growth target in the Plan.
2.11     Although the review of manufactured exports performance presents a
picture that is not particularly encouraging, it indicates the directions
along which Egypt will need to move to reverse the decline. Egypt needs to
shift its economic policies to support expansion of exports in areas where is
has comparative advantage. The private sector which is involved in these
product areas has to be stimulated to contribute to export growth in a much
bigger way. Thus, how soon and to what extent Egypt implements measures to
create the appropriate policy and institutional framework to foster exports is
the most important factor which will determine the export performance in the
medium term.



III. The Pblicy and Institutional Framework for Export Development
A. Exchange Rate and Trade Policy Regime
(i) The Exchange Rate System and Exports
3.01     The exchange rate system has been one of the most important sources
of bias against exports in the Egyptian economy. There are currently three
different explicit exchange rates operating in Egypt, the official (Central
Bank) rate, the commercial bank rate and the own exchange or free market
rate. The official rate applies to the Central Bank pool and is set at 70
piastres per dollar. The Central Bank pool is supplied by receipts from Suez
Canal dues, petroleum and some agricultural exports (cotton and rice).
Central Bank funds are used primarily to service external government debt and
to finance imports of basic supply commodities. However, large proportion of
investment goods imports linked to official aid inflows are also recorded at
this exchange rate.  The commercial bank rate applies to the commercial bank
pool which is supplied mainly by cash remittances from Egyptians working
abroad, and tourism receipts. Commercial pool receipts are used to finance
the imports of public sector companies that are included in the foreign
exchange budget but not financed by the Central Bank pool. The commercial
bank rate was institutionalized as a separate rate in August 1981 at 84
piastres to the dollar and it has remained at this level, although many
transactions, including remittance transfers, some tourism receipts and import
payments, now occur at a rate between 108 and 116 piastres to the dollar. Ihe
"free" or own exchange market is supplied by remittances from Egyptians
working abroad, foreign investment within the Law 43 framework, some tourist
receipts and non-oil merchandise exports. Private individuals and companies
can buy foreign exchange at this freely floating rate in order to finance
imports or to invest in dollar-denominated assets. Growing private sector
import demand, an inflation rate that is higher than that of its trading
partner countries and some spill-over in demand from the public sector, have
exerted upward pressures on the own exchange rate. Over the past year, the
free market rate has fluctuated between 110 and 125 piastres to the dollar, or
about 30 to 40( higher than the commercial bank rate.
3.02     Until April 1983, the growing divergence between the commercial pool
rate and the free market rates created serious problems for exporters, who
were allowed to retain only 25X of the proceeds of export sales for a maximum
period of six months for importing raw material components, etc., and were
required to convert the balance at the commercial pool exchange rate.  Since
private exporters could obtain additional foreign exchange only from the "free
market" for imports, this policy amounted to a substantial financial penalty
against exports.
3.03     In April 1983 the Government announced its decision to provide
exporters with the "free market" exchange rate which has restored the real
effective exchange rate to the 1978/79 level. Moreover, by equalizing the
exchange rate for imports and exports and removing retention limits, it has
eliminated the financial penalty. This action has corrected the bias against
exports arising from an overvalued exchange rate. However, since the Free
Market is a fragmented market, maintainance of realistic rates in the long run



- 10 -
cannot be assured. Reform of the exchange rate system is still needed which
is being addressed by the IMF in its discussions with the Government.
(ii) The Protection Regime
3.04     Protection in Egypt results from the combination of (a) a cascading
tariff structure with nominal rates well over 100% for consumer goods; (b)
product specific indirect taxes on production and consumption; (c) an
elaborate system of price controls and subsidies; (d) import licensing rules
used by the Import Rationalization Committee (IRC) to regulate imports of some
135 different products if local supply is deemed adequate; and (e) various
other administrative practices such as the requirement of advance deposits on
imports of as much as 100% of c.i.f. value. The actual effective protection
rate (ERP) which this complex system creates varies widely between different
product groups and sectors. Even within a product group, e.g. clothing, there
is substantial variation in effective protection between particular products.
The level of protection afforded to a producer of a particular product also
varies by whether or not the firm belongs to the public sector, the private or
the Law 43 sector since price controls and subsidies impact on these groups
differently, with the ERP tending to be higher on the whole for privat-
sector and Law 43 firms.
3.05     A fundamental reform of the protection system is needed, despite
reforms carried out in 1980 which simplified the customs tariff structure to
some extent. The reform should aim at elimination of non-tariff barriers,
substantial reduction of effective protection rates, harmonization across
product groups/sub-sectors and unification of incentives between the private
and public sectors. However, reform of the protection system must go
hand-in-hand with reform of the price control and subsidy system and
simplification of import and export procedures since effective protection in
many instances results from a combination of all these elements.
3.06     The Bank has been addressing these issues in its economic policy
dialogue with the Government. So far this dialogue has focussed on a few key
issues, such as energy pricing, where price distortions are particularly
severe. In order to sensitize the Government to the need for reduction and
harmonization of effective protection rates to foster long term export growth,
agreement was reached during negotiations that the Policy and Incentives
Division of EEPC would undertake, by the end of 1986, a detailed review to
rationalize the protection regime with technical assistance from the Project
(para 5.35(c)) and present the findings to the Bank and Government. The Bank
would then engage in a dialogue with the Government on the next steps. For
the purposes of export development, the impact of the protective environment
can be ameliorated in the interim through reform of import/export procedures
and of specific mechanisms that enable exporting firms to have access to
needed inputs at world prices (see below).
(iii) Exporter Access to Imported Inputs
3.07     Egypt has two systems to provide exporters inputs at world prices.
The first and most widely used, is the Temporary Admission Procedure (TAP), a
scheme under which an import is allowed temporary entry, free of duty, without



- 11 -
the requirement of obtaining an import license from the IRC. The importer is
required to post a Bank guarantee which until mid-1983 covered not only the
value of the customs duty but the c.i.f. value of the product as well.
Because of complex procedures within Customs, and the requirement of technical
checking by the Industrial Control Board of the Ministry of Industry,
exporters have experienced delays both in importing needed inputs and in
obtaining cancellation of the required guarantee. However, as a result of the
Bank's dialogue with the Government in the context of the Export Development
Report, significant improvements have recently been made. In mid-1983, the
Government reduced the guarantee requirement to cover the value of the duty
only. Under the aegis of the Customs Sub-committee of the CED, all activities
and associated record-keeping for the TAP is being consolidated into a single
department within Customs with attendant streamlining of procedures. While
these simplifications should enable exporters to use the TAP much more easily
than in the past, both EEPC and Customs recognize the need for a thorough
evaluation of present procedures and documentation requirements of the TAP and
of import and export procedures generally, for which technical assistance will
be provided under the Project (para 5.35(b)).
3.08     The second scheme for obtaining access to imported inputs is a dUty
drawback scheme which requires the exporting firm to import the required
inputs under normal procedures, pay the customs tariff and other taxes, and
have the import duty refunded provided export occurs within one year of
importing the raw materials. It has a number of serious problems. First, it
covers only custom duties and not supplementary taxes nor the costs of advance
deposits required for opening L/Cs. Second, since normal importing procedures
are used, firms face the possibility that an import licence may be denied by
the IRC if the product is on the list of locally produced products and local
supply is deamed adequate (see para 3.04). Third, the administration is
cumbersome since every claim related to a specific export transaction must be
supported by evidence of duty payments, and importers must establish a clear
link between exports and the prior payments on inputs used in that trans-
action.
3.09     Correcting the above-mentioned problems will require a change in the
legal framework and the import licensing rules, and therefore might not be
quickly implemented. Nevertheless, a revamped, more automatic scheme, as
suggested in the Export Development Report could be an important complement to
the Temporary Admissions Procedure as in the case where imported inputs are
purchased locally. The Government has given EEPC the responsibility for
designing such a scheme. EEPC has begun preliminary work but the detailed
technical work scheduled to begin in the second half of 1984, will require the
assistance of outside consultants for which provision has been made in the
Project (para 5.35(a)). The preliminary work will provide an evaluation of
alternatives as well as the detailed data needed for developing an improved
duty drawback scheme. At negotiations, understanding was reached that this
study together with the study on simplification of the TAP and export
procedures (para 3.07) would be completed by July 1, 1985. The results would
be discussed thereafter with the Bank and agreement reached on their
implementation.



- 12 -
(iv) Investment Incentives for Export Performance
3.10     In recent years, the private sector has received considerable
stimulus to invest as a result of protected markets, the strong growth of
domestic demand and the removal of many procedural constraints under Law 43.
To add to these inducements, direct, firm-level incentives are available to
investors under Law 43, administered by the General Agency for Investments
(GAFI). For "inland" projects", which comprise 82% of investments under Law
43 they are limited, consisting primarily of a five-year tax holiday.
Additional limited incentives include partial exemptions or deferrals of
duties on capital goods and exemptions from minor general income taxes and
commercial taxes. In contrast, free zone enterprises have been granted
virtually complete exemption from taxes; privileged use of industrial estates
established by the government; and the right to sell on the domestic market
with import duty reductions linked to the local content of sales.
3.11     Law 43 emphasizes exports as an important objective for inland as
well as general and special free zone projects, but export activities have not
been sing'led out for special incentives in the past. Promises to export have
not been enforced. Consequently, inland projects exported only US$17 million
in 1982, which is less than one-tenth of the promised level. Free zone
projects, which were to have produced almost exclusively for export markets,
were reportedly registering only 20% of their sales in export markets in 1982.
3.12     Under Law 43 GAFI is authorized to extend the tax holiday beyond 5
years for a further three year period but does not routinely do so.
Investment in export-oriented activities would be stimulated if export-
oriented projects (e.g. projects willing to give a commitment to directly
export 30% of production by the end of five years) are automatically eligible
for the full eight years of tax holiday; but the amount of tax holiday beyond
five years would be conditional on a firm actually meeting its export
commitments.  These measures can be implemented within the Law 43 framework by
means of a resolution of the GAFI Board, ratified by Government. At
negotiations, agreement was reached that by July 1, 1985 Government would
provide additional incentives to export-oriented projects based on proposals
to be discussed and agreed with the Bank prior to that date.
B. Institutional Framework for Export Development
(i) Export Promotion Institutions
3.13     At present, the Ministry of Economy has three agencies which are
mainly concerned with export promotion - the Commercial Representation
Department (CRD), the General Organization for Exhibitions and Fairs (GOIEF),
and the Egyptian Export Promotion Centre (EEPC). The CRD has been mainly
concerned with trade problems and bilateral economic relations and not much
with trade promotion. GOIEF has a dual role: to manage the Cairo
International Trade Fair complex (which has little bearing upon Egypt's own
export promotion needs), and to organize Egypt's participation in trade fairs
abroad. The EEPC, which was established in 1979 to promote Egypt's exports
has generally been ineffective until recently. It has the potential for
becoming the principal institution for export development in Egypt, but,



- 13 -
before this institution can play an effective role in developing Egyptian
exports, it will need to be strengthened through a major program of training
and technical assistance. The project proposes to finance a comprehensive
program of technical assistance for EEPC (see paras 5.14-5.25).
3.14     Experience in other developing countries, however, indicates that an
export development program which requires basic changes in economic policies
cannot be mounted without a strong political commitment at the highest level
of government. The commitment of the Government must be channelled through a
high-level political body which would provide effective leadership and
guidance to the national export effort. Recognizing this need, in July 1983,
the Cabinet established an interministerial Committee on Export Development
(CED) with the Minister of Finance as Chairman and the Minister of Economy as
coordinator. Ihe EEPC has been designated to act as the secretariat to the
CED. The CED has been coordinating all high level decision-making on matters
relating to export development and has already initiated reforms in a number
of areas. Thus the institutional framework for export development, with
appropriate strengthening of the EEPC as envisaged through the project, should
make an effective contribution to export development over the medium term.
(ii) The Financial Sector and its Role in Financing Exports
The Banking System
3.15     The structure of the Egyptian banking system has changed
significantly since 1975. Before then, there were four nationalized
commercial banks whose main function was to provide credit to the public
economic sector with each bank having responsibility for a specific
sub-sector. This system of sectoral specialization was abolished in 1975 and
the government-owned banks were given greater scope to put their dealings with
public sector entities on a more commercial basis. They have also greatly
expanded the scope of their activities with the private sector.
3.16     Since 1975, 50 new banks have been established under the Foreign
Investment Law of 1974. Not all of these banks are foreign-owned as the Law
also applies to companies that are wholly or partly Egyptian-owned. Some of
these banks are joint ventures formed by nationalized banks with foreign banks
and other partners. In addition, there are 21 branches of foreign banks
authorized to do business under the Foreign Investment Law. These branches
can only operate in foreign currencies and one of the branches (set up in the
Port Said free zone) can only deal with non-residents and free zone
companies.
3.17     There are also 4 specialized banks:  the Principal Bank for
Development and Agricultural Credit which finances the subsidized credit
programs of the agricultual cooperatives and acts as their fiscal agent; the
Development Industrial Bank (DIB) which extends loans in domestic and foreign
currencies for up to 15 years to finance the fixed and working capital
requirements of industrial enterprises in the public and private sectors; the
other two banks are real estate banks which provide mortgage credit of up to
30 years for housing and utilities, and also extend shorter-term financing
during construction.



- 14 -
Interest Rates
3.18     The Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) regulates interest rates on deposits
and loans in local currency for all financial institutions. Lending rates are
differentiated by activity and set in terms of the minimum and maximum rates
banks may charge in order to give the institutions some flexibility in
discriminating between borrowers.  Since 1975 there has been a substantial
increase in the interest rate structure for both deposits and loans,
reflecting the need to mobilize resources in the face of rising inflation.
Interest rates on local currency loans are now in the 13Z-16% range compared
to 7%-8% range in 1975. Similarly, the maximum rates obtainable on savings
and time deposits have risen substantially during this period: from 2.4X to
8.5% for savings deposits; from 3% to 11% for deposits of 12 months; and 13%
on deposits of 5 years. In addition, since 1977, interest earnings on bank
deposits are tax exempt. During this period the Central Bank discount rate
was adjusted seven times to reach 13% in 1982 as compared to 6% in 1975.
Local currency base interest rates are currently slightly negative but are
expected to become marginally positive in future compared to expected
inflation projected at 14% for 1984, 13% f or 1985, and 12% f or 1986.
3.19     Certain categories of loans are exceptions to the foregoing interest
rate structure. These include: short-term export loans (10-13%), Housing and
Reconstruction Bank loans (6%), and documentary credits for the importation of
subsidized goods. Since the profitability of lending to the export sector is
low (given the lower interest rate that can be charged), compared to general
commercial lending, commercial banks have little inducement to lend to
exporters. Consequently, many exporters can borrow funds only as trade credit
for which higher rates have to be paid (16%).
3.20     Interest rates on foreign exchange loans are not regulated by the
Central Bank and reflect the cost of these resources. Foreign exchange loans
provided by financial institutions (mostly short-term loans) generally carry
floating interest rates tied to the 6 month LIBOR plus a spread of between 1%
to 2%. Suppliers' credits carry rates varying from 9.0% to 10% per annum.
DIB's interest rate on foreign exchange loans is currently 15% with the
effective cost is around 17% because of compensating balance requirements.
Availability of Institutional Finance for Exports
3.21     In most successful exporting countries, financial institutions play a
key role in fostering exports by providing a range of financial facilities and
services that enable exporters to compete in international markets. This is
not the case in Egypt. Although there are a large number of financial
institutions, in actual practice, short-term export finance is extended
primarily by the four public sector commercial banks. Medium- and long-term
investment financing for export-oriented projects is provided primarily by the
Development Industrial Bank (DIB) and to a much lesser extent by a few joint
venture investment banks.



- 15 -
3.22     The bulk of manufactured exports (yarn, aluminum) is currently
generated by the public sector. Since public sector exports are channelled
through public sector trading companies, financing poses no major problems as
trade is conducted through well established commercial channels and standard
payment practices are followed. On the other hand, exporters of
non-traditional items, particularly those in the private sector, face
difficulties in obtaining adequate financing from banks for working capital
needs and in offering deferred credit to buyers abroad on competitive terms.
These problems have become accentuated in recent years, due to the
reorientation of trade towards western markets where competition on price and
credit terms is extremely keen. Unfortunately, no accurate statistics are
available on loans granted by banks to the export sector.
Role of Commercial Banks
3.23     Commercial banks generally follow conservative and time-consuming
lending practices with regard to financing exports. From discussions with
banks and exporters, it appears that a confirmed letter of credit (L/C) is
required for most export transactions. Exports against documents on payments,
documents on acceptance or consignment are not at all favoured by banks.
Consequently, only large/established exporters with confirmed letters of
credit are in a position to secure without difficulty pre--shipment finance to
the extent of about 50% to 60% of the value of the L/Cs. It is not apparent
why banks retain such a high margin. New and small exporters, with or without
L/Cs, experience considerable difficulty in obtaining bank loans. Although
from a financing bank's viewpoint, documentary credits are attractive since
they obviate the need for taking certain procedural formalities (e.g. credit
checks), it has become more difficult for exporters to get L/Cs established,
particularly from importers in developed countries. Not infrequently,
Egyptian exporters agree to bear all charges in connection with the opening of
L/Cs by importers just to secure orders. It is, therefore, imperative that
the banks in Egypt relax their procedures and agree to finance exporters on
the basis of their capability, and against firm orders or contracts of sale
without the backing of confirmed L/Cs. Moreover, exchange control regulations
require that sale proceeds of non-traditional exports are remitted to Egypt
within 90 days and in exceptional cases within 180 days. In some cases, these
rules inhibit exporters from competing effectively.
3.24     Since October 1983, the CBE has fixed the interest rate on export
loans between 10% and 13Z and left it to the discretion of banks to charge
rates lower than 13%. But in practice no bank will generally charge less than
13% which is also the discount rate of the CBE. Moreover, it appears that
banks very often do not charge the lower interest rate on advances to merchant
exporters, since several merchant exporters mentioned that their borrowings
were being treated as trade sector advances and therefore charged higher rates
of interest - the minimum being 16 per cent. The banking system seems geared
more towards financing import transactions than exports. Exporters are,
therefore, critical about the rigid and complex practices followed by banks in
financing export trade. They feel handicapped in the matter of banking
services compared to counterparts in competing countries. Although commercial
bankers express great interest in assisting the export sector, they also
indicate unwillingness to take any risks.



- 16 -
Proposed Program of Financial Services for Exporters
3.25     The Export Development Report, which reviewed the role of the banking
sector in financing exports recommends the introduction of standardized
pre-shipment and post-shipment financing schemes to ensure that exporters have
adequate finance at a reasonable cost. The pre-shipment scheme would cover
working capital needs in the interval between receipt of the export order and
shipment of goods; the post-shipment scheme would cover the financing need
between shipment of goods and receipt of payment. These schemes should be
adopted by commercial banks as guidelines for all their short-term export
financing transactions. To encourage commercial banks to use these schemes,
the Report recommends: (a) the introduction of an export credit guarantee
scheme to share the credit risk between the commercial bank and the
organization which will provide the guarantee; and (b) refinancing of export
loans made by commercial banks in case banks have temporary resource
constraints. Annex 2 provides a summary description of the proposed
pre-shipment and post-shipment finance schemes and the export credit guarantee
scheme. The Report also recommends that the guarantee and refinance functions
could be undertaken by a specialized financial institution established for
these purposes.
3.26     The above recommendations were discussed in detail with the Ministry
of Economy. As a result of these dicussions, in July 1983 the Government
enacted legislation establishing a new bank - the Egyptian Export Development
Bank (EDB) - to implement the guarantee and refinance schemes. To enable the
EDB to build up its institutional capability to implement these schemes, the
Project provides for a comprehensive program of technical assistance (paras
5.10-5.13). In addition, EDB will also act as an apex organization for
channelling Bank funds through selected financial intermediaries to finance
export-oriented projects under the Project. This would strengthen EDB's role
as an apex financial institution for the export sector. Details of EDB's
functions, policies, organization, staffing, procedures, etc. and role in the
proposed project are given in paras 4.02-4.14.



- 17 -
IV: Proposed Financial Intermediaries
4.01     This section appraises the four institutions which have been selected
as financial intermediaries in the proposed project. They comprise the
Egyptian Export Development Bank (EDB), the Development Industrial Bank (DIB),
Bank Misr (BM) and the National Bank for DevelopmenL (NBD). The EDB, which
has been recently established by Government to facilitate lending to the
export sector will act as an apex institution in channelling Bank funds to the
other three banks which will directly lend to export-oriented projects. The
EDB at a later stage may also directly lend to export-oriented projects.
A. The Export Development Bank
Institutional Aspects
4.02     Establishment and Legal Framework.  EDB was established as an
Egyptian Joint Stock Company under Law 95/1983 (see Project File Document No.
1, Item No. 1) by Presidential Decree on July 30, 1983. The Decree also
abolished the former National Bank for Imports and Exports and provided for
transfer of its assets after valuation etc. to shareholders. EDB's authorized
capital is fixed at LE 100 million, of which LE 50 million is already
subscribed. The subscribers are the National Investment Bank (LE 20 million)
and the four public sector commercial banks - National Bank of Egypt, Bank
Misr, Banque du Caire and Bank of Alexandria - LE 7.5 million each. As
provided in the Law, the subscribers have paid in 25% of the subscribed
amount, i.e. a total of LE 12.5 million, half of which is in foreign
currency. The remaining LE 37.5 million is to be paid-in over the next three
years, of which 5S% would be in ioreign currency.
4.03     Activities.  Law No. 95/1983 states EDB main purpose as being
"encouragement and development of Egyptian exports, as well as assistance in
creating an export sector in the spheres of agriculture, industry, commerce
and services", i.e. EDB has a major responsibility for export promotion and is
authorized to carry out all banking operations for the attainment of that
primary objective. Specifically, EDB is authorized to extend short- and
long-term loans in local and foreign currency to existing and proposed
export-oriented enterprises for working capital or investment, extend
guarantees on their behalf, and refinance loans extended to sucb enterprises
by other banks. EDB may also finance import requirements of exporters. Two
additional important functions entrusted to EDB are, firstly, issuance of
loans and guarantees to foreign banks and importers, and secondly, to
formulate and operate a scheme for insuring Egyptian exporters against
commercial and non-commercial risks, at both the pre- and post-shipment
stages. EDB is authorized to accept savings deposits, and issue bonds and
Certificates of Deposit. In addition, EDB is empowered to carry out
non-banking activities for the promotion of Egyptian exports, such as
undertaking market studies of foreign markets for Egyptian products,
dissemination of such studies among Egyptian exporters, and setting up an
information center for provision of statistics to prospective exporters. The
authority permitted to EDB under the Law appears to cover all essential areas
and provides an adequate basis for its functioning.



- 18 -
4.04      Policies and Operations.  In the short-term, EDB aims at encouraging
existing commerc ial banks to provide pre-shipment and post-shipment loans to
exporters by guaranteeing part of these loans rather than competing directly
for such business with existing banks.  EDB will, therefore, need to formulate
and implement an export credit guarantee scheme. Such a schieme, which is
described in detail in Annex 2, would reduce the lending risk of commercial
banks and thus enlarge access to credit, particularly for new exporters.  In
case of liquidity shortages, EDB plans to refinance pre-shipment and
post-shipment loans by commercial banks. At present, refinancing doex not
appear needed because of the adequate liquidity situation of commercial
banks. In operating the credit guarantee scheme, EDI plans to set aside part
of the guarantee fee in a reserve fund to cover potential losses (par. 4.12).
After operating the scheme for a year or so, EDB plans to review this policy
and decide whether other alternative policies are needed, e.g.
counter-guarantee from the CEE or setting up a special risk fund with
Government assistance.
4.05     In addition, EDB aims at, eventually, building up a project lending
capability to undertake project promotion, equity investment and term lending
activity, much like a DFC specialized in the financing of export-oriented
projects.  in the interim, it has agreed to establish an apex unit through
which Bank funds would be channelled to participating banks to be on-lent to
export-oriented projects. The role of the apex unit in project implementation
is described in para 6.05. EDB's management has proposed a draft
comprehensive policy statement, stating EDB's policies in relation to its
proposed activities over the next 2-3 years which is satisfactory in substance
(Project File Document 1, item No. 2). The policy statement covers priorities
for various banking activities, limits on equity investment and maximum
exposure to individual clients, policies for making provisions for likely
losses on loans, guarantees and investments, and profit allocation policies.
EDB's management has agreed to issue a policy statement, satisfactory to the
Bank, by November 1, 1984.
4.06     Board, Organization, Management and Staffing.  The Law provides that
EDB will have a board of directors with not lesc than nine members and not
more than thirteen members. The chairman and vice-chairman are to be
appointed by the Prime Minister upon the recommendation of the Minister of
Economy and Foreign Trade, and two of EDB's managers will also be appointed to
the board in a similar manner.  In addition, two other members are to be
appointed from among financial and economic experts by the Minister upon
recommendation of the shareholders and the rest to be nominated by
shareholding banks in proportion to their shareholdings. The term of the
chairman, vice-chairman and all directors is initially for five years and for
three-year thereafter. In conformity with the above provisions, nine persons,
including the chnioman. have been appointed to constitute the board. The
names and backgrounds of the present members are indicated in Annex 3, page
1.  Two more nominations will be made in the near future from among the
exporting community in Egypt.
4.07     The chairman has prepared an organization structure for EDB in
consultation with Bank staff (see Annex 3, page 2). The proposed organization



- 19 -
structure provides for three major operating divisions - Banking, Project
Finance and Promotion, and Export Credit Guarantee and Insurance. Each
division will have its own general manager reporting to the chairman. Support
functions, market intelligence and research departments will be directly
supervised by the chairman for the present. The position of vice chairman has
not been filled as yet. As EDB is yet to becDme operational, its organization
structure is necessarily tentativ; at present. However, the proposed
structure is appropriate for EDB's activities f'r the next 2-3 years. The
apex function to be undertaken under the proposed project will be handled by
the Project Finance and Promotion Department.
4.08     Management and Staff.  The management of EDB consists, at present, of
the chairman, who has substantial experience in banking and finance. The
chairman is in the process of recruiting a general manager for EDB's Banking
Division and has already recruited a highly qualified manager for EDB's
Project Finance and Promotion Division. At present, EDB has only a skeleton
staff of six persons excluding the chairman. The chairman plans to hire a
total of 28 persons including three general managers by December 1984. The
salary scales approved by EDB's board (to be confirmed by the Prime Minister)
are substantially higher than those of public sector banks but slightly lower
than the highest scale prevalent among joint venture banks in Egypt. Thus,
EDB's salary scales are competitive and it should be able to attract staff of
adequate experience and calibre to fill the key positions. The recruitment of
adequate professional staff (2 financial analysts and 1 industrial economist)
for the apex unit will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Accounting and Management Information Systems
4.09     Since EDB's activities will include commercial banking, project
financing and specialized export finance activities, its accounting, control
and management information systems will have to be specially designed to
support these functions. EDB's management has already invited proposals from
four accounting, auditing and management consulting firms in Egypt to design
and introduce these systems. It is proposed to finance the consultants'
charges for designing and implementing the accounting system as part of the
technical assistance to be provided to EDB through the Project (para 4.14).
The consultants will be hired according to Bank guidelines. It is expected
that the design of the system will be completed by September 30, 1984 and
implemented by December 31, 1984. As the accounting and management
information systems will be designed to meet the needs of EDB's entire range
of activities, the entire system need not be implemented at the same time. A
core system to enable EDB to keep accounts of the proposed loan under its apex
responsibilities will have to be operational prior to loan effectiveness.
Implementation of this core system is a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.10     Audit.  Law 95/1983 provides that EDB's accounts will be audited by
two auditors to be nominated by the Central Accounting Agency of the
Government. The accounts of all public sector banks in Egypt are audited by
the above agency. However, agreement was reached during negotiations that
EDB's accounts will be audited as per Bank guidelines by independent external
auditors to be appointed by the general assembly of shareholders. An audit



- 20 -
report along the lines of the Bank's illustrative form of audit report for
DFCs would be prepared and submitted to the Bank within nine months from the
end of each financial year.
Operational and Financial Aspects
4.11     Projected Operations.  As relatively few export-oriented projects
have been promoted in the recent past in Egypt, there is little reliable data
on which projections can be based. It is also difficult to estimate the
demand for EDB's commercial banking services as accurate data on commercial
bank loans to exporters are unavailable. Projections of operations prepared
for the first five years of EDB's operations (1985-1989), presented in Annex
3, page 3, are, therefore, necessarily tentative. Based on the assessment of
loan demand from export-oriented projects (para 5.09), it is assumed that
direct term financing of export oriented projects by EDB, to commence in 1985,
will grow at an average rate of 20X per year and reach LE 20.6 million
equivalent in approvals by 1989. Short-term export credit operations are
expected to grow more slowly due to competition from commercial banks in this
line of business. On the other hand EDB's credit guarantee activities are
projected to grow much more rapidly from a starting base of LE 19 million in
approvals in 1985 to LE 44 million in 1989. Finally, EDB forecasts its equity
investments in export-oriented ventures to grow to LE 20 million by 1989. The
projected level of operations is based upon very conservative business
expectations. It is likely that actual business levels will be higher than
projected in view of recent policy changes which are expected to stimulate
exports.
4.12     Financial Projections.  Projected income statements, cash flows and
balance sheets for 1984-89 are presented in Annex 3, pages 4, 5 and 6. These
projections are also subject to the same qualifications as operational
projections, and actual results may vary. With regard to the guarantee
scheme, it is assumed that EDB will charge banks a guarantee fee of 2% of
which 1.5% will be allocated to a risk fund to cover potential losses and the
remaining 0.5% will cover administrative expenses. The guarantee fee will be
reviewed after the first year of operation and revised in the light of actual
experience. EDB will clearly become a financially viable institution and will
cover its operational costs during its first full operating year (1985). Net
profit before taxes will reach 9.4% of average equity by 1989. Although this
is a level lower than that normally achieved by commercial banks in Egypt, it
is consistent with the profitability level of institutions undertaking similar
promotional activities which tend not to be as profitable. EDB's profits
would be higher if it accepted low cost demand deposits and entered into
profitable import financing activities like commercial banks. EDB's
debt/equity ratio will be very low, long-term debt being less than 10% of
equity as EDB will be operating largely out of its equity funds up to 1988.
EDB's liquidity will be high throughout the projected period as its remaining
capital will be paid in over the next three years. Overall, thie financial
projections establish that EDB will have a sound financial position and viable
operations over the first five years of its operations.



- 21 -
4.13     Resource Needs.  EDB will have only modest needs for borrowed
resources over the projected period as its large equity base will provide
adequate funds. EDB proposes to supplement its resources as needed by
accepting deposits from corporate sources and by inter-bank borrowing to fund
its short-term lending activities. Its short-term borrowing over the 5-year
period is expected to total LE 30 million, of which LE 14 million equivalent
will be in foreign currency. Long-term borrowings from institutional sources
including the World Bank will reach only LE 6 million equivalent, of which
only LE 2 million will be in foreign currency. EDB will maintain a match in
maturities of borrowings and loans and will make equity investments only out
of its own equity. Its total debt/equity ratio will remain below 1:1 even in
1989.
4.14     Technical Assistance Needs.  As a new institution which will engage
in a new type of financial activity in Egypt, EDB will require a comprehensive
and structured program of technical assistance to develop its institutional
capability to undertake these functions. Initially, the technical assistance
program will provide advisory and consulting services to set up operating
policies, procedures and systems which will be funded, in part, under a
project preparation facility. After commencement of operations, EDB will be
provided a management advisor for a period of one year to help implement the
export credit guarantee and insurance scheme, as well as short-term
specialists to train staff of EDB and commercial banks on various aspects of
export finance operations. Terms of reference for these three advisors are
given in the Project File (Document No. 1, Item No. 3). The total foreign
cost of the technical assistance program is estimated at $520,000. The scope
and content of the technical assistance program is described in paras. 5.10 to
5.13.
B. Development Industrial Bank (DIE) V/
Institutional Aspects
4.15     DIB was established in 1975, and its paid-in capital of LE 34 million
(US$ 40 million equivalent) is held entirely by the Government. DIB is
subject to supervision by the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE). DIB operates from
its head office in Cairo and three branches, one each in Cairo, Alexandria and
Tanta. Two more branches are planned to be opened during 1984, at Port Said
and the city of 10th of Ramadan. All of DIB's foreign currency term lending
operations are conducted from its head office. Loans in local currency up to
LE 200,000 for terms up to 5 years are approved in the branches.
4.16     After a reorganization in mid-1983, DIB now has 17 departments at the
head office which report to 11 General Managers who are also members of a
management committee which meets every week under the chairmanship of the Vice
Chairman to deal with all management issues involving more than one
department. The Board of Directors consists of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman,
1/ A detailed analysis of DIB is given in the Project File, Document No. 2.



- 22 -
three General Managers and two outside members. DIB also has an advisory
committee to the Board consisting of five prominent persons with wide
experience in private industry and finance. The Board meets about once a
month or more often as necessary to decide on loan applications for amounts
exceeding LE 500,000 or its equivalent in the case of a foreign currency
loan. All cases submitted to the Board are screened by a loan committee
consisting of the Vice-Chairman and the four General Managers.4.17
As of December 31, 1983 DIB had a total of 484 employees including 262
professional staff. DIB is governed by public sector salary scales which
makes it difficult to recruit top quality experienced staff. Recently,
however, DIB has doubled the annual bonuses in order to reduce staff
turnover. DIB has brought about improvements in staff quality by continuous
training of staff with the help of advisors and consultants, and by sending
appraisal officers to training courses abroad. DIB has agreed to train at
least five professional staff through the training program on project
appraisal to be organized under this project (para 5.11(c)).
4.18     DIB has a comprehensive policy statement, acceptable to the Bank,
which covers areas like maximum exposure limits to a single borrower, limits
on maximum equity holdings, collateral policies and subsectoral policies.
There have been considerable improvements in DIB's project appraisal work as a
result of internal training courses conducted by advisors and attendance at
courses conducted by various institutions, including EDI. Continuous input
has also been provided by Bank staff during supervision missions and during
review of subloans submitted by DIB. DIB's project supervision is essentially
focussed on the financial aspects as the large number of loans in DIB's
portfolio (about 5,000 at the end of 1983) makes periodic contact with all
borrowers very difficult. To help DIB formulate an adequate supervisory
mechanism, a management consultant funded by the European Economic Cormunity
(EEC) will prepare a system of supervision appropriate to DIB's loan portfolio.
Bank-Financed Operations
4.19     DIB has so far received two IDA credits (Credit No. 412 - $15 million
and Credit No. 576 - $25 million) and three loans (Loan No. 1533 - $40
million, Loan No. 1804 - $50 million and Loan No. 2074 - $120 million). DIB
is also one of the banks in Egypt responsible for channelling loans to
agroindustrial projects (Credit No. 988 and Loan No. 2243). DIB also has
access to almost all official fund sources including USAID, KFW, AFDB, EIB and
OPEC Special Funds. The OED of the Bank prepared a report on DIB's
performance under the first two credits. Its conclusions were that after
initial difficulties, DIB has used Bank funds effectively, and the objectives
of the projects have been met to a substantial extent. DIB performance since
then with regard to loan utilization has improved significantly.
Financial ard Operational Performance
4.20     Annex 4, pages 1 and 2 provide DIB's income statements and balance
sheets for 1980-83. DIB has consistently performed well as a financial
institution and has maintained a sound financial structure despite a very high
rate of growth of operations. DIB's total assets have grown at an average



- 23 -
annual rate of about 40 percent during the 1979-1983 period. As of the end of
fiscal year 1983, DIB's loan portfolio amounted to LE 316 million having more
than doubled in two years. The portfolio is well diversified among industrial
subsectors and has now matured; nearly 70 percent of the loans are in
repayment stage. Total arrears of principal amounted to LE 8.0 million or 2.5
percent of loan portfolio, which is acceptable. Potential defaults are well
covered by provisions for doubtful loans and reserves which totalled LE 25.5
million. DIB has made adequate profits, before-tax return on average equity
ranging between 13 percent and 30 percent per annum during 1979-1983. Return
on total assets has been adequate at between 2.6 percent and 3.2 percent.
Projected Operations and Resource Requirements
4.21     DIB's operational projections for 1984-1987 assume an annual average
increase of 10 percent per annum in nominal terms in both foreign and local
currency loan approvals. The rate of increase assumed, which is lower than
the historical rate, is considered appropriate in view of the need to
consolidate operations, to train staff and to maintain the quality of the
portfolio. Local currency loan approvals are expected to rise from LE 55.5
million in 1983184 to LE 76.8 million in 1986/87.  Foreign currency loan
approvals are projected to increase from LE 78 million ($91 million) to LE 104
million ($124 million). DIB's major source of local currency resources is a
loan discounting facility provided by CBE. DIB has also begun to increase
borrowing from other commercial banks as inter-bank deposit rates are lower
than the CBE rate.
4.22     Foreign currency resources made available to DIB totalled LE 313
million ($371 million) by June 1983, of which $267 million has been provided
by the Bank/IDA. During FY84-85 to FY86/87 DIB expects to commit foreign
currency loans totalling LE 276 million ($329 million). It expects to meet
these resource needs by borrowing mainly from the Bank, KFW, EIB and AfDB.
Bank funds likely to become available to DIB over the period FY84-85 to
FY86/87 total about $248 million including $30 million under the Export
Industries Development Project.
Projected Profitability and Financial Position
4.23     Annex 4, pages 3 to 5 give DIB's projected income statements, balance
sheets and cash flow statements for 1984-87. DIB is expected to maintain
adequate profitability with profit before taxes rising from LE 12.7 million in
1984 to LE 22 million in 1987, and return on equity ranging between 26 percent
and 31 percent. Appropriations to reserves will be made equal to 25 percent
of profits, and 75 percent of remaining will be paid to CBE as dividends.
Provisions for doubtful debts and reserves will be maintained at 6 percent of
outstanding portfolio. DIB's financial structure will continue to be sound
with the debt/equity ratio being below the 8:1 limit at least until mid 1984.
Under the proposed SMI project, the debt/equity ratio is being increased to
9:1. At that stage a further increase in equity would be required and has
been planned for. Given the record of strong government support for DIB in
the past, it is reasonable to assume that further equity contributions will be
available.



- 24 -
C. National Bank for Development (NBD) 1/
4.24     Establishment and Ownership.  NBD was established in 1980 as a
private commercial bank according to the Arab and Foreign Investment Law No.
43. Its authorized capital is LE 50 million. The main shareholders are a
variety of public institutions, including the top four public sector
commercial banks. NBD's objectives are broadly defined and include both
commercial and development finance activities. NBD is also one of the
participating banks in the Second Agroindustries Project (Loan 2243-EGT) of
the Bank Group.
4.25     Organization, Management and Staff.  The 12 members of NBD's Board of
Directors are well known executives with considerable banking and business
experience. NBD has also been able to attract a qualified and experienced
group of managers and staff. Its Head Office and six branches are located in
the Cairo area, but it also has 15 subsidiary regional banks in the
governorates. Total staff was 534 in January 1984, of which 284 were in the
branches. The Head Office is organized into three departments:
Administration, Commercial Banking, and Investment. The Investment department
is divided into two units, Projects and Follow-up respectively, each headed by
a deputy general manager who reports directly to NBD's managing director. The
distribution of work between the projects and follow-up units could be better
balanced. The Projects unit is in charge of promotion, appraisal and also
supervision of long-term lending, whereas the Follow-up unit is in charge of
supervision of equity investments. Furthermore, the Investment department has
only 19 professionals (14 in projects and 5 in follow-up) which will be
insufficient in future to properly handle the increasing workload. To address
this problem, NBD's management has agreed to implement a plan satisfactory to
the Bank for reorganizing and staffing the Investment department for which a
draft has already been prepared.
4.26     Policies and Procedures.  NBD was established as one of the few banks
in Egypt to undertake both commercial and development finance activities, but
a formal policy statement has never been prepared. Operational procedures
have evolved gradually arising from the experience of staff members coming
from other banks. NBD's project financing started through equity investments
in a variety of companies. NBD controls the companies at their initial stages
but its ultimate goal is the resale of the shares it holds. NBD's involvement
in long-term lending started by participating in syndicated loans and
guaranteeing suppliers credits, and later on by granting long-term loans under
the Second Agroindustries Bank Project. NBD's contribution to regional
development has been mainly done by the creation and collaboration with the
regional banks. In order to better highlight NBD's policies and priorities,
NBD's management has agreed to adopt a policy statement satisfactory to the
Bank by March 31, 1985.
4.27     Appraisal and Supervision of Projects.  The quality of project
appraisal has improved since the bank started operations, especially in food
1/ A more detailed analysis of NDB is presented in the Project File, Document
No. 3.



- 25 -
and agroindustries projects. However, further strengthening will be needed,
in particular for appraisal of export oriented projects on which the bank has
had little previous experience. The current project will provide for training
opportunities in this area and NDB will train at least 5 professional staff
through this program in 1984. Regarding supervision of projects, a system of
regular visits and reports to management on each project has been developed.
In addition, the design and implementation of a more comprehensive system for
monitoring and evaluation of projects is being financed under the Second
Agroindustries Project.
4.28     Operational Performance.  In only three years, NBD has been very
successful in attracting deposits from the general public (LE 184 million at
the end of 1983) and increasing the volume of commercial banking operations
(LE 122 million of loans and advances at the end of 1983) mainly for industry
and trade. NBD's record in development finance activities include: equity
investments of LE 20.6 million in 21 companies; LE 21 million of
participations in 14 long-term syndicated loans; participations in 20
guarantee operations linked to suppliers credits; and six sub-projects already
approved for financing under the Agroindustries Loan. In addition, NBD owns
50% of the LE 2 million capital of each of 15 regional banks recently
established in the governorates outside Cairo. NBD takes overall
responsibility for these banks, provides them with technical assistance and
participates in some of their projects.
4.29     Financial Pbsition and Perfonmance.  NBD's condensed balance sheets
and income statements for 1981-83 are presented in Annex 5, pages 1 and 2.
NBD's total assets had grown to LE 497 million at December 31, 1983 and its
liquidity was very high. liquid assets represented 62% of total assets, and
the loans to deposits ratio was only 70%. The total liabilities, including
contingent liabilities, to equity ratio was 16.5, rather low for a commercial
bank. NBD's profits before taxes have been high, at about 25% of equity each
year. NBD's portfolio is young and therefore difficult to assess after only
three years of operations. However, NBD has been prudent in accruing interest
due and making adequate provisions for bad debts (LE 3.5 million or 2.5% of
the loan portfolio at the end of 1983). NBD's financial statements are
audited by a reputable firm of chartered accountants, Z. and H. Hassan and
Co., according to generally accepted auditing standards.
4.30     Operational and Financial Projections.  NBD's projected balance
sheets and income statements for 1984-87 are presented in Annex 5, page 3.
NBD expects to consolidate and slow down its rate of growth during the next
four years. Total assets will increase 15X per year to LE 873 million in
1987. The loans and investments portfolio will grow 26% per year to about LE
450 million, and about LE 90 million ($110 million equivalent ) of long-term
foreign currency resources would have to be raised by 1987. The loans to
deposits ratio will remain at about 70%, and total liabilities to equity will
increase from 9.8 in 1983 to 10.6 in 1987. Profit before taxes will increase
21% per year to LE 28 million at the end of the same period.



- 26 -
D. Bank Misr 1/
4.31     Establishment and Ownership.  Bank Misr was established in 1920 as a
private commercial bank but was nationalized in the 1950's. Currently, it is
the second largest commercial bank in Egypt and its paid-in capital of LE 20
million is held by the Central Bank. In 1976 an Investment Center (IC) was
created within the bank for developing its project finance activities. Since
then, Bank Misr has participated in three Bank Group projects (Fruit and
Vegetable Development Project, Loan 1276-EGT, and First and Second
Agroindustries Projects, Cr. 988-EGT and Loan 2243-EGT) and is also expected
to participate in the new Construction Industry Project.
4.32     Organization, Management and Staff.  The General Assembly of Bank
Misr is formed by the Board of Directors of the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE)
which appoints the seven members of Bank Misr's Board. Bank Misr is orF inized
into 11 departments. It has a network of about 300 branches in the country
and a total of about 13,000 employees. All development finance activities are
channelled through the IC, headed by a General Manager who reports directly to
the Managing Director. The IC has a total staff of 70 of which 52 are
professionals, who are organized in small teams specialized by particular
sectors. Separate teams are in charge of appraisal and supervision of
projects. Under the proposed loan, sub-projects would be handled by different
teams according to the sector involved, but the IC is also planning to set-up
a small unit for coordination of overall relationships with the Bank. The
turnover among professional staff of the IC has been recently very high (11%
in 1982 and 19% in 1983) mainly due to competition from private banks, but it
is now reviewing its policy of promotions in order to retain its most valuable
employees. It was agreed during negotiations that by June 30, 1985 at least
seven of the nine vacant positions of key professional staff will be filled
with suitably qualified personnel.
4.33     Policies and Procedures.  A high level committee of ten General
Managers, including the General Manager of the IC, was recently created for
preparing a 5-year strategic plan for Bank Misr including the IC. Its
priorities are efficiency improvements, personnel and training policies,
development of international banking and new types of services, and the
orientation of Bank Misr's development finance activities. Bank Misr has
agreed to adopt by June 30, 1985 a policy statement satisfactory to the Bank
covering the IC's development finance activities.
4.34     Appraisal and Supervision of Projects.  Nearly all project appraisal
and supervision work are centralized in the IC except for small loans in food
and agroindustries which are handled under its supervision by Bank Misr's
branches. Except in the food and agro-industries sectors, staff of the IC
lack technical skills. However, the IC relies heavily on consultants in other
areas for doing project appraisal, which is a satisfactory arrangement. Only
a limited number of staff have expertise in economic analysis. Staff need to
1/ A more detailed analysis of Bank Misr is presented in the Project File -
Document No. 4.



- 27 -
be trained in the special requirements of appraising export-oriented projects,
particularly in the analysis of economic and marketing aspects. The project
will include a training program for this purpose (para 5.11(c)), and
participation in the program of at least six staff from the IC has been agreed
upon. Regarding project supervision, visits to projects and reports to
management are prepared regularly, but they tend to focus mainly on cost
overruns and debt repayments. However, a foreign consultant financed under
the Second Agroindustries Project is working on the design and implementation
of a system for monitoring and evaluation of projects which should address
this need.
4.35     Operational Performance.  Bank Misr had a deposits base of LE 3.1
billion and a portfolio of loans, advances and bills discounted of LE 2.6
billion as of June 30, 1983. Since the creation of the IC in 1976 Bank Misr
has made equity investments in 47 companies in various sectors amounting to LE
208 million. It frequently owns a large share in these companies and is
deeply involved during project implementation. Bank Misr provides long-term
loans, in foreign and local currencies, mainly to its affiliated companies and
to a lesser extent to other food and agroindustries projects. It has
participated in a small number of large syndicated loans. Long-term loan
approvals in each of the last three years were averaged LE 100 million . The
portfolio of loans to food and agroindustries projects in 225 companies was LE
91 million as of June 30, 1983 but more than 90% of this amount was
concentrated in 13 affiliated companies.
4.36     Financial Position and Performance.  Bank Misr's balance sheets and
income statements for 1980-83 are presented in Annex 6, pages 1 and 2. Bank
Misr's total assets have increased at an average annual rate of 25% during the
last three years to LE 4.1 billion (24% in foreign currencies, and 33Z in
liquid assets) as of June 30, 1983. The loans to deposits ratio was 84% and
the debt to equity ratio of 42.6 was high as in all public sector banks in
Egypt, but provisions had accumulated to 1.8 times total equity. Bank Misr's
profitability is high, and profits before taxes in 1983 were LE 80 million (2%
of average total assets and 91% of average equity). The quality of Bank
Misr's portfolio seems to be sound and 60% is represented by government
institutions and public sector companies. Regarding loans to food and
agroindustries, only 7 out of 225 companies had arrears of more than six
months which amounted to LE 1.7 million or 0.8% of the outstanding portfolio
(outstanding loans affected by these arrears were LE 16.6 million).
Furthermore, Bank Misr's provisions mainly for bad debt amount to 6.6Z of its
total loans portfolio. Bank Misr's financial statement are audited by two
independent auditors, both members of the Egyptian Society of Accountants and
Auditors and audit reports have been issued without qualifications.
4.37     Operational and Financial Projections.  Bank Misr's projected balance
sheets and income statements for 1984-88 are presented in Annex 6, page 3.
Bank Misr expects to consolidate its operations and to grow at a lower rate
over the next five years than in the recent past. Loans are projected to
increase by 16% per year, deposits by 14%, and investments by 10%. Long-term
loan approvals will increase from LE 115 million in 1983 to LE 240 million in
1988 (including about $70 million equivalent in foreign currency), and



- 28 -
projects will be selected according to the government's policies and
priorities as specified in the Five Year Plan. The liquidity of Bank Misr is
expected to remain high and the liabilities to equity ratio will improve
slightly to 38.6 in 1988. Profit before taxes will grow steadily at about 13Z
per year, from LE 80 million in 1983 to LE 146 million in 1988.



- 29 -
V. The Project
A. Bank Strategy and Relation to the Sector
5.01     This project has emerged from the growing awareness of both the
Government and the Bank of the importance of non-oil industrial exports in
Egypt's future economic growth and the urgent need to address a variety of
serious constraints to export growth at the policy, administrative,
institutional, and industrial levels (para 1.03). Bank strategy to foster
export development is based on two reports completed in 1983 (Egypt: Issues
of Trade Strategy and Investment Planning (4163-EGT) and Egypt: A Program for
the Development of Manufactured Exports (4580-EGT)). The strategy ca'ls for a
long-term, multi-faceted effort to assist the Government in a overcoming these
constraints. The main elements are: (i) correcting the bias against exports
arising from the protection regime which makes domestic sales more profitable
than exports; (ii) simplifying the complex and time-consuming export and
import control procedures, which deter exporters, contribute to the bias
against exports and impede the development of an export mentality; (iii)
establishing effective institutions to encourage and develop exports; (iv)
providing finance, particularly to the private sector, to encourage
investments in export-oriented projects in industries whereas Egypt has
comparative advantage; (v) improving the system of export finance;
(vi) undertaking reforms to enhance the potential of the public sector to
export (such companies currently are responsible for nearly 90% of
manufactured exports) by improving their technical and marketing capability to
compete in export markets and their ability to operate on a more business-like
basis; and (vii) overcoming infrastructural deficiencies in such areas as
communications, storage, packaging, transport, and technical services, which
place Egyptian exporters at a competitive disadvantage. Besides the proposed
project, which deals directly with export development, the Bank has assisted
the Government in expanding port capacity, a significant bottlebeck in the
past, at Alexandria and El Dekheila (Loans 1239 and 2280) and intends to
continue this effort at Port Caid in a project scheduled for FY85. The Bank
is also assisting the Government in a review, just being launched, of public
sector enterprises, in the context of the new public sector reform law, with a
view to improving their long term efficiency.
5.02     During discussions of the above-mentioned two reports and in the
context of project preparation, the Government and Bank reached a consensus on
the proposed export development strategy and the measures needed to improve
the export environment. In fact, the Government has already taken significant
actions to implement this strategy (para 1.05). They include: providing a
higher effective exchange rate for exports (para 3.03); creation of the
Committee for Export Development (CED), a cabinet-level group, to coordinate
policy decisions on export issues and mobilize political support for the
export effort (para 3.14); improvement of export/import procedures which give
exporters access to imported inputs at world prices (paras 3.07-3.09);
establishment of the Export Development Bank (EDB) to provide needed export
finance (para 3.26), and reorganization of the Egyptian Export Promotion
Centre (EEPC) to enable it to become a major focal point for export
promotion. The scope and complexity of the proposed policy and institutional



- 30 -
reforms imply that considerable time will be needed to implement them. The
proposed project is thus conceived to be the first in a series of programmed
assistance to the export sector to help the Government carry through with the
policy and institutional reforms already begun and to help develop efficient
export-oriented industries. More specifically, agreement has been reached on
an action program which specifies the policy and institutional reforms that
would be implemented during the course of project implementation as well as
studies for actions to be taken in future (see Table 1).
5.03     The objectives of the proposed Project are:
(a) to expand production capacity in export-oriented industries with
comparative advantage, particularly where private firms are
operating;
(b) to improve export competitiveness of firms in industries with
comparative advantage through appropriate technical assistance
and investment inputs;
Cc) to assist the Government in implementing further reforms in the
policy and institutional framework related to export development
as covered by the Action Program.
Cd) to build up effective institutions to develop and promote
Egyptian manufactured exports;
Ce) to assist the Egyptian Export Development Bank (EDB) to introduce
appropriate credit guarantee and insurance schemes in order to
improve the availability of export finance (pre-shipment and
post-shipment loans).
(f) to strengthen the project appraisal capability of EDB and
participating banks.
B. Project Description
5.04     The project consists of the following four components and activities
to be undertaken within the framework of the Action Program which are briefly
mentioned below and discussed in detail in subsequent paragraphs. Loan
allocations for each component are indicated in parentheses.
Ci) Financing of Export Oriented Projects ($117.96 million):
Providing finance for a portion of the fixed investment and
permanent working capital needs of export oriented projects,
which would be channeled through an apex unit in the Export
Development Bank (EDB) and on-lent by participating banks (PBs).



Table I
EGYPT
Action Progra, and Related Activities for improvement of Policy/inatitutional/Incentive
Environment for Manufactured Export Development
1SsUE/PROBLEH                             PROGRESS UNDER EXPORT PROJECT                                        FUTURE ACTIONS
Coupleted During               Proposed During
PREPARATION                INPLEIHNTATION
A.  MACRO-POLICY ENVIRONFENT AND FINANCIAL
INCENTIVES
Excharge Rate Refonr  - Multiple E-change  . Exporters (except certain . Possible unification of
rates;  aymte      a a major source of bias    agricultural exporters)       exchange rate for all
atainst exports.  Exporters penalized by    allowed to convert 1002          price sensitive
usinx free market for Imports;                 of export earnings at         transactions under aeisi
comercial pool rate for exports.               free market rate.             of  WHF.
Protection Re ime.  Effective protection  . Bank/ministry of Industry . CED will review vith               Update ERP study and extend  . Reviev of Covernment
hiTh for private sector and varies widely   study on trade strategy          assistance of EEPC (see       coverage.                        Plan on extent and
across sectors, within sectors and             circulated to Egyptian        below) the Protection                                          timing of tariff
hetween public, private and Law 43 firms    Government.  Analyzes            System and review                                              reform.
creating bias against exports, and vrong    levelq, variations of            findings with Bank                                           . Reduce and gradually    @
Investment signals.  Reform difficult          effective protection          (12/86).                                                       eliminate quantative
because of complexity and social               rates.                                                                                       reattictions to
sensitivity.   ias due prisarily to:                                                                                                        extent not covered
high casceding tariff structure;  price                                                                                                     in duty drawback
controls and subsidies affecting                                                                                                            reform (see below).
principally internediete products and                                                                                                     . Implement tariff
certain consumer goods; and import                                                                                                          reforM.
licensing and related procedures (see
belov) vhich act as 321.ntitative                                          . Dank dialogue on energy       G Goverrment commitment to     . Implement program to
restrictions.                                                                price policy vhere price    eliminate price                    eliminate price
distortion is                 controls/subsidies except        controls and
particularly severe.          for selected consimer            subsidies.
products.
Costly and cumbersome proced%res for                                         Conduct study to simplify . Continuation of procedure
isports and exports.                                                         isport/export procedures.   simplification.
Discuss results with
Dank, Covt., comment on
plan of implementation by
7/85.
Implement plan.



ISSII!/Pll03L0                             115nocass UNDEXR30   PIOJIC?                                           JuTU   ACTIONS
Cmpleted During                Proposed During
PIZPALtATION                IMPLEIEVTATION
Aces  to ifyuts at world prices for           . major refom  of TAP. Mi)
exporters through Temporary Admissicns          elimination of
Procedure (TAP) and Duty Drawback Scheme    requiremnt for bank
is ineffective because schses. are costly   guarantee of product
and cuuberoame.  Duty drawback access           value;
restricted by import licensina.
(ii) proposal developed   . Implement proposal to
to centraliae customs         centralize custems
adminiatratfen of TAP in    administration of TAP.
single department.
. Conduct study to develop . Ispleweat agreed plan (may
Improved duty drawback        begin earlier) os duty
scheme.  Study vill           drawback scebe  or
include reviev of import    appropriate alternative
licensing as applies to       (including, as appropriate,
duty dravback.  Agree         reform of import licensing).
on implontation by
12/85.
Invetment Incentives.  No explicit              Agreesent reached vich       . Implement agrement by
investm`nt Incentives given to                  GArl that *xport-criented   means of board resolution
export-orlented projectt,                       projects vould be              of CAll, ratified by
automtically eligible         Coverment by 6/85.
for 8 year income tax
holiday with actual grant                                                                                                *
of holiday after first
fiva years conditional on
actually esporting 302 of
product ion.
Technical Assistance tncentives               . Areemnt that Covernment . Set up organisation and   . Replenialieat of FMd, if
lrport.rs are hesitant to make technical    will finAnce SL0 million   procedures for Fund, and    successful.
assistance expenditures to identify and         Fund to finance one-half    launbh.
sepand export smakets and improve               the costs of qualifying    . Evaluate criteria
capability in serving them because of           technical assistance           operations. procedubes of
perceived high coats of mostly foreign          expenditures  managed by    Fund and modify as
consultants and uncertainty regardinqg          1PC according to agreed    needed.  Identify
benefits.                                       guid 'ines.                    poeaible sources for
replenishtent of fund if
successful.
INStITUtIONAL PUANEVOEK
Need for top-level political body to            m Hinisterial Coeittee on
provide leadership. policy guidance mnd         gxport Developent (CIED)
overall coordination to national export         create4 bith 9 cabinet
development effort, with arrareemnta for   einste&s chaired by Kin.
effective staff and technical support .         Finace. coordinator
ministry of Itoemy.
proble  areas



I9SUE/PROlL~f                              PROGRESS UNDER EXPORT PROJECT                                          FUTURE ACTIONS
Completed During               Proposed During
PREPARATION                 IMPLEMENTATION
Agreement reached that         Implementation of EEPC
EEPC will create new          restructuring (see
Department, of Policy,        below).
Planning and Incentives
that will provide staff
support to CED.
Need for revitalized export development    , Government appointment of                                        Further expansion but in
ager:y with broader functions (policy           new management of EEPC.                                      selected areas where
support, advice, and monitoring;              .Decree promulgated                                            experience shows EEPC to be
coordination;  assistance in product            providing improved legal                                      providing useful
it.provement, as well as export                 basia for expanding and                                      cost-effective services.
promotion), upgraded staff and dynamic          restructuring EEPC.                                           Supporting technical
management.                                                                                                   assistance if needed.
. Agreement reached on plan . Implementation of
and financing of              initial program, staff-
expansion and                  ing build-up and train-
restructuring of EEPC.        ing with Bank-financed
technical assistance.
EXPORT FINANCE                                    Export Development Bank,    Implementation of initial   Develop and implement
Exports are being inhibited because of          set up to functio,. as         programs, staffing             schemes for medium/long term
inadequate pre-shipment and post-shipment   apex institution in                build-up and training         post-shipment finance and
financing resulting from conservative           accord with project            with Bank-financed             for export credit insurance
practices of banks especially with regard   recommendation.  Manager    technical assistance.                 in accord with assessed
to collateral requirements.  In longer          appointed and management                                     need.
term will need long-term post-shipment          team recruited.
financing to stimulate exports of capital   Agreement reached on
equipment, and consumer durables.               initial programs and
staffing and training
required.
Public Sector Efficiency                      . Project provides funds         Performance criteria for    Possible Bank project to
Public Sector, though primary source of         for investment and             public industrial firms        implement wider reforms in
manufactured exports (90%) is                   technical assistance to        being developed under          public firms.
inefficient, unresponsive to market             upgrade facilities,            separate Bank study to
forces, and suffers from a variety of           production management and   Improve management
management problems,  Investment is             marketing.  Systematic         efficiency.
misallocated due to distorted price             appraisal required by
signals,                                        rate of return criteria
will reduce resource
mis-allocation.



- 34 -
(ii)   Technical Assistance to the EDB ($0.52 million):  Financing of a
technical assistance program for EDB to help develop its
institutional capabilities to provide export credit guarantees
and insurance facilities and to establish an apex unit to channel
Bank funds.
(iii)   Technical Assistance to the Egyptian Export Promotion Center
(EEPC) ($3.20 million): Financing of a comprehensive 3 year
program of technical assistance to build up the EEPC as a viable
and effective export development and promotion agency.
(iv) Exporter Assistance Fund (EAF) ($3.0 million): Establishing a
Fund to be managed by the EEPC to finance technical assistance
needed by exporters in a variety of area3, e.g. for adapting
products to export market requirements.
Action Program Activities: The project will also assist in
(a) in the formulation of an improved duty drawback scheme;
(b) in the simplification of export-import procedures; and (c)
in assisting EEPC to review the protection regime. Funding for
these activities ($130,000) has been included in the technical
assistance programs for EEPC and EDB above.
Of the amounts allocated for technical assistance for EDB and EEPC US$565,000
has already been made available through a Project Preparation Advance which
would be financed under the proposed loan.
C. Financing Export Oriented Projects
Background
5.05     Egypt needs to shift its economic policies to support export
expansion in product areas where it has comparative advantage and correct
important institutional, procedural and administrative constraints, referred
to earlier, to maximize the impact of policy changes. While these actions
would create the right climate for export growth, they need to be supplemented
by additional actions at the industry level. Firstly, there is an urgent need
to increase production capacity in export industries since in the medium to
longer terms export growth will be inhibited by supply constraints.
Export-oriented projects have to be identified, promoted and implemented.
Secondly, even firms which are exporting at present ueed to improve production
and marketing efficiency and cost competitiveness. For example, even the best
practice textile mills are considerably below the productivity standards of
average plants in developed countries. There is a need to quickly introduce
new technologies (manufacturing methods, machinery, new designs, etc.) and
improved production management techniques. Improved energy utilization and
conservation offer significant opportunities to improve economic efficiency.
5.06     This component will finance the fixed investment and permanent
working capital needs of export-oriented projects in both the private and
public sectors; it will also finance technical assistance needed by firms as
part of the initial project investment in a variety of areas, e.g. for
training technicians, for improving purchase of technical know-how, etc.



- 35 -
Financing of technical assistance from this component is expected to be
availed mainly by public sector firms who have less inhibition about borrowing
for technical assistance compared to private firms. Also the technical
assistance needs of large public sector firms are likely to substantially
exceed the maximum amount of financing available through the Exporter
Assistance Fund (EAF) (paras 5.26-5.34). For both the above reasons, public
sector firms would not be eligible for financing from the EAF.
Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects
5.07     To be eligible for financing under the proposed loan all sub-projects
should meet the following criteria:
(i) Give a commitment to export, either directly or indirectly, 30%
of production attributable to the investment being financed,
within 5 years from start up of production for new projects, and
within 3 years for expansion or rehabilitation projects.
(ii)  Demonstrate an economic rate of return (ERR) of at least 12% if
the project investment is greater than LEO.8 million.
(iii)  Prepare a satisfactory export development plan (covering five
years for new projects and at least three years for expansion/
rehabilitation projects) which analyzes key factors affecting
the export potential, identifies actions that need to be taken
to improve export capability and develops a monitorable action
program to be implemented by the firm in order to meet the
export target.
The above criteria are broad-based to allow financing of a wide variety of
projects which directly or indirectly support expansion of exports. Projects
producing intermediate products that enter into production of final export
products (i.e. indirect exports) have been specifically included because
intermediate inputs of export quality are in short supply and have to be
imported. By financing them the proposed project would help increase the
value added of exports, particularly in non-traditional product areas. The
minimum level of export orientation (30%) has been selected on the basis that
this level of exports would have a significant impact on the firm's operations
(in forcing the firm to improve efficiency, product quality; upgrade marketing
skills; improve packaging facilities; etc.). A higher level of export
orientation may be appropriate as a screening device in countries where the
manufacturing sector has achieved a moderate level of export capability, which
is not the case in Egypt. The five year time horizon allowed to new projects
to achieve minimum export targets is realistic given the lack of experience in
exporting of most Egyptian entrepreneurs and the special problems in achieving
efficient operations from start up. Rehabilitation and modernization
projects, which concern operating plants, should face fewer start-up problems
and can devote more attention to exporting. A shorter time period, three
years, is therefore appropriate. Annex 7 elaborates on the eligibility
criteria and provides examples to illustrate their application.



- 36 -
5.08       The export development plan is viewed as a key element of appraisal
which would establish the export potential of the project and define an action
program to realize the export target. Annex 7, para 9 presents a check list
of items to be covered in a typical export development plan. Export
development plans for all sub-projects, irrespective of size, will be sent to
the Bank by the PBs for review. An indirectly exporting project would need to
demonstrate a verifiable link with the direct exporter in the export
development plan. Such projects should provide evidence that direct exporters
would consider the project's o'utput competitive with regard to price and
quality and would be prepared to purchase their products as inputs for export
production in sufficient quantity, to enable the project to meet its export
target. Appraisal reports should indicate that the PBs have verified this
evidence. To ensure that the export development plans are realistic and well
prepared, the Project provides training for the staff of PBs in the special
appraisal requirements of export-oriented projects (para 5.11(a)) as well as
technical assistance sources to which PBs can refer their clients (the EEPC,
and private consultants financed from the Exporter Assistance Fund) for
specialized help. To ensure that performance under the export development
plan is monitored, PBs will require sub-borrowers as part of the sub-loan
agreements, to provide annual reports on implementation of the action plan and
agreed export targets. These reports, providing firm by firm information,
will be reviewed by Bank supervision missions.
Estimated Loan Demand from Export Oriented Projects
5.09       Until recently, the policy environment in Egypt was biased against
export industries with the result that little investment in export-oriented
projects by the private sector had taken place. Recent important changes in
government policy (particularly the free market exchange rate on exports-para.
3.03), the new emphasis in the Five Year Plan on exports from public sector
enterprises and Government initiatives to strengthen export promotion
institutions are likely to stimulate substantial investment in export oriented
projects in the future. A Bank loan of about $118 million over a three year
commitment period (1985-87) appears justified based on planned investment in
export-oriented projects in the public sector and projected investment
approvals by GAFI in Law 43 projects. Some 11 projects in the Ministry of
Industry which are part of the Five Year Plan have been identified as
export-oriented projects and they will require about $70 million in foreign
exchange for investment.   They include the expansion of two plants for
processing fruits and vegetables ($8 million); modernization and expansion of
five plants plus a new one in textiles involving facilities for spinning,
weaving, dyeing and made up garments ($55 million); and the expansion of three
engineering projects ($7 million) which will produce consumer durables,
pressure vessels, and electrical equipment. In addition, a demand of about
$10 million is expected fom other public sector companies producing
pharmaceutical products and building materials for export. In the private
sector, there has been a resurgence of Law 43 investment approvals in 1983 and
a greater interest by GAFI in enforcing export commitments. Some 72 Law 43
manufacturing projects recently approved by GAFI are expected to export 39% of
total output or about LE 205 million per year. These projects comprise about
half of Law 43 industrial projects recently approved and are distributed as



- 37 -
follows: 20 in leather, cosmetics, perfumes and other chemical products, 11
in food industries, 11 in building materials, 8 in textiles, 8 in engineering,
7 in metal products, 4 in furniture and wood products, and 3 in medicines and
pharmaceuticals and are indicative of the type of export-oriented projects
being established under Law 43. For the three years 1984-86, industrial
project investment approvals under Law 43 are projected at about LE 1 billion
(based on 1983 approval levels), of which at least 25% can be conservatively
expected to qualify for financing under the loan, which implies a minimum loan
demand in foreign exchange of $150 million from this source. 1/ Moreover,
since the loan will finance indirect export oriented projects, e.g.
manufacture of intexmediate goods, packaging material and containers, etc.,
substantial loan demand from this group can be expected. Finally, the
participating banks have indicated that they do not envision any difficulty in
utilizing the proposed loans and are willing to bear the commitment fees for
their part of the loan allocations.
D. Technical Assistance to the Egyptian Export Development Bank (EDB)
5.10       EDB's role in the field of export finance, major functions,
organization structure, staffing, financial position and prospects, etc. have
been presented in Chapter IV. As a new institution entering a specialized
line of financial activity, EDB requires external assistance to develop sound
operating policies, procedures and documentation and to train its own staff as
well as those of commercial banks with which it will transact its guarantee
and refinance business.
5.11       The project will finance a structured prograr of technical
assistance for the EDB to meet the above-mentioned objectives. It will
consist of the following elements:
(a) Advisory Assistance: (i) an advisor to the Banking Department
for six months to develop policies and procedures and provide
on-the-job training to staff; (ii) an advisor to the Credit
Guarantee and Insurance Department for six months to develop
policies and procedures and provide on-the-job training to
staff; (iii) an advisor to the Credit Guarantee and insurance
Department for one year to follow up on the work of the policy
advisor and help implement the scheme and provide training.
Detailed job descriptions for each advisor are given in the
Project File (Document No. 1, Item No. 2).
(b) Training Programs for EDB Staff
The EDB will need to provide training for its staff in its
operations. External experts will be provided to design,
organize and teach the courses and to train EDB's own training
staff, who will be expected to take over the training activity
by the end of three years. The following types and number of
1/ The foreign exchange component of these projects are estimated at 60% of
total in"estment valued at LE 250 million.



- 38 -
training courses are envisioned over a three year period (1985-87);
Export Procedures and Documentation (for exporters - 6 courses of one
week's duration); Export Credit Guarantee and Insurance Facilities
(for staff of EDB and other banks - 6 courses of two weeks'
duration); Export Financing (for staff of EDB and banks - 5 courses
of two weeks); and Export Finance and Support Services (for senior
bankers - 6 courses of one day duration).
(c)  Training Program in Project Appraisal
The project will finance the foreign exchange costs of a training
program to be held in 1984 for the appraisal staff of EDB's apex unit
and participating banks, focusing on problems of export projects.
EDB will sponsor the course and bear the foreign costs (para 5.12).
PBs will be charged appropriate fees by EDB to cover both the local
and foreign costs. The course will be designed, and implemented by
the Institute of National Planning (INP), Cairo, who have
participated in similar training courses with the Bank's Economic
Development Institute (EDI). About 20-25 appraisal staff will be
trained in a course of about six weeks duration in 1984. EDB will
organize a similar course with the help of INP for the appraisal
staff of the PBs during 1985.
Cd)  Consulting Assistance for Accounting and Management Information
Systems
EDB will be provided specialized consulting services to set up its
accounting systems for supporting the apex financing unit functions
for the Bank loan and for the other export refinance, guarantee and
insurance activities.
(e)  Miscellaneous - office equipment and supplies.
5.12     The estimated cost of the T.A. program is as follows:
Advisory Assistance                                    $240,000
Advisory Assistance for Training Programs
and Training Supplies                                 $120,000
Consultancy Services for Accounting
Systems                                               $125,000
Office Equipment and Supplies                           $10,000
Contingency                                            $25,000
$520,000
5.13     EDB will receive the funds for the technical assistance program as a
grant from the Government. About $300,000 of the above will be incurred
between July 1 to December, 1984 (twelve months of advisory assistance;
consultancy services for accounting system; office equipment; and
consultants for the training program on project appraisal) which will be
financed at the Government's request under a PPF (See Project File, Document



- 39 -
No. 5, item No. 7). EDB proposes to sub-contract the execution of the T.A.
program to an experienced consulting firm or international agency and will
select the consultants according to Bank guidelines.
E. Assistance to the Egyptian Export Promotion Centre (EEPC)
Introduction
5.14     The recommendation to provide technical assistance to the EEPC has
emerged from a review of the effectiveness of the institutional framework for
export promotion undertaken by the Bank in November 1982 with assistance from
the International Trade Centre (ITC) 1/. This review confirmed that the EEPC
had been ineffective in promoting exports due to inadequate leadership, lack
of private sector involvement, a narrow concern only with "downstream"
marketing and promotional activities, and difficulty in recruiting and
retaining capable professional staff due to inadequate budgets. A revamped
EEPC could greatly contribute in the long term to the expansion of Egyptian
exports as a lead export agency such as PROEXPO in Colombia, or the Export
Development Board in Sri Lanka. Broadly, the report recommended that EEPC
should act as a focal point, coordinator, and catalyst for export promotion
activities; provide information and technical services to the exporting
community in appropriate areas; and assist the Government in developing more
appropriate policies and procedures needed to improve the export climate, and
in monitoring their effectiveness.
Prerequisites for EEPC Restructuring
5.15     The report made clear, however, that there were a number of
prerequisites for the EEPC to function effectively requiring urgent Government
action. Highest priority was for a top-level political body to provide
leadership, policy guidance and overall coordination to the national export
development effort under which a revamped EEPC could function. Also needed
was an appropriate legal basis for EEPC. The Presidential decree, No. 475 of
1979, on the basis of which EEPC was founded provided for only part-time
management, and did not appear to give EEPC a leading 'focal' point role. The
EEPC would also require staff expansion and upgrading and a new organization
to reflect the enlarged functions recommended. To implement the proposed
reorganization and expanded work program a major program of technical
assistance would need to be designed supplemented by an adequate local
currency budget.
Recent Government Actions
5.16     The Government has acted decisively to create the environment needed
for an effective EEPC. A dynamic new director was appointed in early 1983.
Also, in mid-1983 a Ministerial Committee on Export Development (CED) was
created with nine cabinet ministers as members, with the Minister of Finance
as chairman, and the Minister of Economy, who has made a strong personal
commitment to export expansion, as the coordinator. The CED has established
working groups for export planning, taxes and duties on exports, export
l/ Fxport Development Report, Chapter IV.



- 40 -
procedures and regulations. These groups have already begun to make
improvements in the export environment (see para. 3.07). A revised
Presidential decree has been drafted which the Government intends to
promulgate in the near future. The draft decree, which is an acceptable basis
for a restructured EEPC provides for enlarged private sector representation on
EEPC's Board. Promulgation of the revised Presidential decree is a condition
of loan signature.
5.17     In coordination with the ITC and the new Director of EEPC, the
mission developed a strategy and a work program for EEPC over the next three
years which includes detailed recommendations regarding organization,
staffing, technical and financial assistance that wotild be needed to implement
the work program (Project File, Document No. 5, Item No. 1). Agreement has
been reached with EEPC and the Government on the technical assistance that
EEPC would need to implement this work program.
EEPC Program and Related Technical Assistance
5.18     EEPC proposes specific export development programs along the lines
discussed below. In addition it will require general organizational support
(para 5.20).  The technical assistance to support this program is summarized
in Table 2.
Export Development Program
(a) Product and market development. This is the primary area of EEPC
activity. In this area, EEPC proposes to work with a core group of
firms in selected industries with export potential to enhance the
supply of exportable products and to help the firms find and
penetrate markets. This program would involve identifying
bottlenecks and constraints on the supply side, helping firms to
develop programs to penetrate markets, and identifying and
facilitating the use of experts and consultants in all phases of the
program. Five priority product groups in the following industries --
garments, furniture, food products, leather, and electrical machinery
-- have been identified and it is expected that a core group of about
75 firms would be assisted during this period. In addition to work
with specific firms, the product and market development activities
would include general promotional effort (including collaboration
with GOIEF in exhibitions), and organizing sales missions to
different market areas.
Related Technical Assistence. An adviser will be needed initially to
help set up this activity whose TOR is given in the Project File,
Document No. 5, Item No. 2. The main requirement, however, is for
short-term consultants with various product and disciplinary
specialities to assist EEPC in working with individual firms. The
program also includes study tours and orientation for EEPC staff and
participation of EEPC staff as well as exporters in market surveys
and sales missions.



Table 2
EEPC Technical Assistance Program
Associated Training Abroad                                      Total Cost
Program Item                      Consultant Advisor  Se.vices                          Study Tours               Equipment 6 Documentation          ($000)
Type o  ActivitCo                                Type of Activity        Cost    Type of Activity    Cost
(1000)                                       ($o0o)                        (*000)
A.  EXPOW! DSVEWPHEWT PROGRAM H        Advisor to assist head of                             Study tours and
(a)  Product and Market           PHD department to set up                               orientation for
Development (PHD)            dept., formulate and                                   hentd of PHD and
launch work program.                                  for product
. Specialized short-term           870                  division chiefs.        320                                         1190
consultants to firms thru
PHD dept. for product                                  Participation af
improvement, product                                  PHD staff and
adaptation and marketing.                              selected
Consulting services for                                exporters ir.
sales missions.                                       market surve7s
and sales
missions in
selecttd target
markets.
(b)  Specialized Support        . Consultant, on                    60                   Study tours for        70                                            130
Services                     transport-related aspects                              training of EEPC
of exports to study                                    staff in
bottlenecks, make                                      specialized
recommendations, and                                   support services
establish service within
EEPC (Contiltants on
packaging quality control,
product design, costing
atd pricing, etc.
including in (b) above
(PHD) vill help develop
these services).
(c)  Trade Information and    . Advisor on trade                    200                  Study tours for        45      Books and               85            330
Documentation (TID)          infomation to design and                               TID staff on                   periodicals for
help launch service,                                   trade                          library;
information                    equipment for TID
Advisor on trade docu-                                                                services
mentation to design and                                Specialized                    (furniture,
help launch service,                                   training of TID                copiers, office
staff in use of                equipment, etc.)
. Short term expetts on                                  computers,
computerization of data,                               publication of
and on preparation of                                  export
export directories and                                 directories,
other infor ation                                      etc.
services



Associated Training Abroad                                      Tat I Cost
Pro_ ram Item                     Consultant Advisory _ervices                          Study Tours               Equinment & Documentation         _    _00)_
Type of Activity            Cost                 Type ef Activity        Cost    Type of Activity    Cost
(*000)                                       ($0)                          ($000)
(d)  Training                     Short term  consultants to       180                   Study tours for          50                                          230
organize and conduct in                                key staff of
Egypt short term courses                               training
in different aspects of                                division and
export promotion for EEPC                              selected other
staff and selected service                            EEPC staff.
agencies and export firms.
Study tours for
Assessment of feasibility                              selected
of developing long tem                                 commercial
export training institute,                             representatives.
(e)  Export Policies,           . Action Program activities         190                  Study tours and         30                                            220
Procedures end               to be undertaken by EEPC:                              fellowships for
Incentives                   - simplification of import/                            staff of EEPC and
export procedures                                    Customs DepL. on
- advisor to assist in                                 export incentives,
study of improved duty                               procedures
drawback scheme                                      aimplification.
- advisor to assist in
review of protection
system
(Details of Action Program
activities are set forth
in Letter No. I )
. Product level studies
of investment
opportunities in potential
export oriented
industries.
B. GENERAL ORCANIZATIONAL            . Resident Senior Trade           155                  . Study tours for          35    Vehicles,              220            410
SUPPORT                           Advisor to give guidance                                executive                      furniture, office
and assistance to                                      director to                    equipment,
Executive Director,                                    selected trade                 computer systems
Coordinator ta. program.                               promotion and
development
Short-term adviser to                                  institutions.
develop methods for
corporate planning.                                  . Study tours for
EEPC on
corporate and
export planning.
Sub-Totals                                                        *1655                                         *550                           $305           2510
C.  CONSULTANT SUPERVISION AND    . Supervision and                                                                                                                 300
OERHEAD                           backstopping
D.  OONTINIECY                       * Price contingency (+8% for                                                                                                   390
second year; +18U for third
year). Physical contingency
of 52.
TOTAL                                                                                                                                                             $3200



- 43 -
(b)  Specialized Support Services
In parallel with direct assistance provided in product and market
development, EEPC also intends to develop a capability to assist
exporters in a n'imber of trade-related functions: product design and
adaptation, quality control, packaging, transport, costing and
pricing, and publicity and public relations. EEPC intends to acquire
staff specialized in these areas. As information focal points they
would become closely familiar with the problemn and constraints in
each area and be able to guide exporters to information sources,
consultants and experts that can provide substantive assistance.
Related Technical Assistance. Short-term consultant assistance will
be needed for each of the specialized support service areas
(packaging, quality control, product design, costing and pricing,
tLansport, and export finance). In Table 2 all but transport
services have been included under item (a) (for product and market
development) since the same experts that help to set up these
services in EEPC and provide necessary training would also extend
direct assistance to firms as part of the PMD program above). In
addition, EEPC staff filling these positions would be given
appropriate training and study tours abroad.
(c) Trade Information and Documentation
EEPC plans initially to establish two units: one for a Trade
Documentation/Library Section and a Trade Inquirieb SeiLion.
Eventually these units can develop into an integrated trade
information service that will enable EEPC to provide a flow of
timely, accurate, and relevant information for use by the exporting
community in trade promotion and marketing. Information to be
collected, processed, appraised and disseminated will relate to
prices, marketing channels, importers, import regimes, market
opportunities and general and specific export directories. This unit
would also expect to develop, maintain, and publish systematic
information about Egyptian exporters for general use.
Related Technical Assistance. The main technical assistance elements
to support this program are (a) two resident experts for six months
each on trade information and trade documentation to design and
launch the services whose TORs are given in the Project File,
Document Nc. 5, Item No. 3; (b) short-term experts for a number of
specific assignments (computerization of data, export directory
preparation, etc.); and (c) both general and specialized overseas
training for staff of the T.I. Department which will be managing this
service (para 5.19). ahe T.A. program also provides for books,
periodicals, the purchase of data bases for the T.I. library, as well
as associated equipment.
(d)  1raining
During the next 3 years EEPC proposes not only to ensure that its own
staff receive appropriate training but to act as an agency to manage
and coordinate appropriate training programs in trade promotion and
international marketing for exporting companies, service



- 44 -
organizations, and Government agencies. A small training unit would
be established in EEPC for this purpose. For the longer term, as the
volume of training activity grows, this unit could become the nucleus
for a separate though closely associated training institute as has
been the pattern in some other countries such as Ihailand.
Related Technical Assistance. Short term eonsultants are needed to
organize training courses in Egypt for staff of EEPC and of selected
service agencies and export firms. Training abroad will also be
needed in the form of study tours for EEPC staff and for selected
commercial representatives that will be working with EEPC.
Eventually consulting assistance will be needed to establish the
appropriate longer term arrangements required for exporter training.
(e) Export Policies, Procedures, and Incentives
The EEPC would have several functions with regard to export policies,
procedures and incentives. It would formulate proposals to improve
the policy framework for action by the CED. In particular, it would
review the protection regime with the aim of reducing effective
protection rates and submit its findings to the CED and the Bank
(para 3.06). It would have specific responsibility of formulating a
major needed incentive, namely, an improved dnty drawback scheme
(para 5.35(b)); it would manage an important incentive program, the
grants of exporter technical assistance (para 5.31) and would play a
catalytic role in streamlining import and export procedures. At a
later stage, it would launch a program of studies of selected
investment opportunities in promising industries.
Related Technical Assistance. In addition to generalized training
for appropriate EEPC staff to familiarize them with conditions and
programs in other countries, the technical assistance programs in
this area provides specifically for consultants to review and help
streamline import and export procedures (para 5.36(b)), for a
consultant/adviser to assist EEPC to develop an improved duty
drawback scheme (para 5.36(a)) for consulting assistance to review
the protection regime (para 3.06), and, at a later stage, consultants
to assist in preparation of investment opportunity studies.
Organization and Staffing of EEPC
5.19     To carry out the above program will require a complete reorganization
of EEPC along functional lines. The EEPC plans to create 2 new departments:
Policy and Planning, and Product and Market Development, and to strengthen the
Training, and Trade Information Departments. The Policy Planning and
Incentives Department would administer the programs concerned with export
policies, procedures and incentives (para 5.18(e)) as well as assist the
director of EEPC in developing and monitoring the corporate plan and budgets
of EEPC itself. This Department would also administer the Exporter Assistance
Fund (para 5.30). The Product and Market Development Department, which would
carsy out the program of the same title discussed above, would be organized in
5 divisions along product/industry specialties, e.g. textiles, engineering,



- 45 -
food products, etc. The Trade Information Department's functions have been
explained above, and would also include related document research. The
Training Department would handle specialized support services as well as
training. When reorganization is complete at the end of the three year period
EEPC would have a total of about 65 professional staff, mostly in the areas of
marketing and economics, finance, and engineering. Present professional staff
totals about 40 but less than half are considered to be qualified. Thus a net
staff build-up of at least 45 is envisaged. This implies a major effort in
recruitment by EEPC and requires sufficient local currency resources in order
to provide adequate compensation to attract and retain qualified professionals
(para 5.23). An organization chart showing staffing levels at full
operational strength is given in Figure 1.
Technical Assistance for General Organizational Support
5.20     In addition to technical assibLance for specific program elements,
described above, general support for EEPC is envisaged (summarized in Table 2,
part B). Most important, an experienced resident Senior Trade Promotion
Advisor would be provided on a priority basis for a two year period to assist
the executive director in building up EEPC and launching its expanded
program. The advisor would assist in developing strategies, policies and work
programs for EEPC, in p-eparing job descriptions and recruiting staff, in
developing detailed guidelines and operating procedures of the Exporter
Assistance Fund (para 5.30) and he would have primary responsibility for
coordinating the technical assistance inputs. The TOR for this position is
giv#Ln in the Project File, Document No. 5, Item No. 4. Because of the
importance of this position special emphasis will be given to the selection of
this advisor. Assistance will also be provided to help develop an internal
corporate plan and to improve EEPC's accounting system. The latter is needed
to ensure that EEPC can adequately handle the T.A. program and the exporter
assistance fund under the disbursement arrangements proposed (para 5.25 and
5.34).
5.21     A detailed timetable and work program for the first 12 months
(1984/85) has been developed (see Project File, Document No. 5, Item No. 6).
Key activities to be done as soon as possible include establishment of the new
organization, fixing comprehensive staff salary structure, recruitment of four
new department heads which with the director will form the management team,
moving to larger and more adequate premises, and bringing aboard the key
advisors to assist in the restructuring and the launching of the main export
development programs. Also planned are studies to improve the duty drawback
scheme and to streamline import and export procedures. Since the Bank loan
might not become effective until late 1984 the Government has requested an
advance under the Project Preparation Facility covering technical assistance
and related training and equipment requirements for July 1 to December 31,
1984 estimated at $190,000 (See Project File, Document No. 5, Item No. 7), and
in addition, about ¢75,000 to launch the Action Program (para 5.35).



EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Egyption Expodt Pomotion Center
Orgoniion Chart
I.-E-
I   ut(2)
-T-~~~~~~~~~~~
kenwerl               Derr  Dr                    5.rece & r?r2 t .r
Wxd I LO'? Pc.c
EI rqrwwg U r
&s. QAe  CtD*S~ *4C0)   &crci    oa                    )                        WWriCP
Crormco a 0-0 VW-kY
Note  1W -n DraCiOfj --<O#* pVr 4< sw tf 400al 
'ham r  2t V



- 47 -
Financing Arrangements
5.22     The technical assistance program needed to build up EEPC and enable
it to implement the proposed work program calls for consultant and advisory
services over a three year period commencing July 1, 1984, costing $1.6
million; and about $560,000 for overseas training, study tours, and
participation in market surveys and sales promotion missions for EEPC staff
and selected exporters. Equipment required by EEPC for general institutional
strengthening (vehicles, furniture, office equipment, computer systems) as
well as documentation for the Trade Information Center is estimated at
$305,000. Together with the costs of consultant overhead to administer the
program ($300,000 and contingencies ($395,000) total program costs are
estimated at $3,200,000. The Government has agreed to borrow the above amount
and make the funds available to EEPC as a grant.
5.23     The local currency requirements to support the above program are
estimated at LE 4.7 million for FY1985-87. About half of this is needed for
staff salaries; the balance is required for promotional and development
programmes, locally purchased equipment, and direct support for consultants
and advisors. Since the program envisages an expansion of the present scope
and level of activities as well as upgrading of staff, the local currency
requirements will substantially exceed amounts budgeted in FY1984. Since
adequate local currency budgets are crucial to the effective implementation of
this component, an understanding was reached during negotiations that
Government would provide EEPC with the budgetary support needed during
FY85-87. If the PBs increase the on-lending rates in the future, any excess
in spread income of a PB beyond 3.5% will go to the Government to help meet
the local costs of this program (para 6.03).
Monitoring and Supervision
5.24     EFPC will recruit an agency/consulting firm to implement the
technical assistance program according to Bank guidelines. The implementation
of the program will be monitored closely by the Bank. EEPC will prepare
annual work programs for FY86 and FY87 which will be discussed and approved by
the Bank prior to implementation. EEPC will also provide semi-annual reports
on its activities with particular emphasis on the implementation of the TA
program. Bank supervision missions will review the implementation of the TA
program and EEPC's overall activities at least on a semi-annual basis.
Activities to be undertaken by EEPC as part of the Action Program (studies of
the protection regime, duty drawback system, export import procedures,
investment incentives) will be closely monitored by Bank staff particularly in
the initial phases. Because of the need to ensure that the build up of EEPC
services is consistent with the demand for such services from the exporting
community and the ability of EEPC to recruit suitable staff to administer
them, agreement has been reached at negotiations and recorded in the loan
documents that an in-depth review of progress during the first year - jointly
by the Bank and the Government - will be undertaken.



- 48 -
5.25     The Government will repay the amount of S3.2 million allocated for
technical assistance to EEPC and will contribute the LE4.7 million for the
operations and programs of EEPC (para 5.23). Payments will be made to
consultants in accordance with the payment terms to be specified in the
contractual agreement to be executed between the EEPC and the consultants.
F. Exporter Assistance Fund
Eligibility Guidelines
5.26     The project will include an Exporter Assistance Fund of $3 million.
The purpose of this fund is to induce existing and potential exporters to make
technical assistance and related developmental expenditure that will expand
markets for manufactured exports and their capability to serve them. The Fund
would finance only services. The following broad activities would be eligible
for financing:
(a) pre-feasibility and related types of studies for export-oriented
investment projects;
(b) export market identification and development (e.g. market surveys,
trade fair participation, developing marketing channels, inward buyer
visits, etc.);
Cc) product upgrading and development (employment of consultants to
assist in product design and development, tooling design, packaging
design, etc.);
(d) improvements in production and cost efficiency (e.g. design of
production management and cost control system. improvements in
production layout, redesign of materials handling systems, etc.); and
(e) training of staff in both market-related and production related
activities (e.g. training of export market managers, training of
first level production supervisors which are critically short in
Egypt'.
5.27     In order to provide an incentive for exporters to undertake the above
activities, which are often costly because of the need to hire mostly foreign
consultants, it is proposed that the Fund share with exporters up to 50% of
the costs of individual projects on a grant basis. A ceiling of $100,000
would be placed on the amount available to any single firm. This would ensure
that a reasonable number of firms benefit while allowing sufficient funds for
realistic programs to be executed.
Qualifying Firms
5.28     Both trading and manufacturing firms in the private sector would
qualify for assistance. Public sector finms would not normally be eligible
since alternative sources are usually available to them, e.g. USAID, EEC, etc.
and because as a group they are less likely to require an inducement to
undertake such activities. All eligible firms would have to:



- 49 -
(a) register with EEPC, providing basic data about the firm and its
activities;
(b) provide adequate evidence that they are now exporting or will be able
to export at a substantial level (e.g. through record of past
exporting, market studies, etc.);
(c) present a plan acceptable to the EEPC for export expansion or
development appropriate to the level of assistance requested,
indicating the role of the project to be financed by the Fund and the
results expected.
Relation to EEPC Programs
5.29     The Exporter Assistance Fund is intended to complement, not compete
with, the technical assistance efforts of the EEPC. Technical assistance
provided by EEPC would be limited to specific high priority programs developed
by EEPC within the limitations of its budget and financial resources. Direct
technical assistance to firms within this context, would be largely
diagnostic. The technical assistance activities financed by the Fund are
primarily at the initiative of the exporter, and typically will emphasize
remedial as well as diagnostic activity. For example, under EEPC's product
and market development program (para 5.18(a)) a garment production expert
might visit several factories over a 10-day period and provide each with an
assessment of productive efficiency and how to improve it. With the
assistance of the Fund, an exporter might then hire experts for several months
to train staff, re-organize production lines, etc. The management and
organizational arrangements (para 5.30) would ensure that possible duplication
of effort could be eliminated.
Management and Operations
5.30     The Fund will be managed by a Managing Committee consisting of the
Executive Director of the EEPC, the Chairman of the Export Development Bank,
representatives appointed by the Board of EEPC and representatives from the
PBs. Agreement on this was confirmed during negotiations. Staff support for
reviewing applications and supervising implementation will be provided by the
Incentives Division of EEPC's Policy, Planning and Incentives Department.
This division would review applications for assistance, calling on technical
staff from the Product and Market Development and other departments to assist,
as appropriate. The review would take into account other activities of EEPC
which might be possible alternatives to the assistance requested thereby
helping to avoid duplication. General guidelines for the Fund's operation
covering the eligible items of assistance and eligibility criteria for
beneficiary firms are given in paras 5.26 and 5.28, respectively. However,
detailed guidelines and documentation for launching the Fund's operation will
be needed concerning eligibility of firms, types of project expenditures that
will qualify, as well as the requirements for acceptable export expansi.
plans. Review procedures must also be established with maxima set for the
time for staff review and approval (say 1 month total) to ensure that export
sector interest in the Fund does not flag due to bureaucratic delay. This



- 50 -
would be prepared by the Senior Trade Promotion Advisor (para 5.20) on a
priority basis, as part of his/her terms of reference. The Fund (EEPC) would
furnish, in English, a copy of the detailed guidelines regarding review
procedures, eligibility of firms, and eligible types of expenditures, etc.
which must be satisfactory to the Bank as a condition of disbursement of this
component.
Bank Review and Supervision
5.31     In order to ensure that applications for Fund assistance are
processed quickly, Bank review prior to approval will not be required. Every
three months the Fund (EEPC) would furnish a report on Fund commitments
listing the name of firm, type, employment, and sales; exporting objectives
of firm; project expenditures; financing by Fund; and expected results of
projects. Each firm which receives Fund assistance will be requested to
submit a brief report to the Fund on the results achieved, within six months
after project completion. Eligibility for additional grants from the Fund
would be conditional on receipt of such a report. Every year, the Fund will
submit a report to the Bank, analyzing the effectiveness of the Fund's
operation (by sub-sector, type of expenditure, etc.) and make recommendations,
if needed, for any changes in the Fund's operation (eligibility criteria,
limits, review procedures, need for priorities, etc.).
5.32     Until substantial experience has been gained, it is not possible to
assess the adequacy of the procedures or estimate how quickly the Fund will be
utilized. Applications will therefore be accepted, initially, on a
first-come, first-served basis. When expenditures under the Fund reach $0.5
million, the Bank will review with the Fund Managing Committee the adequacy of
the procedures adopted and the initial operations with the view to agreeing on
any modifications that may be necessary in order to achieve the Fund
objectives.
5.33     The Government will be responsible for repayment of this component
and would be compensated partly by means of additional spread on the interest
rate charged by the Government to EDB which would be passed on by the
participating banks to sub-borrowers. On the basis of an expected total loan
size of $125 million including capitalized front end fee, and reasonable
assumptions about patterns of disbursemnent and the likely amortization
schedules of the participating banks, a spread of about 0.75 percentage points
would be required.
Di sbursement
5.34     To facilitate disbursement, a special account, designated as the
Exporter Fund Account will be opened by the Goverment (para 6.09). The
Exporter Fund Account will be established at an initial level of $250,000. A
Statement of Expenditure would be used for contracts costing less than $10,000
equivalent. The Fund would be required to submit semi-annual reports
regarding the nature of disbursements made and would maintain invoices and
associated recoids regarding smaller expenditures for purposes of audit and
supervision.



- 51 -
G. Technical Assistance Related to Action Program
5.35     The Project will also assist in (a) the formulation of an improved
duty drawback scheme; (b) in the simplification of export-import procedures;
and (c) in initiating a review of the protection regime.
(a) Assistance Towards Designing an Improved Duty Drawback Scheme
The existing duty drawback scheme is inoperative because of complex
and time-consuming procedures, import licensing restrictions and
because only duties are refunded not supplementary taxes (para
3.08). The Bank has recommended that an improved duty drawback
scheme be introduced which takes into account indirect tax payments
(see Export Development Report, Chapter 3).
It has been agreed with the Government that the EEPC will ev,aluate
alternatives and complete the detailed technical work associated with
formulating the improved duty drawback scheme by July 1985. The
project provides for consultancy assistance to help EEPC with the
formulation and detailed design of the scheme, estimated to cost
$20,000. Terms of reference for this consultancy are given in the
Project File (see Document No. 6).
(b) Simplification of Export-Import Procedures
The existing export-import documentation and procedures are a
deterrent to exporting and need to be drastically simplified. EEPC
and the Customs have been working on streamlining export-import
procedures on an ad-hoc basis and considerable improvement has been
realized. Both, however, recognize the need for a systematic
approach to the problem. It has been agreed that EEPC will engage
appropriately qualified consultants to review existing procedures
systematically and suggest measures for simplification by July 1985.
The costs of such consultancy services, estimated at $60,000 will be
met from the project (Table 1). The scope of work for these services
is given in the Project File (see Document No. 7). Consultants for
the above tasks must be acceptable to the Bank.
(c) Review of Protection System
Effective protection varies widely between groups and sectors, and by
type of firm (para 3.04). To sensitize the Government to the need
for reduction and harmonization of effective protection rates,
agreement was reached at negotiations that EEPC would undertake by
the end of 1986 a review of the protection regime under TOR agreeable
to the Bank, as the basis for a dialogue on the next steps (paras
3.06 and 5.18(e)). This study will require assistance from qualified
consultants for which $50,000 has been allocated from the project and
has been included with the T.A. program for EEPC (see Table 1).
5.36     About $75,000 will be needed between July 1, 1984 and December 31,
1984 to finance consultants to assist in the study of the duty drawback scheme
and in simplifying export-import procedures. The Bank has approved the
Government's request for an advance under the PPF to enable EEPC to initiate
these programs (para 5.21). The Ministry of Economy will establish a
coordinating com ittee consisting of representatives from concerned
ministries, Finance, EEFC 2nd EDB to facilitate and guide the execution of the
studies under the AcLjaI: Program.



- 52 -
VI. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Loan Features
Lending and Onlending Arrangements
6.01         The Government of Egypt will be the borrower of the loan of $125
million which it will repay to the Bank over a period of 20 years including a
grace period of five years. After allowing for the front end fee of about
$0.31 million, the Government will onlend an amount of $117.97 million to EDB
which in turn will onlend this amount to the PBs. The PBs will use the amount
of $117.97 million to make subloans to export-oriented projects under
conditions and criteria specified in paras 5.07 and 6.06, for terms up to 15
years including a grace period of up to 3 years. Each PB will repay the
Government through EDB the amount utilized by it for making subloans according
to an amortization schedule which will correspond to the aggregate of
amortization schedules of all the subloans made by it. Initially, the loan
amount will be notionally allocated equally among the participating banks
which would then be responsible for payment of the Bank's commitment charge
and front end fee on an equal basis.
6.02         Of the amount of $6.72 million retained by the Government $6.02
million will be passed on to EEPC and $0.52 million to EDB, both as grants.
EEPC will use the amount to meet the foreign currency cost of the technical
assistance program for itself ($3.20 million) and to operate the Exporter
Assistance Fund ($3.0 million). EDB will use the funds to meet the cost of
the technical assistance to EDB. Amounts advanced to the EDB and the EEPC to
defray part of the T.A. costs under the PPF will be refinanced from the loan
account.
Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk
6.03         The Bank loan will be made to the Government at the prevailing
variable rate. The Government will releuid the amount of $117.97 million to
EDB at a fixed interest rate equal to the Bank rate at the date of loan
signature plus a minimum spread of 1.25% under a sub-loan agreement
satisfactory to the Bank. The proposed minimum spread of 1.25Z should be
sufficient to cover the interest rate and part of the foreign exchange risks
and to finance partly the cost of the Exporter Assistance Fund of $3.0
million. EDB will pass on the funds to the participating banks (PBs) after
adding 0.25% for meeting the cost of its apex function, under sub-loan
agreements satisfactory to the Bank, and finally the PBs will onlend the funds
to the projects keeping a minimum margin of 2.5% for their costs. Signature
of the sub-loan agreements between the Government and EDB and between the EDB
and at least two of the PBs will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
6.04     On the basis of the Bank's present lending rate, the rates will be as
below:



- 53 -
(a) Bank loan to Government                        10.08% p.a.
(b) Government to EDB for onlending to PBs         11.33% p.a.
(c) EDB to PBs                                     11.58% p.a.
(d) PBs to borrowers                               14.08% p.a.
If the PBs increase their on-lending rates so as to enable them to increase
their spread to more than 3.5%, the excess over 3.5% will be transferred to
the Government for meeting a part of the local costs of the TA program for
EEPC. The interest rate structure will be reviewed at least annually to
reflect changes in the cost of similar, alternative funds to Egyptian
borrowers, and the new rates will be applied to the uncommitted portion of the
Bank loan. Sub-loans made by the PBs will be denominated in U.S. dollars but
sub-borrowers would repay their sub-loans in Egyptian pounds at the highest
official exchange rate declared by the Central Bank of Egypt. The proposed
on-lending rate of 14.08% is about the same as the cost of short term foreign
exchange funds available from banking institutions at present.
Roles of EDB and Participating Banks
6.05         It is proposed to use the EDB as an apex institution to channel
the Bank loan proceeds to the PBs. Under this arrangement, EDB will borrow
the loan proceeds from the Government and relend the proceeds to the PBs on a
first come-first served basis. The lending risk will be borne by the PBs.
EDB will maintain accounts of loan utilization, repayment, etc. and act as a
central monitoring agency to ensure that the various sectoral targets proposed
for the loan as a whole are observed. With regard to sub-loans, the PBs will
submit individual sub-loan applications directly to the Bank, but will send a
summary of the project appraisal data to EDB to enable it to monitor
compliance with eligibility criteria. The proposed arrangement will have the
following benefits. (i) It will create & central review point, which will
facilitate monitoring of allocations to public and private sectors for the
loan as a whole. (ii) It will promote healthy competition between the PBs and
speed-up loan utilization. (iii) It will provide EDB an opportunity to
rapidly acquire familiarity with appraisal of export oriented projects and to
initiate eventually its own project finance activities as a PB under this
project.
Individual Subloan Limits and Free Limits
6.06         Subprojects which satisfy the eligibility criteria specified in
para. 5.07 above will be eligible to receive finanicing out of the loan
proceeds. Tne following additional conditions would apply: sub-projects
should not have a total investment cost over $20.0 million and each subloan
should not exceed $5.0 million. In addition, at least 50% of the loan
proceeds would be limited to projects in the private sector. Each of the PBs
will have a free limit of tl.25 million. If EDB is designated as a PB during
project implementation, its free limit would be determined in light of its
appraisal capability, quality of portfolio etc.. The first three sub-projects
submitted by each PB will be reviewed in the Bank irrespective of the size of



- 54 -
the subloans proposed. All sub-projects proposed by companies in which any PB
has more than 25X equity holding will be treated as an above free limit
sub-project. Based on an analysis of the typical size of export-oriented
projects in the public and private sectors, about 20 to 25 above free limit
sub-projects and 30-40 below free limit sub-projects are expected to be
financed. The above free limit projects will account for about $80 million or
two-thirds of the loan amount. This represents an adequate amount of
sub-projects to be reviewed directly by the Bank.
Subproject Appraisal and Supervision Requirements
6.07     As the objective of the project is to increase production capacity in
export-oriented industries, each subproject appraisal report will include a 3
or 5-year export development plan, depending on whether the sub-project is an
expansion or new project, prepared by the sponsors which the PBs would examine
with the assistance of EEPC as needed. In the case of sub-projects for
indirect exports i.e. sub-projects for manufacture of intermediate goods
required by a direct exporter, the PBs must satisfy themselves that a link
between the output of the indire t sub-project and the ultimate user/exporter
is clearly established (see para 5.08).
Procurement and Disbursement
6.08     It is proposed that the PBs would follow international shopping
procedures with comparison of offers from at least three suppliers for bid
packages valued below $2 million. Review by Bank staff of the procurement
procedures of DIB (which has had substantial experience of utilizing
Bank-financed industrial credits) during subloan review has shown that these
procedures are satisfactory and have resulted in procurement of suitable goods
at reasonable prices. Bid packages exceeding $2 million would be procured
according to Bank's ICB procedures. About 4 to 5 such contracts can be
expected to be financed under the loan ($10-12 million). Bank staff would
review the bid documents and award of contract decisions for such items on an
ex ante basis before withdrawal applications are processed. The proposed
procurement procedure is consistent with those followed under previous
industrial credits.
6.09         It is proposed that the Government would establish a special
account on behalf of EEPC for the Exporter Assistance Fund to facilitate
disbursement. The initial deposit in the Special Account would be $0.25
million. For the technical assistance component for EEPC, payment will be
made to the consultants in accordance with payment terms specified in the
contract agreement. For the TA component for EDB, standard disbursement
procedures would apply. Agreement has been reached with EEPC that the annual
audit would include an audit of the special account.



- 55 -
6.10     The Bank loan will be disbursed against 100% of the foreign
expenditures and 60X of the local purchase cost of "off the shelf" purchase of
equipment already imported by machinery dealers in Egypt. In regard to the
technical assistance components, disbursements will be made to cover 100% of
the cost of consultants recruited for delivery of technical assistance.
Disbursement will be made against standard documentation except for contracts
valued at less than $20,000 equivalent, which will be claimed under Statement
of Expenditures. The supporting documentation will be retained by the PBs and
reviewed by supervision missions. The proposed loan of $125 million is
expected to be committed over three years from loan effectiveness and
disbursed as shown below;
FY 85      FY 86       FY 87      FY 88       FY 89     FY 90
($ million)-
During Period    5.0        20.0        36.0       35.0        18.0       11.0
Cumulative       5.0        25.0        61.0       96.0       114.0     125.0
A quarterly disbursement schedule is given in Annex 8.  The projected
disbursement schedule assumes a slightly slower build-up of disbursement in
FY86 compared with the standard disbursement profile of existing IDF loans in
EMENA region. This is because the proposed project is a pilot project and the
intermediaries are likely to need a longer time at least in the initial years,
to promote and appraise export-oriented projects.
Other Features
6.11     The final date for submission of subloans is proposed to be December
31, 1987 (about 3 years from expected date of loan effectiveness) and closing
date for disbursements will be December 31, 1990 (about six years after loan
effectiveness). Other terms and conditions of the loan will be similar to
those applicable to Bank loans to DFCs.
B. Project Benefits and Risks
Project Benefits
b.12     As mentioned earlier in this report, the development of manufactured
exports is central to Egypt's ability to maintain a high GDP growth rate and a
healthy balance of payments position over the next two decades. The decline
in manufactured exports needs to be .-eversed and the project is the first
serious effort on the part of the Government and the Bank to address jointly
this critical issue. The project aims at developing efficient export-oriented
firms in industries with comparative advantage. Besides financing prcduction
facilities, the technical assistance provided through the project will help
both existing and potential exporters to improve cost competitiveness,



- 56 -
marketing skills, product quality and design, etc., and thus enhance their
export competitiveness. Egyptian industry will also improve operating
efficiency and resource allocation through exposure to foreign markets and
competition. Both private and public firms will benefit from this process and
this will help develop an export mentality among Egyptian industry which is
missing at present. The project will emphasize growth of non-traditional
exports which will help reduce the vulnerability of Egyptian exports to market
limitations. The Project will finance nearly $300 million of investment in
some fifty export-oriented sub-projects estimated to export $135 million per
annum at full operations and would create roughly an additional 10,000 jobs at
an investment cost per job created of about US$30,000 which is slightly below
the marginal investment cost per job for the Egyptian industrial sector as a
whole.
6.13     The project has already made an impact on economic policy-making in
the Government by helping to build consensus among decision makers on the need
for policy reform, particularly with regard to exchange rate and protection
policies. During project implementation, further improvement in trade
policies and export-import procedures will be realized through an Action
Program agreed with the Government which will help to improve the long-term
prospects for export growth. The project will help in building up two
institutions vital to the development of the export sector - the Egyptian
Export Promotion Centre (EEPC) and the Egyptian Export Development Bank
(EDB). The EEPC will have a key role in trade policy formulation and, as the
secretariat to the Cabinet Committee on Export Development (CED), can make an
important contribution to policy formulation for export development.
Project Risks
6.14     As a pilot project in the complex area of export development, there
are a number of risks which could impede the effectiveness of the project in
increasing Egyptian exports. Recognizing that export expansion takes time and
the benefit of the project will be only slowly felt, an important risk is the
degree to which policy reforms will be enacted in the mediumrterm which will
influence the project outcome. The Government has already enacted significant
reforms to the exchange rate applicable to exports and to improving
export-import procedures. It fully supports the action program for policy and
institutional reform proposed in the project. Thus, a positive trade policy
regime can be expected to be achieved over the medium term. The project aims
at building up two new institutions in the export sector - a risky
undertaking. The TA program to EDB and EEPC will be closely supervised.
Moreover, EDB has recruited an experienced chairman who has the Government's
full support. Finally, since sub-projects financed through the loan are
expected to export 30% of production in a three- to five-year period, there is
always the chance of some firms not meeting this target. The Project provides
for careful appraisal to ensure that sub-projects are designed for export
markets and the export development plan is realistic. The intermediaries and
EEPC will monitor the performance of these firms and provide technical
assistance as needed. Bank staff will also supervise the implementation of
the project components intensively. During the first year, supervision
missions will be scheduled every 3 to 4 months which will enable the Bank to
watch developments closely. Thus the risks are reasonable.



- 57 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01         The following agreements have been reached with the Government,
EEPC EDB and the PBs during negotiations:
(a)  The Government would:
(i) Borrow the loan of $125 million and repay the principal and
interest over a period of 20 years including 5 years grace (para
6.01);
(ii) bear the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and the
cuirrencies owed to the Bank (para 6.03);
(iii) provide $3.20 million out of the loan on a grant basis to EEPC to
meet the foreign currency cost of technical assistance tb EEPC
(para 6.02);
(iv) provide $3.0 million out of the loan on a grant basis to EEPC to
operate the Exporter Assistance Fund (para 6.02);
(v) provide LE 4.7 million over the period 1984-87 to EEPC to meet
its local currency budgetary requirements (para 5.23);
(vi) Provide $0.52 million to EDB as a grant to meet the foreign costs
of the technical assistance program (para 6.02);
(vii) Relend the amount of $117.97 million to EDB for on-lending to the
PBs under a satisfactory subloan agreement which would provide
for a minimum spread of 1.25% to the Government over the Bank's
interest rate at the date of loan signature by the Bank (para
8.01);
(viii) Agree in connection with the Action Program (paras 5.02, 5.35),
to discuss the results of the studies of the duty drawback
scheme, export-oriented procedures (para 3.09), and protection
regime (para 3.06), and confirm agreement to extend tax holiday
for export projects (para 3.12);
(ix)  Promulgate a new decree restructuring the EEPC which will be a
condition of loan signature (para 5.16);
(x) Establish a Special Account to facilitate disbursement of the
Exporter Assistance Fund (para 6.09).
(b)  EDB would:
(i) onr-lend the amount of $117.97 million to PBs under satisfactory
sub-loan agreements; signing of a satisfactory sub-loan
agreements with at least two of the PBs is required prior to loan
effectiveness (para 6.03);



- 58 -
(ii) set up an apex unit to carry out its function as an apex agency
for the credit component of the loan prior to effectiveness (para
4.08);
(iii) set up an accounting and monitoring unit, staffed by an adequate
number of individuals considered satisfactory by the Bank to
onlend the proceeds of the loan received by EDB from the
Government, prior to loan effectiveness (para 4.09);
(iv) adopt a statement of operating policies, satisfactory to the Bank
by November 1, 1984 (para 4.05, 6.05);
(v) engage consultants to implement the technical assistance program
according to Bank guidelines (para 5.13);
(vi) engage external auditors to audit its apex operations in
conformity with Bank guidelines (para 4.10);
(c) PBs would:
:i) onlend the loan proceeds to export-oriented projects which
satisfy the criteria described in para 5.07 at an interest rate
of at least 14% p.a. (para 6.04);
(ii) review their lending interest rates annually wdth the Bank (para
6.04);
(iii) if at any time, the prevailing lending rate of the PBs results in
an interest spread exceeding 3.5% to the PB, agree to place the
income arising from the excess over the 3.5% spread in a separate
account to be used for meeting the local currency costs of EEPC
(para 6.04);
(iv) follow agreed subproject appraisal guidelines (para 6.07);
(v) ensure that at least half of the proceeds under the credit
component are allocated to the private sector (para 6.06);
(vi) observe the free limits assigned to them (para 6.06);
(vii) not grant loans to projects whose total investment cost exceeds
$20 million in 1984 prices (para 6.06);
(viii) observe the ceiling of $5.0 million in 1984 prices on individual
subloans (para 6.06);
(xi) each PB will share equally the commitment and front end fees on
the part of the loan to be onlent by EDB (para 6.01).



- 59 -
(d) NDB will;
(i) Prepare and implement a plan for reorganization and staffing of
the Investment department satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.25).
(ii) Prepare a policy statement satisfactory to the Bank and adopt it
by March 31, 1985 (para 4.26).
(iii) Train a minimum of 5 professional staff in 1984 through the
training program included in this project (para 4.27).
(e) Bank Misr will:
ti) Fill at least seven key vacant positions most urgently needed at
the IC by June 30, 1985 (para 4.32).
(ii) Adopt a policy statement for the IC satisfactory to the Bank by
June 30, 1985 (para 4.33).
(iii) Train a minimum of six staff from the IC in project appraisal
through a training program to be organized under this Project in
1984 (para 4.34).
(f)  DIB will:
Train a minimum of five professional staff in 1984 through the
training program to be organized under the project (para 4.17).
Cg)  The EEPC would:
i) Engage consultants, in accordance with Bank guidelines, to
implement a program of technical assistance for EEPC (para 5.24);
(ii) Agree to a joint Government, and Bank review of EEPC progress
after one year as a pre-requisite to further expansion of EEPC TA
activities (para 5.24);
(iii) Agree tc. undertake the following studies concerning the
policy/'incentive environment:
- undertake with consultant assistance technical work for an
improved duty drawback scheme before July 1985 (paras 5.18(e),
5.35(a);
- engage qualified consultants to review and help simplify
existing export-import procedures before July 1985 (paras
5.18(e), 5.35(b);
- undertake with consultant assistance a review of the protection
system befo-e end-December 1986 (paras 5.18(e), and 5.35(c)).



- 60 -
(iv) Agree to manage the Exporter Assistance Fund for which it would:
- develop detailed guidelines for procedures and operations which
must be satisfactory to the Bank as a condition of disbursement
(para 5.30);
- establish a MAnagement Committee consisting of the Executive
Director of EEPC, Chairman of EDB, a Board member and
representatives of the PBs to sanction grants, monitor
performance and approve all operating procedures for the EAF
(para 5.30);
- review with the Bank the procedures for the operation of the
Fund when disbursements reach $0.5 million with the view to
agreeing on any changes needed in the procedures or operations
(para 5.32);
- provide appropriate semi-annual and annual reports (para 5.31).
7.02 Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Signature of satisfactory sub-loan agreements between the Government and
EDB and between the EDB and at least two of the three :B's would be
conditions of effectiveness (pars 6.03).
(b) EDB will set up an apex unit with satisfactory staffing before loan
effectiveness (para 4.08).
(c) EDB will set up an accounting and monitoring unit with satisfactory
staffing, systems and procedures prior to loan effectiveness (para 4.09).
7.03     Subject to the conditions listed above, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of $125 million including the capitalized front-end
fee.



- 61 -
ANNEX I
page 1 of 4
Economic Efficiency and Comparative Advantage
of Egyptian Industry
1.       Analyzing economic efficiency of industry in Egypt is particularly
complex because of the highly distorted domestic price structure for products
in relation to their international values. These distortions in relative
prices are a result of the Government's policy to subsidize consumption of
various commodities by controlling prices on output and providing implicit
subsidies on intermediate inputs to the producing firms. A particularly
unfortunate outcome of these price controls is that economic and financial
rates of return on these activities diverge significantly; thus financial
rates of return usually fail to indicate economic efficiency. Moreover,
because of the extensive nature of price controls in many industries, e.g.
textiles, conclusions on economic efficiency are particularly sensitive to
assumptions regarding the relative international prices of inputs and outputs.
2.       mhe criterion used here for analyzing economic efficiency of an
industrial activity is the domestic resource cost (DRC) ratio which compares
the opportunity cost of domestically supplied factors of production in that
activity to the value added at world prices. Activities/products with a DRC
ratio less than one are termed efficient, which means that the value of output
at world prices is greater than the economic value of the inputs to produce
them. A DRC ratio that is less than one also provides a preliminary measure
of comparative advantage. However, care needs to be exercised in interpreting
DRC ratios as indicators of comparative advantage since a product that is
efficient as an import substitute, may not be competitive as an export item if
a wide margin exists between its FOB and CIF price. Also, since DRC ratios
are computed for a specific time period, temporarily low capacity utilization
due to factors extraneous to firms would produce low DRC ratios.
Consequently, some products that may not be efficient now, could in time
become so due to total factor productivity improvements and, therefore, would
have comparative advantage in the longer run. Witihin a product group, ratios
for individual firms may be distributed over a range of values and thus
average values are only broadly indicative of industry or product group
potential; they may conceal individual products that may be highly efficient
or inefficient.
3.       The DIRC results presented below are based on a study of some 110
firms both public and private, covering ten major industrial product groups.
The results have been used to classify industries/products into three
categories - those which have an aggregate DRC ratio below one and thus appear
to show significant comparative advantage; those which are close to being
competitive at international prices and have the potential for further
expansion either as import substitutes or for export; and those which have
high DRC ratios and do not at present appear to warrant further investment.
Table 1 presents the list of products in each category. A discussion of
comparative advantage in each product area follows.



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
page Z of 4
Textiles
4.       The textile industry is fundamentally two different industries plus
some miscellaneous activities. Textiles proper -- the spinning, weaving, and
finishing of fabrics -- has become a relatively capital intensive industry
particularly in the cotton-based system. Egypt's potential comparative
advantage lies less in low labor costs (though this is significant) and more
in the availability of high quality cotton and the fact that there is a
well-established industry specialized in using that cotton. Products in which
cotton has the most significant share of costs - yarns - are potentially the
most competitive particularly the medium and fine count yarns which make best
use of that cotton. The DRC ratios calculated for the sector, not
surprisingly, are highly sensitive to the economic price assigned to cotton.
If priced on the basis of marginal export revenue which is the correct
approach rather than the fuli export price, the aggregate DRC for the sector
is less than one which indicates overall significant potential advantage for
further expansion. However, as discussed in more detail in another Bank
Study 1/, trade restrictions severely limit this potential. Clothing, which
remains a relatively labour-intensive industry in Egypt, should have a high
level of comparative advantage of Egypt given its relatively low wage
structure. However, this is evident only in knit products from cotton, where
existing plants are relatively efficient and products are able to command a
premium on export markets.  With regard to the more technically demanding
group of woven garments, the results are more mixed. Clearly considerable
industry upgrading is needed before a fully favorable DRC would be
registered. Other textile products include jute goods, carpets and woolen
textiles. Jute products are highly inefficient as the shadow value of output
and inputs are about equal. Cotton carpet manufacture is competitive but
machine manufactured polyester-natural fiber blended carpets are
non-competitive. Woolen textiles are the least inefficient of this group.
Food Products
5.       The food industry is the most efficient industry in Egypt with an
aggregate DRC well below one. Food products whose manufacture is competitive
in international terms include alcohol, sugar, biscuits, jams, edible oil,
yeast and soft drinks. Tobacco processing is mixed. Four food products -
processed vegetables, chocolate, confectionary and salt have marginal DRCs
while syrup and starch are clearly inefficient. The food industry derives its
competitiveness from the local availability of basic inputs and the natural
protection arising from higher packing, storage and transport costs faced by
imports. However, these natural protection factors also tend to work against
the producer who desires to export.
Chemicals
6.       Basic pulp and paper manufacturing are not competitive activities
given Egypt's existing plant and raw material inputs, basically rice straw and
bagasse - which yield short fibered pulp. Some paper products - corrugated
cardboard, printed products, cellophane - are competitive because of being
able to use local inputs.
i/ Egypt: A Program for the Development of Manufactured Exports, IBRD, Report
No. 4580-ECT.



Table 1
Comparative Advantage of Industrial Products
1.  Activities which already appear                 II.  Activities which may become competitive          II.  Activities with high domestic resource costa
competitive at international prices                  and- offer potential for exports                       which are unlikely to allow efficient exports
Textiles                                                  Textiles                                               Textiles
- high and medium count cotton yarns                      - cotton/polyester blended yarns                       - coarse count yarns
-higher quality cotton cloths                             - cotton/polyester blended fabrics                     - coarse cloth
- knitted cotton fabrics
- readymade clothing of cotton fabrics                    Tobacco
Food Products                                             Food Products                                          Food Products
- flavors and essences                                    - preserved fruits and vegetables                      _ syrups
- edible oils                                             - biscuits and confectionary                           - starch
- soaps and detergents                                    - cosmetics
- fodder and concentrated animal feed                     - salt                                                 Chemical Products
- soft drinks                                                                                                    - pulp and paper
- milk products                                           Paper Products                                         - phosphate fertilizer
- sugar                                                   - packaging materlals                                  - basic industrial chemicals
- fruit jams, preserves, Juices                           - printed matter                                       - artificial fibres                        0%
- non-edible oils
Leather and Tanning                                       Nitrogenous Fertilizer (using natural gas)
Metal Producta                                            Metal Products                                         Metal Products
- railway carriages                                       - shaped and formed metal                              - road motor vehicles
- industrial electrical apparatus                         - wire and cable                                       - basic iron and steel
- non-eloctric consumer durables                          - aluminum products                                    - metal castings
- motor vehicle parts                                  - aluminum
Non-metallic Minerals                                                                                            - steel pipes
- cement
Consumer Electronics
Wood Products
- furniture                                                                                                      Ceramics, China and Glass



- 64 -
ANNEX I
page 4 of 4
7.       Fertilizer manufacturing is another sector with mixed results.
Production of nitrogenous fertilizer based on locally available natural gas is
efficient (DRC=0.7), but existing plants do not yet show sufficiently low unit
costs required to overcome the CIF-FOB price differential in order to be
competitive in export markets. The phosphate fertilizer industry which was an
exporter at one time has deteriorated dramatically in efficiency as a
consequence of unfavorable international price movements in phosphate rock and
energy inputs relative to the price of output. It is no longer efficient.
New plants employing modern technology are likely to be efficient but need to
be carefully analyzed. Other chemical products present a mixed picture.
Manufacture of detergents, laundry soap, tanned leather and leather products
is competitive as import substitutes while that of synthetic fibers, coke
products and non-edible oils is highly inefficient (negative value added at
world prices).
Basic Metals
8.       The basic metals sector broadly consists of aluminum and iron and
steel production. Aluminum production is highly inefficient with negative
DRC, while the iron and steel complex has a DRC ratio between 1.6 to 2.6
depending on assumed valuation of capital costs. Manufacture of steel pipes
and ferrous castings also appear extremely inefficient. Enterprises in this
sector avail a huge subsidy from controlled electricity and fuel prices which
allow them very high levels of effective protection. Existing plants in the
basic metals sector, therefore, does not appear to have comparative advantage
at prevailing international prices.
Engineering Products
9.       Existing production of industrial electrical goods (motors, cables,
batteries, etc.) is economically efficient as the aggregate DRC's for this
product category is well below one as opposed to consumer electronics which
are highly inefficient. In the case of transport equipment, the only product
group which is efficient is railway wagons and coaches. The industrial firms
manufacturing buses, trucks, cars, and bicycles are inefficient, primarily
because of the small scale of operation and high import content, but the
manufacture of vehicle components is an efficient industry although the
current product range is extremely underdeveloped.
Building Materials, Ceramics, China and Glass
10.      Cement manufacture is economically efficient in plants employing the
dry process. Ceramic products exhibit negative value added at world prizes
while china and glass have very h4;,z DRC ratios. Enterprises in this sector
gain a substantial implicit subsidy from low fuel prices which allow them very
high levels of effective protection.



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
page 1 of 5
Program of Financial and Nonr-Financial Services
for the Export Sector
1.       Many developing countries have introduced special financing schemes
to ensure that exporters are provided with adequate finance in time at a
reasonable cost. Exporters basically need financing of two types:
(a) pre-shipment finance to cover working capital needs in the
interval between receipt of the order and time of shipment;
(b) post-shipment finance to bridge the financing gap between
shipment of goods and receipt of export proceeds.
As discussed earlier, only financially strong Egyptian exporters with
confirmed L/Cs are able to obtain pre-shipment finance from commercial banks
on a routine basis although margin requirements are very high (para 3.23). In
order to improve access to Bank financing for all exporters it is proposed to
introduce special schemes for pre-shipment and post-shipment financing to be
implemented by all commercial banks.  Table 1 provides a summary description
of both schemes. To en:ourage commercial banks to provide export finance
along the lines of these schemes, it is proposed to introduce an export credit
guarantee scheme to reduce the banks' lending risks which would be implemented
by the newly established Export Development Bank (EDB). As an added
inducement, the EDB would also refinance pre-shipment and post-shipment loans
at a reasonable spread whenever the commercial banks face resource constraints.
2.       The following important points need to be taken into account in
developing and implementing these schemes:
(i) Exporters should be provided finance _gainst firm orders or
contracts of sale without requiring the backing of confirmed L/Cs;
(ii) Streamlined methods of credit evaluation should be adopted with
simplified documentation;
(iii) interest rates particularly for post-shipment loans should be in
line with rates applied by competitors;
(iv) Margin requirements and maturities should be flexibly determined
to improve competitiveness;
(v) Collateral requirements should be simplified by requiring
transfer of ownership of the goods to the bank or obtaining a
promissory note from the exporter.
(vi) An export credit guarantee scheme should be introduced in
parallel with these financing schemes to enable banks to reduce
their security requirements by sharing the lending risk with the
guarantee institution.



Table I
OWtline of Pre-Shipmnt and Post-5hipmnt lnance Schemes
Pre-Shipment Finance Scheme                               Post-Shipmnt Finance Scheme
(Short-Teru)
Eligibility                     Exporters of all goods                                     Exporters of all goods
and commoditLes other than mineral                         and camoditiec  other than mineral
fuels, crude uaterials (excluding                          fuels, crude materials (excluding
fuels), cotton and rice.                                   fuels), cotton and rice.
Amount                          Up to 80 per cent of the value of                          Up to 90 per cent of FOB value of
contract.                                                  c ontrac t.
Types of Advances               Overdrafts, packing credits or pre-                        Export bill.
shipment loans depending upon the items/
goods under finance and the nature of
sales contracts.
Rate of interest                Preferential rate - currentLy 10-13Z                       Preferential - in line with competitor
rates                                                0
Type of Security/               Firxo orders or contracts of sale either                   Export bills,
Collateral                      under letters of credit, on approved                       shipping docuaents, export credit
credit terms, or according to generally                   guarantee/insurance policy.
acceptable international practices. Also
export credit guarantee.
Period of credit                Up to 12 months.                                           Up to 12 months.
Repayment                       Negotiation/purchase/discount of                           Retirement of bills/realization of
proceeds                        export bills.                                              proceede.
Refinance                       With Export DBvelopmat Bank e.g. at 112 p.a.               With Export Development Bank e.g. at
to allow net spread of at least 2Z to comercial            9Z p.a. to allow net spread of at
bank.                                                      least 22 to comercial bank.
0
n.



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
page 3 of 5
3.       These financing facilities should be provided both to exporters who
are manufacturers and to merchant exporters or trading companies. 1/ Trading
companies in Egypt currently find it difficult to secure export credit on the
same terms as manufacturers and are thus at a competitive disadvantage. Since
trading companies potenitially have an important role to play in Egypt's export
development as evidenced by the experience of several successful exporting
countries (Japan and Korea in particular, and more recently India and Turkey),
it is essential to provide them the same financial facilities as manufacturing
exporters. Both the pre-shipment and post-shipment finance schemes should
have a normal term of one year which should cover adequately the terms of
credit required for most goods currently exported. However, there is a
possibility that Egypt may start exporting some engineering goods to world
markets in the not too distant future. It would then be necessary to
introduce a medium term export credit scheme for which appropriate terms and
conditions would need to be formulated.
Export Credit Guarantee Scheme
4.       As discussed before, the immediate need of Egyptian exporters is to
secure adequate finance at the pre-shipment and post-shipment stages under a
simple operational scheme from their commercial banks. Since commercial banks
are reluctant to finance export transactions because of perceptions of higher
risk, particularly in non L/C cases, it is suggested that an export credit
guarantee scheme be introduced to provide collateral support to exporters in
obtaining pre-shipment and post-shipment loans. The beneficiaries under this
scheme would be the banks which provide pre-shipment and post-shipment
finance. The guarantee would ensure that should an exporter default on a
loan, a percentage of the loss would be reimbursed by the guarantee
organization.
5.       A summary description of an Export Credit Guarantee Scheme is given
below:
(i) Eligibility
All types of short-term advances given by banks to exporters for
the manufacture, processing, purchasing or packing of goods meant
for export against firm export orders/contracts and/or past
export performance will be eligible for the pre-shipment credit
guarantee. Transactions where no letters of credit have been
opened will also be covered under the scheme. Post-shipment
advances given by banks to exporters through purchase or discount
of export bills against firm export orders will be eligible under
the scheme. Advances given by banks to exporters, who enter into
contracts for export of services or for construction work abroad,
to meet preliminary expenses, in connection with such contracts
are also eligible for cover.
1/ Trading companies need pre-shipment finance for purchasing goods, packaging
and covering freight and insurance costs.



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
page 4 of 5
(ii) Risks Covered
Pre-Shipment: Any loss sustained by a bank due to the failure of
the exporter to repay the debt because of insolvency or protracted
default of the exporter or importer.
Post-Shipment;  Any loss sustained by a bank arising out of
purchase or discount of an export bill due to protracted default
or insolvency of the exporter or importer.
(iii) Maximum Liability: The guarantees will be issued with a maximum
liability. While fixing the maximum liability, the guarantee
organization will be generally guided by the views of financing
banks regarding standing, capability and creditworthiness of the
exporter.
(iv) Guarantee Fee
Pre-shipment: About 2.0 per cent per annum.
Post-shipment: About 2.0 per cent per annum.
(v) Extent of Guarantee Claims
Pre-shipment:  A sum equivalent to 70 per cent of the amount in
default subject to maximum liability.
Post-shipment: A sum equivalent to 80 per cent of the amount in
default subject to maximum liability.
(vi) Payment of Guarantee Claims
For pre-shipment and post-shipment loans.
Protracted default - Not exceeding three months from the due date
of repayment.
Insolvency: Within thirty days from the date of confirmation that
the guarantee advances have been admitted to rank against the
insolvent's estate or within three months from the due date of
repayment, whichever is earlier.
(vii) Currency
The guarantees will be issued in Egyptian pounds and the claims
will also be settled in the same currency.
6.       To implement the scheme, the guarantee organization could offer three
types of credit guarantees in Egyptian pounds, initially to suit the varying
needs of exporters. Broad features of the three types are indicated below:



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
page 5 of 5
(a) Individual Credit Guarantees; Banks should be able to obtain
individual guarantees to cover pre- and post-shipment advances
made to each exporter against a specific export order or sale
contract for a stipulated period of time.
(b) Whole Turnover Credit Guarantee: The guarantees are aimed at
providing a total cover to banks by guaranteeing all their
pre-shipment and/or post-shipment advances. Such guarantees may
also cover the running accounts of an exporter-client up to
prescribed limits in respect of various export orders or sale
contracts which may or may not be backed by letters of credit.
Depending on the volume of business offered for cover, the spread
of risks and other relevant factors, the guarantee organization
may agree to issue whole turnover pre- and post-shipment
guarantees at lower premium rates with a higher percentage of
risk covered compared to individual credit guarantees.
(c) Credit Guarantees for Small Exporters; The small exporters could
be those whose export turnover during the preceeding 12 months
has not exceeded, say, L.E. 100,000. In order to encourage such
exporters and ensure easy availability of credit to them for
execution of export orders/contracts, the guarantee organization
should be able to offer liberalized pre- end post-shipment
guarantee facilities.
7.       Operational details of the guarantee scheme will need to be developed
by the guarantee organization in consultation with the CBE, commercial banks
and exporters.
Export Credit Insurance Schemes
8.       The main purpose of the export credit insurance schemes are to
provide cover to exporters in respect of default and insolvency of buyers
(commercial risks) or to cover risks associated with political and country
factors (restrictions on remittances, war, cancellation of import license,
etc.). Exporters can assign the insurance policy to their banks as additional
security. Export credit insurance policies are particularly important in the
case where exporters provide medium-term financing to importers since risks
are considerably higher compared to short-term loans. The question of
introducing the export credit insurance schemes simultaneously with the export
credit guarantee schemes has been considered. Taking into account the nature
of Egyptian exports and their financing requirements which are mainly
short-term, the export credit guarantee scheme alone appears sufficient to
take care of the interests of banks and exporters at present. It is,
therefore, suggested that after gaining experience in the operation of the
export credit guarantee schemes for a year, the EDB consider introducing
insurance schemes for exporters.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EDB - Board of Directors, January, 1984
Dr. Hazem El Biblawi                            Chairman
Dr. Mohamed Samir Mohamed El Sharkawi
Professor of Commercial Law                     Representing Financial and
University of Cairo                             Economic Expertise
Dr. Baher Mohamed Atlam
Professor of Public Finance                     Representing Financial and
University of Cairo                             Economic Expertise
Dr. Ibrahim Kamel
Private Exporter
Ex Professor of Management                      Representing The National
University of Cairo                             Bank of Egypt
Dr. Abdelaziz Hussein
Ex Minister of Land Reclamation                 Representing Banque du Caire
Mr. Abdelrahman El Shazli
Ex Minister of Supply                           Representing Bank of Alexandria
Eng. Fouad Abou Zaghla
Ex Minister of Industry                         Representing Misr Bank
Mr. Aly El Leithy
Under-Secretary of the                          Representing The National
Ministry of Planning                             Investment Bank
Mr. Elsayed Elsayed Omar
Counselor of the                                Representing The National
Ministry of Economy                              Investment Bank



EXPORT  INDUSTRk  !   EVELOPMENT PROJECT
EDB   - Proposed Organization  Structure
Insjeotton      Ilr.aecal j                 Adn.   |        Internation.a1  Intelegence  Reaetrch,            ta
e            Dept.          Dept                          Coordirt            Dept.   Planning         ProSea311
L_       _               DeL 0                    erain. De-t.t.
P re,Jects     -3akr                                                                 .E.C.tG.I
Fln2ce 6 Prctlon                                                   DVLi31on                                                      Division
M.li a ton
'FF
PreJects         .I 1|w        ProJeats   |etall                 Creidt       Interlaulc    Cnselrn EI               Under-          Ir      ccc,t;I 
|  Appraimal           Up  |     Prartion   |         Brkirig   D| pt.            F.lations   & Advior  I|              writir|    Dept       |  Dept.      | 4
L.Cenat.               D L rpt.      De. Deptt..                                  Dept.        ervie    ept                 pt.
|~~                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~ l
Marl/e   Accountlr                                           etsIL &
Resear |        Dpt. r                       Finance      ID Curantee   I4ardcendise
Dept. *    |                                Dept.              D Dept.           Dept.
d inary     Cntrol|
Credi;
CaIc         1---                                                                                                                  M  ..     Wi
0'



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EDB - Projected Operations, 1985 - 1989
(LE '000)
1985      1986      1987       1988      1989
Long-term loans (FC) (t)
Approvals                      5,000       6,500     7,800     9,360   11,232
Commitments                    2,500       5,750     7,150     8,580   10,296
Disbursements                    750       2,975     5,520      7,299    8,809
Long-term loans (LC (LE)
Approvals                      5,000       6,500     7,800     9,360   11,232
Commitments                    3,000      5,900      7,280     8,736   10,483
Disbursements                  1,500      4,450      6,590     8,008    9,610
Short-term loans (FC) (t)
Export:
Approvals                      6,000      10,000    11,200    12,544   14,049
Outstanding                    3,000       5,000     5,600     6,272    7,025
Non-Export:
Outstanding                    5,000       8,000     9,000      9,500   10,000
Short-term loans (LC) (LE)
Export:
Approvals                      6,000      10,000    11,200    12,544   14,049
Outstanding                    3,000       5,000     5,600      6,272    7,025
Non-Export:
Outstanding                    2,000       3,500     4,500      5,000    5,500
Equity Investments (LE)
Subscribed                     2,000       4,000     8,000    10,000   12,000
Paid-in                          500       1,500     3,500      6,000    8,500
Outstanding                      500       2,000     5,500    11,500   20,000
Guarantees (t)
Approvals                     23,000      33,000    41,000    47,000   52,000
Outstanding                   15,000      22,000    29,000    32,000   34,000



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
EGYPT
EXPOiT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EDB. - Projected Income Statements, 1984 - 1989
(LE '000)
Years Ending 31 December                  1984      1985     1986      1987     1988      1989
I NOOME
Interest from Loans
Short-term - Foreign - Export                -       151      403      534       598       670
- Non export           -      300       780    1,020    1,110    1,170
- Local   - Export               -       180      480       636      712       798
- Non export           -      140       385      560       665      735
Long-term  - Foreign currency                -        47      282       811    1,570    2,438
- Local currency                 -        98      484    1,194    2,086    3,067
Sub-total                                -      916    2,814    4,755    6.741    8.878
Interest from Deposits
- Foreign currency             625       425      215       165      220       275
- Local currency               200       140      150       172      220       260
Guarantee Fund Admain. Fee                   -        92      135       178      190       209
Apex Spread                                  -         5       25        73      138       182
Other fees/commiosions                       -       100      350      850    1,600    2,500
Dividends from investments                   -        -         -        -         -       200
TOTAL INCOME                        825    1,678    3,689    6,193    9.109   12,504
EXPENSES
Interest Expenses:
Deposits   - Foreign                     -        -         -        -       400    1,100
- Local                      -         -        -        90      540    1,215
- Foreign                    -         -        -         -        -       120
Borrowings - Local                       -        -         -        -         -      200
Sub-total                             -        -         -       90       940    2.635
Salaries                                   350      650       780      936    1,123    1,348
Other Adm. Expenses                        860       390      470       560      675       810
Depreciation                               338      368       388       411      437       298
Provisions                                   -       100      380       720    1,080    1,520
TOTAL EXPENSES                    1,548    1,508    2.018    2,717    4,255    6.611
Profit before Taxes                       (723)      170    1,671    3.476    4.854    5.893



- 74 -
APNEX 3
Pagc 5 of 6
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EDB - Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1984 - 1989
(LE 'ODO)
Years Ending 31 December                 1984      1985     1986      1987     1988     1989
INFLOWS
NET PROFIT                               (723)      170    1,671    3,476    4.854    5,893
Depreciation                              338       368      388      411       437      298
Provisions                                  -       100      380       720    1,080    1,520
Capital Increases                      13,000   12,500   12,500   12,500          -        -
Long-Term Borrovings:
- Foreign currency                      -         -        -         -        -    2,000
- Local currency                        -             -             -         -    4,000
Loan Collections
- Foreign currency                      -         -        -       87       551    1,406
- Local currency                        -         -        -      125       746    1,787
Deposits Increase
- Foreign currency                      -         -        -        -    8,000    6,000
- Local currency                        -         -        -    2,000    8,000    6,000
TOTAL INFLOWS                   12,615   13,138   14,939   19,319   23,668   28,904
OUTFLOWS
Loan Disbursementst
Short-term - Foreign - Export               -    2,520    1,680        504      564      633
- Non export          -    5,000    3,000    1,000        500      500
- Local   - Export               -    3,000    2,000       600      672       753
- Non export          -    2,000    1,500    1,000        500      500
Long-term - Foreign currency                -       630    2,499    4,637    6,131    7,399
- Local currency                  -    1,500    4,450    6,590    8,008    9,610
Debt Repayment:
- Foreign currency                -         -        -        -         -        -
- Local currency                  -         -        -        -         -        -
Equity investments                          -       500    1,500    3,500    6,000    8,500
Fixed assets increase                   4,240       150      100       115      130       145
TOTAL OUTw'IWS                   4,240   15,300   16,729   17,946   22,505   28.040
NET CASH FLOW                    8,375   t2,162)   1.790)   1.373    1.163        864
Opening Cash                         -    8,375    6,213    4,423    5,796    6.959
Closing Cash                     8,375    6,213    4.423    5.796    6.959    7.823



- 75 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
EDB - Projected Balance Sheets, 1984 - 1989
(LE '000)
As of 31 December                        1984      1985     1986     1987      1988     1989
ASSETS
Cash                                      875    1,213    1,323    1,396    1,459    1,323
Bank deposits - Foreign                 6,000    3,000    1,300    1,900    2,500    3,000
- Local                  1,500    2,000    1,800    2,500    3,000    3,500
Total Cash & Banks                  8,375    6,213    4,423    5,796    6,959    7,823
Loans
Short-term - Foreign - Export               -    2,520    4,200    4,704    5,268    5,901
- Non export          -    5,000    8.000    9,000    9,500   10,000
- Local   - Export               -    3,000    r,000    5,600    6,272    7,025
- Non export          -    2,000    3,500    4,500    5,000    5,500
Long-term  - Foreign                        -       630    3,219    7,679   13,259   19,252
- Local                          -    1,500    5,950   12,415   19,677   27,500
Total Loans                             -   14,650   29,779   43,898   58,976   75,178
Provisions                              -       100      480    1,200    2,280    3,800
Net Loans                               -   14,550   29,299   42,698   56,696   71,378
Equity Investments                          -       500    2,000    5,500   11,500   20,000
Net Fixed Assets                        3,902    3,684    3,396    3,100    2,793    2,640
TOTAL ASSETS                       12,277   24,947   39,118   57,094   77,948  101,841
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Deposits - Foreign currency                 -         -        -        -    8,000   14,00Q
- Local currency                   -        -         -    2,000   10,000   16,000
long-term borrowings - Foreign              -         -        -        -         -    2,000
- Local               -         -        -        -         -    4,000
Total Liabilities                       -         -        -    2,000   18,000   36,000
Paid-in capital                        12,500   25,000   37,500   50,000   50,000   50,000
Reserves and retained earnings            500      (223)      53    1,618    5,094    9,948
Net profit in year                       (723)      170    1,671    3,476    4,854    5,893
Total Equity                       12,277   24,947        39,118    55,094    59,948   65,841
Total Liabilities and Equity           12,277   24,947   39,118   57,094   77,948  101,841
GUARANTEE FUND
Contingent liabilities                      -   12,300   18,000   23,800   26,200   27,900
Accumutated Provisions                      _       245      605    1,080    1,587    2,144



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
EGYPT                    Page 1 of 5
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
DIB - Condensed Income Statements, 1980-1983
(LE'000)
For Years Ending                     6/30/80   6/30/81     6/30/82   6/30/83
(6 mos.)
INCOME
Interest on Deposits                   153. 9     192.2      873.3      568.2
Interest on Local Currency Loans     3,347.3   10,803.5   16,372.6  21,170.1
Interest on Foreign Currency
Loans                                1,730.4    4,853.4    7,741.8  14,430.9
Other Income                         660.9    1,684.4    2,632.1   3,679.9
Total Income                       5.892.5   17,533.5   27,619.8  39,849.1
EXPENSES
Interest On Local Currency Debts     1,204.2    4,380.9    6,628.7   8,439.5
Interest on Foreign Currency
Debts                                1,196.1    3,340.7    5,641.3   8,935.8
Other aCarges                           63.5      436.8      498.4   1,022.6
Administrative Exper.ses               761.7    1,770.6    2,740.4   2,780.9
Provisions for Doubtful Debts        1,085.0    3,117.0    6,269.0   8,836.0
Other Provisions                       171. 9     144.8       582.5   1,179.6
Total Expenses                     4,482.4   13,190.8   22,60.3  31,194.4
Net Profit before Taxes              1,410.1    4,342.7    5,259.5   8,645.,
Taxes                                  815.1    2,858.7    3,75 9.5   5,695.7
Net Profit                             595.0    1,484.0    1,500.0   2,950.0
Appropriations
Reserves                               148.7      463.7       426.9     738.0
Dividends to CBE                       334.7      765.2      804.8   1,659.0
Dividends to Employees                 111.6      255.1       268.3     553.0
595.0    1,484.0    1,500.0   2,950.0
Ratios
Profit before tax/Av. Equity (X)        13.8       18. 9      20.0       30.5
Profit before tax/Av. Total
Assets (%)                               2.8        3.2         2.6       3.2
Admin. Expenses/Av. Total Assets (%      1.6        1.2         1.1.      1.2
Average Spread on Borrowing
(Excluding Current Deposits) (%)       5.3        6.3        4.4        4.2



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
EGYPT                           Page 2 of 5
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DIB - Condensed Balance Sheets, 1980-1983
(LE'000)
As of June 30                            1980         1981       1982        1983
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                         4,726.7     5,077.8      9,843.8    10,104.3
Other Current Assets                   5,724.9     7,421.0      7,254.1     3,626.2
Total Current Assets                  10,451.6    12,4   .8    17,097.9    13,730.5
Portfolio
Loans Outstanding                    101,139.6   153,348.4   234,375.6   316,171.8
(Less: Provisions fo-r
doubtful debts)                       (4,933.0)   (8,127.6)  (14,520.6)  (23,230.0)
Net Loans Outstanding                 96,206.6   145,220.8    219,855.0   292,941.8
Equity Investments                     1,370.7     1,567.1       2,864.8     4,474.0
(less: Provisions for likely
losses)                          .       (15.9)      (16.2)         (2.4)      (81.3)
Net Equity Investments                 1,354.8     1,550.9       2,862.4     4,392.7
Net Loans and Equity Portfolio        97,561.4   146,771.7    222,717.4   297,334.5
Net Fixed Assets                          15.9         19.4         18.9        18.9
Total Assets                         108,028.9   159,289.9    239,834.2   311,083.9
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Demand Deposits                        1,411.7     1,041.0       2,038.3     3,013.4
Time Deposits                            955.6     1,691.1       1,099.6     1,224.3
Other Current Liabilities              1,261.4     3!972.0       4,884.5     8,041.9
Total Current Liabilities              3,628.7     6,704.1       8,022.4    12,279.6
Long Term Debt
Deposits                               5,065.1      9,002.9     14,135.8    20,167.5
Central Bank of Egypt                 37,574.6    54,284.5      66,053.7    40,641.6
Other Banks                            2,555.0     2,509.8      17,979.3    57,924.3
Foreign Currency Loans                34,908.6    54,193.2      90,599.7   132,330.9
Total Long Term Debt                  80,103.3   119, 990.4    188,768.5   251,064.3
Administrative Provisions                520.2       558.7       1,000.4     1,324.8
Taxes & Dividends Payable              3,222.5     6,013.7      15,593.0    14,214.7
EQUITY
Paid-inrCapital                       23,000.0    25,000.0      25,000.0    30,000.0
Reserves                                 554.2     1,023.0       1,449.9    2,200.5
Total Equity                          20, 554.2    26,023.0     26,449.9    32,200.5
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY         108,028.9   159,289.9   239,834.2   311,083.9
RATIOS:
Current Ratio (times)                      2.3          1.9          1.3         1.1
Debt/Equity Ratio (times)                  3.8          4.4          6.7          7.3
Provisions and Reserves/
Port folio (%)                             5.4          5.9          6.7          7.9



- 78 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DIB - Projected Income Statements, 1984-1987
(LE '000)
For Years Ending June 30                  1984       1985        1986        1987
INCOME
Interest on local loans             24,582      28,830      32,954     38,521
Interest on foreign Loans           21,213      26,407      35,246     42,008
other Income                       4,482       5,020      5,423       5 745
Total Income                      50,277      60,257      73,623     86,274
EXPENSES
Interest Paid to local banks         9,160      10,496      12,551     14,744
interest paid on foreign loans      14,926      18,922     26,162      31,476
other expenses                          303        318         334        350
Administrative Expenditure            3,794      4,523       5,398      6,448
Admin. Provisions                       436        451         466        483
Provisions for Loan losses           8,957       9,631      10,343     11,014
Total Expenditure                   3772        44,342      55,255     64,515
Profit before Taxes                      12,705     15,915      18,368     21,757
Taxes                                8,705       9,915      11,368     13 757
Net Profit                                4,000      6,000       7,000      8,000



- 79 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DIB - Projected Balance Sheets, 1964-1987
(LE '000)
As of June 30                             1984       1985        1986       1987
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                          10,416      10,743     11,087      11,448
Other                                     3,626       3,626     3,626       3,626
Total Current Assets                    14,042      14,369     14,713      15,074
Portfolio
Outstanding loans                      374,364    459,019    551,477    641,290
Investments                              6,779      10,273     13,273      16,273
Provisions                             (32.454)   (42,391)   (53,040)   (64,360)
Net Portfolio                          348689    426,901    511,710    593,203
Government Bonds                           387         587        887       1,237
Net Fixed Assets                             79        139         199        259
Total Assets                           363,197    441, 9%    527,509    609,773
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Deposits                                 4,437       4,658      4,891       5,136
Other                                     9,664     10,124       9,148      7,297
Total Current Liabilities                14,101     14,782     14,039      12,433
Long Term Debt
Borrowers Deposits                      24,224      28,395     32,784      37,612
Central Bank of Egypt                   27,813      33,360     34,917      38,216
Other Banks                              77,500     97,500    117,500    137,500
Foreign Currency Debt                  166,197    212,242    263,439    308,866
Total Long Term Debt                   295,734    371,497    448,640    522,194
Administrative Provisions                 1,457      1,602       1,762      1,939
Taxes & dividends payable               11,705      14,415     16,618      19,757
EQUITY
Capital                                 35,0C0      35,000     40,000      45,000
Reserves                                  3,200      4,700       6,450      8,450
Total Equity                            38,200      39,700     46,450      53,450
Liabilities and Equity                 363,197    441, 996    527,509    609,773



- 80 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DIB - Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1984 - 1987
(LE '000)
For Years Ending June 30           1984        1985        1986        1987
INFLOW
Profit before Tax.                12,705      15,915      18,367      21,757
Provisions                         9,387      10,082      10,809      11,497
Depreciation                         150         150         150         150
Foreign Borrowings                58,247      72,675      85,169      92,813
Collections
Foreign Currency Loans            24,381      26,630      33,972      47,386
Local Currency Loans              25,372      29,913      38,558      45,211
Borrowing from CBE                   -         5,548       1,557       3,299
Borrowing from Local Banks        19,575      20,000      20,000      20,000
Increase in deposits               4,268       4,392       4,622       5,073
Increase in other Cr. Balances    1,113        1,169       1,227       1,288
Increase in Capital                5,000        -          5,000       5,000
Total Inflow            160,200     186,474    219,431      253,474
OUTFLOW
Disbursements
Foreign Loans                     58,247      72,675      85,169      92,813
Local Loans                       39,888      56,750      65,691      72,645
Increase in short term
loan balances                    9,810      11,773      14,127      16,952
Repayment of foreign
currency debt                   24,381      26,630      33, 972     47,386
Repayments to CBE                 12,829         -           -           -
Increase in current assets           312         327         344         361
Increase in investments            2,818       3,694       3,300       3,350
Increase in fixed assets             210         210         210         210
Taxes                              8,705        9,915     11,368      13,757
Distribution of Profits            3,000       4,500       5,250       62000
Total Out.lov           160,200     186,474    219,431      253,474



- 81 -
EGYPT                            ANNEX 5
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPME:NT PROJECT         PaRe 1 of 3
NBD - Condensed Balance Sheets, 1981-1983
(LE '000)
As of December 31                          1981         1982        1983
(unaudited)
ASSETS
Cash & Balance with Central Bank      37,738       89,399      43,030
Balances with Commercial Banks        26,742      121,285    267,266
Total Cash & Balances               64,480      210,684     310,296
Commercial Loans                      50,335      99,770      121,930
Investment Loans                       7,317        7,374      20,899
Equity Investments                    14,939      29,039       32,469
Total Loans a Investments           81,591      136,183     175,298
Fixed Assets                           1,689        3,967       7,286
Other Assdts  '                        3,160       .7,090       7,609
Less;  Provisions                        (616)     (1,912)     (3,500)
TOTAL ASSETS                      150,304     356,011      496,989
LIABILITIES & EQUIITY
Demand Deposits                      36,973       52,874      45,953
Time & Savings Deposits              29,957      68,037       91,451
Other Deposits                        8,875       12,209      47,081
Total Deposits                     75,805      133,120     184,485
Borrowings from Central Bank         18,282      85,461      100,815
Due to Other Banks                   21,988       79,267     136,870
Profit Distributions Due              4,105        6,589       8,092
Other Debts                           3,848       10,013      20,851
Total Liabilities                 124,028     314,450      451,113
Paid-in Capital                      22,552      35,786       37,500
Reserves & Retained Earnings          3,723        5,776       8,376
Total Equity                       26,275      41,562      45,876
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY        150,304     356,011      496,989
Guarantees & Other Contingent
Liabilities                       132,013      204,510     307,609
RATIOS
Cash & Balances/Deposits (Z)              85.1          158.3        168.2
Loans/Deposits (Z)                        76.0           80.5         77.4
Liabilities/Equity (2)                     4.7            7.6          9.8
Provisions & Reserves/
Loan Portfolio (M)                       7.5            7.2          8.3



- 82 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NBD -. Condensed Income Statements, 1981-1983
(LE '000)
Years Ending December 31                          1981             1982             1983
(unaudited)
INCOME
Interest Income                              8,440           18,540           22,836
Commissions & Others                         3,768            3,768            8,029
Total Income                              12,208           22,308           30,865
EXPENSES
Interest Expenses                            2,925            8,523           13,849
Administrative Expenses                      1,805            3,977            4,516
Depreciation                                    47               176             220
Provisions                                     581            1,296            1,588
Total Expenses                             5,357           13,972           20,173
Profit Before Taxes                        6,851            8               10,692
Taxes
Net Profit                               6,851            8,336           10,692
RATIOS
Profit Before Taxes/Aver. Equity tX)          26.0             24.6             24.5
Profit Before Taxes/Aver. Total Assets (%)   4.6                 3.3              2.5
Adm. Expenses/Aver. Total Assets tX)            1.8              1.6              1.1
Interest Spread (Z)                            7.4              5.7               3.1



- 83 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NBD - Financial Projections, 1984 - 1987
(LE '000)
Years Ending December 31                  1984            198i            1986            1987
A. BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
Cash & Banks                       248.9           290.7           304.8           353.5
Loans                              190.9           238.6           298.2           360.8
Investments                         45.4            56.7            70.9            87.9
Fixed Assets                         6.5             8.1            10.1            12.6
other Assets                        20.2            25.2            31.6            30.5
Less: Provisions                     5.7             8.8            13.0            18.4
Total Assets                     517.6           628.1           728.6           872.7
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Deposits                           270.6           337.7           422.2           527.8
Due to Banks                       161.8           187.3           194.1           217.6
Profit Distributions Due             9.8            13.4            12.5            15.2
Other Debts                         18.9            23.6            29.6            36.9
Total Liabilities                461.1           562.0           658.4           797.5
Paid-in Capital                     44.9           501.0            50.0            50.0
Reserves & Retained Earnings        11.6            16.1            20.2            25.2
Total Equity                      56.5            66.1            70.2            75.2
Total Liabilities & Equity         517.6           628.1           728.6           872.7
B. INCOHE STATEMENTS
INCOME
Interest Income                     30.9             40.7            51.8            63.6
Commissions & Others                 7.0              8.1            10.2             12.7
Total Income                      37.9             48.8            62.0            76.3
EXPENSES
Interest Expenses                   16.5             20.6            25.8            32.0
Administrative Expenses              6.0              7.1             8.6             10.6
Depreciation                         0.2              0.2             0.3             0.3
Provisions                           2.2              3.1             4.2              5.4
Total Expenses                    24.9             31.0            38.9            48.3
Profit Before Taxes               13.0             17.8            23.1            28.0
Taxes                                 -                -              6.5              7.8
Net Profit                        13.0             17.8            16.6            20.2



- 84 -
ANNEX 6
Page I of 3
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Mier - Balance Sheets, 1980 - 1983
(LE '000)
As of June 30                      1980            1981           1982            1983
ASSETS
Cash & Balance with
Central Bank                    305,582        262,787         653,450         593,277
Balances with
Commercial Banks                597,909        587,411         600 114         756 515
Total Cash & Balances           903,491        850,198       1,253564        1,3499792
Government Securities             116,779         152,061        154,008         148,243
Equity Investments                 22,461         30,59           38,748          59,581
Other Securities                   20,148          30,836         36,783          45,629
Total Investments               159,388        213,492         220,539         253,453
Loans to Banks                     40,279         98,193         156,002         286,210
Loans to Customers                915,375      1,556,082       2,150,995       2,327,725
Bills Discounted                      635          5,312           8,924          10,857
Loans to Government               150,000         60,000          45,000           -
Total Loans                   1,106,239      1,719,588       2,360,921       2,624,792
Fixed Assets & Others              31,149         28,450          43,571          47,770
Less: Provisions                  (75,839)        (94,358)      (139,463)       (172,377)
Total Assets                  2,124,478      2,717,370       3,748,132      4,103,432
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Demand Deposits                   601,378        682,477         872,140       1,040,942
Time Deposits                     515,320        666,090         995,582       1,285,852
Savings Deposits & Others         460,048        511,503         656,419         814,473
Total Deposits                1,576,746      1,360,070       2,524,141      3,141,267
Due to Central Bank                 1,250           1,250          1,250           1,250
Due to Other Banks                360,569        508,036         772,889         529,916
Foreign Borrowings                 30,389         89,549.        100,455          92,401
Dividends Payable                  13,995         24,099          29,244          36,975
Other Debts                        87,827        168,617         238,334         207,475
Total Debts                     494,030        791,551       1,142,172         868,017
Paid-in Capital                    11,000          15,000         20,000          20,000
Reserves                           42,702         50,749          61,819          74,146
Total Equity                     53,702         65,749          81,819          94,146
Total Liabilities
and Equity                  2,124,478      2,717,370       3,748,132      4.103,432
Guarantees & Other
Contingent Liabilities          586,359        869,235         862,458       1,121,162
RATIOS
Cash Balances/Deposits (Z)           57.3           45.7            49.7            43.0
Loans/Deposits (Z)                   70.2            92.4           93.5            83.6
Liabilities/Equity (times)           38.6           40.3            44.8            42.6
Provisions and Reserves/
Loan Portfolio (Z)                 10.7            8.4             8.5             9.4



- 85 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Miar - Income Statements, 1980 - 1983
(LE '000)
Years Ending June 30               1980            1981            1982           1983
(6 months)
INCOME
Interest on Loans                  33,295          99,681        170,721         227,216
Interest on Deposits               30,469          78,139          79,371         61,144
Total Interest Income            63,764         177,820        250,092         288,360
Income from  Investments            5,232          13,026          16,570         18,847
Comissions                         17,462          45,618          57,066         59,111
Other Income                        4,085           5 211          11,938         10,559
Total Income                     90,543         241 675        335,666         376,872
EXPENSES
Interest on Deposits &
Foreign Loans                    37,290         106,952         155,718        190,752
Interest to Banks                     327           1,030           1,151          2,710
Total Interest Expenses          37,617         107,982         156,869        193,462
Salaries and Wages                  9,483          26,607         36,687          38,766
Administrative Expenses             4,567          14,401          17,123         16,981
Depreciation                          380           1,987           1,842          1,152
Provisions                         10,539          25,773         46,800          46,800
Total Expenses                   62,586         176,750        259,321         297,161
Profit Before Taxes              27,957          64,925          76,345         79,711
Taxes                               5,614          29,133          30,274         28,456
Ne' Profit                       22,343          35,812         46,071          51,255
RATIOS
Profit Before Taxes/
Aver. Equity (Z)                   55.0           108.7           103.5           90.6
Profit Before Taxes/
Aver. Total Assets (Z)              1.4             2.7             2.4            2.0
Admistrative Expenses/
Aver. Total Assets (Z)              0.7             1.8             1.7             1.5
Average Interest Spread of
Loans over Deposits (Z)             1.0             2.1             2.8            3.6



- 86 -
ANNEX 6
P age 3 of 3
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Misr - Financial Projections, 1984 - 1988
(LE million)
1984         1985          1986          1987          1988
A. BALANCE SHEETS
Assets
Cash & Banks              1,539         1,754         1,900        2,080         2,300
Loans                     2,940         3,352         3,888        4,588         5,505
Investments                 278           306          337           370           407
Fixed Assets & Others        54            60            67            76           85
Less: Provisions           (213)         (261)         (322)         (398)        (486)
Total Assets            4,598         5,211        5,870         6,716         7,811
Liabilities & Equity
Deposits                  3,581         4,082        4,653         5,305         6,048
Borrowings 6 Other
Debts                     908           997        1,068         1,237         1,566
Total Liabilities       4,489         5,079        5,721         6,542         7,614
Paid-in Capital              '0            25            25            30           30
Reserves                     89           107           124          144           167
Total Equity              109           132           149          174           197
Total Liabilities
& Equity                _4598         5,211         5,870        62716         7,811
B. INCOME STATEMENTS
Income
Interest on Loans           256           295           306          403           471
Interest on Deposits         69            81            89          100           110
Income from Investments      21            23            25           28            31
Commissions                  67            77            90           107          127
Other Income                 11            13            15            18           21
Total Income              424
Expenses
Interest Expenses           232           268           310          363           424
Administrative Expenses      64            72            81            91          102
Provisions                   41            48            61           76            88
Total Expenses            337           388          452           576
Profit Before Taxes        87            99           113          126           146
Taxes                      31            35           40             a
Net Profit                 56            64            73           82            94



- 87 -
ANNEX 7
page 1 of 5
Eligibility Criteria for Sub-Projects
Introduction
1.       The criteria for export-oriented sub-projects (paras 5.07-5.08)
provide three basic tests of eligibility. The first sets a minimum percentage
of production (30%) attributable to the project investment within the
specified period (3 or 5 years depending upon whether an expansion/
rehabilitation or a new project is involved). The second sets an ERR
requircment (12%). The third requires sponsors to demonstrate that there is a
reasonabie probability that the project will in fact lead to exports, through
preparation of a satisfactory export development plan covering the time frame
within which the minimum export target is expected to be reached. This annex,
using examples, is intended to clarify how these criteria should be applied in
specific situations. It does not, of course, eliminate the need for judgement.
Production attributable to the investment
2.       The production "attributable to the investment" in the first
criterion means all production of a firm to which value has been added by
fixed assets financed under the project. It is to this production that the
minimum percentage (30%) is applied. In making this calculation, production
would be valued at international prices.
Example 1. The project to be financed is for the replacement of half of
the spinning frames in an integrated textile mill. Present mill output is
4,000 tons of finished fabric sold domestically at US$30 million (US$7.5
Kg). In addition to cost reduction and improved yarn quality, spinning
capacity will increase 30% as a result of the project. Since :loth weaving
and finishing equipment is substantially underutilized, total production
would also be increased by 30%. Export wil be sold f.o.b. at US$6/Kg.
Production "attributable to the investment" is as follows:
(a)  1/2 of existing level of output:  2000 tons valued at US$12.0 million
(b)  Full amount of expansion:          1200 tons valued at USS 7.2 million
Total:                  3200 tons valved at US$19.2 million
Required miminum export of 30% of the above is 960 tons valued at US$5.76
million.
Example 2. In the above example if the project is to modernize the
blowroom of the same mill which prepares the cotton used in all the
spinning lines without any increase in capacity, the production
attributable to the investment is total present output. The minimum
export requirement would be 30% of this, i.e. 1200 tons valued at
US$7,200,000.



- 88 -
ANNEX 7
page 2 of 5
Indirect Exports
3.       To meet the criteria for indirect exports it is not sufficient to
show simply that the reqitired percentage is being utilized by an eUortinR
firm. There must also be convincing evidence that the production is indeed
being used in actual export production. The following example illustrates
this principle.
Example 3. Firm A requesting finance under this loan as an indirect
exporter intends to produce 50,000 fractional horsepower electric motors.
It intends to meet the eligibility criteria by supplying 15,000 motors to
Firm B, a consumer durable manufacturer, which is producing 100,000 vacuum
cleaners annually of which 50,000 are exported. Firm D's vacuum cleaners
use electric motors of the same design and quality specifications
regardless of whether they are exported or sold domestically. Firm A
produces a letter that Firm B would consider purchasing 15,000 electric
motors if competitive in price and quality.
(a) On Lhe basis of the above facts, Firm A would not be eligible as an
indirect exporter even though 50% of the ouLput of the firm to which
it is selling (Firm B) is exported. The reason is that since Firm
A's sales can equally well be used domestically, only 50%, which is
the percentage of Firm B's exports, ca. be considered as exports.
Thus, its exports are calculated as 5OZ x 15,000 which equals 7,500
which is only 15Z of its total production.
(b) Alternatively, under the initial assumption that the same motor is
used for both domestic and export markets, if Firm A can provide
convincing evidence that 70% of its output would be sold to Firm B
(which might be the case if they had the same shareholders) then Firm
A would be eligible as an indirect exporter.  Its indirect exports
would be calculated as 50Z x 35,000 which is 17,500 motors equivalent
to 35% of production.
(c) Alternatively, if Firm A were to produce motors of a higher quality
better suited to the export market which would be exclusively used by
Firm B in its export products, then Firm A would qualify.
Economic analysis of sub-projects
4.       For the purposes of the second crit.rion, the project's output should
be evaluated in accordance with the usual methodology. This means that the
portion of output to be exported should be valued at international prices and
the balance at c.i.f. prices. For investments below LE800,000, the ratio of
the ex-factory price of products (exclusive of local taxes) to their c.i.f.
price should not exceed 1.
Export Development Plans
5.       There is a risk that projects which commit to export at the appraisal
stage would fail to meet their comitments later on, preferring simply to sell
on the domestic market. Even the proposal to extend investment incentives to
exporters on the basis of actual performance (para 3.12) may not be a



- 89 -
ANNEX 7
page 3 of 5
sufficient inducement. The PBs have primarily the sanction of accelerating
loan repayment for failure to meet a loan condition -- a drastic measure which
could adversely affect the willingness of sub-borrowers to make use of the
Bank credit line and is therefore not appropriate. Thus the scope to enforce
export commitments after a project is in production, is limited. In these
circumstances, the proposed loan places primary emphasis on project
preparation and appraisal to ensure that only sound projects with export
potential are promoted and that th,:e is a reasonable likelihood that under
the circumstances of the specific project they are likely to meet the minimum
export target of 30% of production.
6.       The principal mechanism of achieving this objective is the
requirement stated in the third criterion that each project prepares an export
development plan covering at least three years for expansion/rehabilitation
projects and five years in the case of new projects. For directly exporting
projects, this plan would target annual levels of exports and formulate an
action program to achieve these target levels. Client firms would be required
to make annual reports on progress in implementation and in meeting the
targets. PBs would refer clients to the EEPC, which can arrange appropriate
assistance either directly or from the Exporter Assistance Fund in preparing
export development plans.
7.       The export development plan, together with supporting data and
studies on which it is based must make a convincing case that the project is
export capable and that exports will in fact take place. While the elements
of this plan will vary from project to project, all plans need to show that
(i3 expected production will be competitive in specifications, price, and
quality in the selected markets, and that (ii) conditions exist that make it
likely that incremental exports to meet the minimum under the definition will
take place. Each plan must contain an action plan to show how each project
will attain export targets. The action plan must deal with all the steps
concerning market development and penetration, product design and adaptation,
efficiency improvement, organization and training, and technical assistance
arrangements needed to implement actions. Additional supporting evidence of
export likelihood, as relevant in each case, will include: (a) past exporting
performance; (b) detailed market studies; (c) already established marketing
channels; (d) orders from foreign importers. Also relevant is evidence
regarding the competing pull of domestic markets, such as the extent to which
domestic capacity will meet domestic demand at that time exports are
expected. Para 9 (below) provides a check list of items which need to be
addressed in the action plan.
8.       Indirectly exporting projects must also present an action plan.  The
action plan and other supporting evidence must make a convincing case that the
required minimum percentage of the project's production will indeed be used in
actual exports. They must show on the basis of actual contact that the
product intended to be produced is being used by firms that are now exporting,
or would be used in export-oriented projects which are being implemented. As
part of the appraisal process the PBs will be required to verify that
potential buyers will be bona fide exporters, that the proposed input product
meets their requirements, and that there are no special arrangements that
would preclude sales of the proposed indirect export.



- 90 -
ANNEX 7
page 4 of 5
9.       Following is a check list of items that should be covered in a
typical export development plan to be reviewed during appraisal. The elements
which appear in an export development plan will vary with different projects
as will the emphasis placed on different elements and the way in which they
are organized. In total, however, they should provide convincing evidence
that the project has the potential to achieve the minimum required export
level and that the project sponsors have a realistic plan to attain the target.
A.   Target Markets
- Location, size, growth rate
- product design, price, quality
- domestic and foreign competition
- market structure
- tariffs and other import protection
- health or other regulatory requirements
B.   Proposed Export Targets by:
- product
- country
- year
C.   Strategy elements to reach target levels
- Design, specification, quality level of products to be produced for
markets
- Marketing and sales channels
- Pricing strategy
- Packaging - needs and sources
- liransportation - needs and availability
- Promotion and Advertising
- Organization and Staffing (sales, recruitment, training)
- Inputs needed for export quality output - needs and sources
- Production costs to meet sales price requirements
- Obtaining licenses, permission, or special support from Government



- 91 -
ANNEX 7
page 5 of 5
D.   Required support to implement strategy
-    Past experience and present capability of firm and its sponsors
in relevant strategy elements.
-    Information and technical assistance needs in implementing
strategy elements in light of present experience and capability.
-    Proposed sources of infonmation and technical assistance and how
it will be used as appropriate, to supplement present capability
in various elements of strategy (joint venture partners, buyers,
consulting firms, recruitment of staff, foreign manufacturers,
individual experts (short and long term), staff training, etc.)
E.   Timebound Action Program
Time based action program to implement strategy in light of above
factors indicating major steps, activities, decisions, etc. in each
of the strategic areas, their interdependence, and when they are to
be taken in order to meet export targets.
F.   Other supporting evidence relevant to export credibility
-    present domestic price of proposed product compared with f.o.b.
price and relative profitability of each;
-    present and planned capacity to meet domestic demand;
-    expected future developments with regard to relative
profitability.



- 92 -
ANNEX 8
EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
During
Quarter Ending:                              Quarter           Camulative
FY-1985
March 31, 1985                             2.2                 2.2
June 30, 1985                              2.8                 5.0
FY-1 986
September 30, 1985                         3.4                 8.4
Decemcber 31, 1985                         4.1                12.5
March 31, 1 986                            5.5                18.0
June 30, 1986                              7.0                25.0
FY-1 987
September 30, 1986                         8.0                33.0
December 31, 1986                          9.0                42.0
March 31, 1987                             9.4                51.4
June 30, 1987                              9.6                61.0
FY-19s88
September 30, 1987                         9.6                70.6
December 31, 1987                          9.4                80.0
March 31, 1988                             8.8                88.8
June 30, 1988                              7.2                96.0
FY-198 9
September 30, 1988                         5.5               101.5
December 31, 1988                          4.5               106.0
March 31, 1989                             4.2               110.2
June 30, 1989                              3.8               114.0
FY-19 90
September 30, 1989                         3.2               117.2
December 31, 1989                          2.8               120.0
March 31, 1990                             2.6               122.6
June 30, 1990                              2.4               125.0



- 93 -
ANNEX 9
List of Documents in the Project File
Document        Item
Number        Number                           Item
I             1           Export Development Bank of Egypt - Law
1             2           EDB - Draft Policy Statement
1             3           Terms of Reference of Advisors on Banking, and
Export Credit Guarantee and Insurance
2             -           Development Industrial Bank
3                         National Bank for Development
4                         Bank Misr
5             1           Egyptian Export Promotion Centre - Work Program
5             2           TOR of Advisor on Product and Market Development
5             3           TORs of Advisors on Trade Information and Trade
Documentation
5             4           TOR - Senior Trade Promotion Advisor
5             5           EEPC - Timetable and 1984/85 work program
5             6           PPF for EEPC and EDB
6             -           TOR for consultant on Duty Drawback Scheme Study
7                         TOR for consultant on Simplification of
Export/Import Procedures






