Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
-t; 2q5q--T
Rept Ne. P-3854-EGT
REPORT AN]) RECOMMENDATION
(F THE
PREsIDENr OF IIE
INERNATIONAL BARK FCR RECONSTRUCTION ANID DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON:h A
PROPOSED LOAXN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US4125 MILLION
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN
EXPORT INDWJSTRI ES DEVELOF2KENT PROJECT
June 1, 1984
This document has a zestricted distrllmia and my be used by recipient o.y in the perfonumce of
their offical duties. Its contet my met otberwise he dischsed witho  Werid B_k ahda .



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currencv Equivalents
Calendar 1983       April 1984
Currencv Unit                  Egyptian Pound (LE)
Official Foreign                US¢ 1  =  LE 0.70        0.70
Exchange Rate                   LE  I  =  US$ 1.43        1.43
Rate for Co ercial              USS I  =  LE 0.84        0.84
Bank Transactions               LE 1   =  USt 1.20       1.20
Free Market Rate (variable)    USS 1  =  LE 1.10-1.20  1.15-1.25
LE 1   =  US$ 0.90-0.83 0.86-0.80
Fiscal {ear
July 1 - June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CBE      -      Central Bank of Exvpt
CED      -      Cabinet Committee on Export Development
DIB      -      Dex-elopment Industrial Bank
EDE      -      Export Development Bank of Egypt
EEPC     -      Egvptian Export Promotion Center
IC       -      Investment Center, Bank Misr
LIBOR    -      London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
NBD      -      National Bank for Development
PBs      -      Participating Banks
PA       -      Project Agreement
TAP      -      Temporary Admission Procedure



FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Arab Republic of Egypt.
Amount;           USS125 million equivalent, including capitalized front end
fee.
Beneficiaries:    Egyptian Export Promotion Center (EEPC), Export Development
Bank (EDB) and participating banks (PBs).
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms: The Government would on-lend US$118 million for the credit
component to EDB at an interest rate equal to the Bank rate
plus 1.25 percentage points. EDB would relend this amount
to the PBs with an additional spread of 0.25 percentage
points, and the PBs would onlend this to the subborrowers at
a minimum interest rate of 14Z. Amortization of the credit
component would conform substantially to the aggregate of
the amortization schedules applicable to the specific
investment projects financed out of the proceeds of the
proposed loan. The remaining Bank funds (USS6.7 million)
would be retained by the Government and provided as a grant
to EEPC and EDB for technical assistance and for
establishing an Exporter Assistance Fund. The technical
assistance components would be repavable in 20 years,
including 5 years of grace. The exchanze risk between the
Egyptian pound and the US dollar would be borne by the
sub-borrowers; the exchange risk with other currencies would
be borne by the Government.
Project           The project is designed to support a government program of
Description:      policy and institutional reform, intended to expand
manufactured exports. The project would: help finance
efficient export-oriented investments in the public and
private sector through several PBs whose appraisal
capabilities in th_s area will be upgraded; strengthen the
recentlv established EDB so that it can function as an apex
unit 'or the proposed loan, and also provide export credit
guarantees and insurance needed bv exporters; assist in the
restructuring and expansion of an export promotion agency
(EEPC); finance technical assistance to improve the
efficiency and marketing capabilities of exporters; and
finance specific studies of export policy and procedures as
part of an agreed action program to further improve the
policy and institutional environment for exports.
ITh docume h a r wid dtutxon and may be uxd by rcis only in the perfoinance oI
thei offil dute Its contets may nt ohrwi be disdod witho Wodd Dank authoizatn



- ii -
Project Benefits  The project would result in about USi30O million of
and Risks:        investments in 50 to 60 export-oriented sub-projects which
would export goods wortb an estimated USt135 million per
year at full operation and would create roughly an
additional 10,UOO jobs. It would help existing and
potential exporters upgrade export capability and diversify
product and market areas and help fill serious gaps in the
institutional framework of the sector. Through its
preparation, the project has already made an impact on the
policy and institutional framework, which would be continued
by means of an action program of reform in key areas. As
the first project in a complex area, this project has
obvious risks, which relate to the pace of policy reform and
the effectiveness of the institutions involved. However,
given action by the Government to date, its support for
policy reforms and the proposed measures, these risks are
considered acceptable.
Individual        Maximum subproject investment of US$20 million; maximtm
Subloans and      subloan size of USt5 million; free limit for each PB of
Free limits:      USt1.25 million.
Estimated Project Costs: 1/                  Foreign      Local      Total
-uS  S millio -
Project Investment                  150.0       150.0 21  300.0
Technical Assistance                  3.6 3/      -          3.6
Consultants                       (2.1)        -        (2.1)
Training Abroad                   (0.5)        -         (0.5)
Equipment                         (0.3)        -        (0.3)
Contractor Supervision            (0.3)        -        (0.3)
Contingencies                     (0.4)        -        (0.4)
EEPC Work Program                                5.7         5.7
Exporter Assistance hund              5.0        1.0         6.0
Front-End Fee                         0.3         -          0.3
Total Financing Required         158.9      156.7      315.6
Financing Plan:                              Foreign      Local      Total
-US $ Million-
Bank                                125.0         -        125.0
Government                             -         5.7         5.7
PBs                                   5.3      101.6      106.9
ExDort Firms                         28.6       49.4        78.0
Total Financing                  158.9      156.7      315.6
1/ Net of taxes and duties.
2/ Representing the estimated local costs of project investments financed by
the Bank line of credit.
3/ US$565,000 of this would be used to refinance a Project Preparation
Facility which has already been made available to EDB and EEPC for urgent
technical assistance requirements.



- iii -
Estimated Bank
Loan Disbursements:                  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  Fy9O
-  US-$ uili       ion-
Annual         5.0  20.0  36.0   35.0  18.0  11.0
Cumulative     5.0  25.0   61.0   96.0  114.0  125.0
Economic Rate
of Return:             N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5015-EGT, dated June 1, 1984.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEWOPENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTRS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$125 million to belp
finance an Export Industries Development Project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. Of the loan, US$118 million would be relent to the Export Development
Bank (EDB) for the credit component at an interest rate equal to the Bank rate
plus 1.25 percentage points. EDB would relend the funds for the credit
component to the participating banks with an additional spread of 0.25
percentage points. Amortization of the credit component would conform
substantially to the aggregate of the amortization scbedules of the individual
subloans. The technical assistance components would be repayable in 20 years,
including 5 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.     A report on "Current Economic Situation and Growth Prospects" (Report
No. 4498-ECT) was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 20, 1983.
This section is based on that report; country data sheets and macroeconomic
accounts are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.       During the 1950s and 1960s, Egypt developed a virtual command economy
with a dominant public sector, fixed, administered prices and a pattern of
trade weighted heavily toward eastern bloc economies. Beginning in 1974, the
Government began to gradually introduce an "Open Door" policy with the aim of
accelerating development by liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign
and domestic private investment.
4.       Supported by large external capital flows, the economy began to grow
faster in 1974 and 1975. This process was accentuated further during the
following five vears by a rapid rise in foreign earnings which helped narrow
the current account deficit while allowing imports to increase at a rapid
pace. During this period, Egypt exported a growing volume of petroleum at
favorable prices; a swelling number of Egyptian workers abroad remitted their
earnings in increasing amounts; the Suez Canal reopened; and tourist receipts
continued to grow. Between 1974 and 1980, earnings from these sources grew in
US dollar terms by 40% per annum, accounting for over 70% of export earnings
by 1980. The resulting increase in income stimulated the economy, which grew
by more than 9% per annum during this period.
1/   This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's
Report for the Water Supplv and Sewerage Engineering Project
(P-3653-EGT), distributed to the Board on October 5, 1983.



- 2 -
5.       The continuation of rapid inflation abroad and fixed prices at home
created growing distortions in the domestic economy. Controlled prices for
consumer goods, energy, transport, rents, public sector wages and foreign
exchange lagged far behind international prices and domestic prices for many
of the same goods in the uncontrolled parts of the economy, resulting in a
severe duality in Egypt's economy. Although the fixed prices avoided
stressful adjustments in the living standards of those with access to
controlled goods and services, they have created major strains and
inefficiencies in domestic production. Increasing consumer subsidies have
been conducive to high consumption, growing imports, unremunerative prices to
farmers and growing government budget deficits. Low energy prices have
permitted a rapid growth of domestic consumption, affecting the exportable
surplus of petroleum. Low transport tariffs have led to strained capacity and
inadequate investment and maintenance. Fixed rents have resulted in a severe
housing shortage. High employment and low wages in the public sector have
contributed to an exodus of skilled manpower from the public sector to higher
paying jobs abroad and to the private sector. An overvalued exchange rate has
discouraged non-oil commodity exports, while stimulating imports.
6.       Although since 1974 private sector investment, production and
employment have grown faster than in the public sector, the public sector is
still dominant, with 40% of total employment, 54% of value added, 60X of total
expenditure and 70% of total investment. The public sector finances have
generally been in the red; the overall deficit has recently been am-rnd 20% of
CDP.  Although foreign resources and public control over various forms of
private saving have financed a considerable portion of this, between 30% and
50% has been financed by borrowing from the banking system. Growth of
domestic credit accelerated through 1980/81, when it reached a .ate of 34Z.
Inflation has been 15Z to 20o per annum in the late 1970s and early 1980s.
7.       Given the external sources of income growth and the internal price
controls and policy constraints, the growth that accrued has been highly
biased. Fixed prices caused a shift in resources away from controlled (mainly
commodity producing) to free (principally trade and service) activities.
Within the commodity producing sectors, agriculture and industry, price
controls and subsidies distorted indicators of comparative advantage, causing
the largest profits in the production of the most land-extensive (e.g. red
meat) and most energy-intensive (e.g. aluminum) goods.
8.       At an estimated 43 million, Egypt's population is already large
relative to its quite limited arable land, with an average density higher than
that of Bangladesh or Indonesia. And this population is growing rapidly, by
2.5Z per annum, or by over one million people every year. Almost half of this
growth is concentrated in the greater Cairo area. The family planning
programs have been weak. The rapid economic growth of recent years has been
stimulate' by external circumstances and has had only deficient links to
agriculture, industry and services which in the end are the sectors where
productive gains can supply the resources for meeting needs and providing the
necessary jobs. For example, the Suez Canal and the petroleum sector account
for over 2uZ of GDP but only 1% of employment. While tourism and employment
abroad absorb considerably more Egyptians, their levels of activity have been
determined by external factors.
9.       The fast growth of external earnings which characterized the
1974-1980 period weakened sharply beginning in the sim-er of 1981, triggered



by a fall in oil prices. Increases in the volume of production and of exports
meant only modest rises in oil export earnings rather than the large increases
anticipated earlier. Along with the falling price of oil, workers'
remittances and tourist receipts also fell. Suez Canal receipts grew slowly,
rather than rising sharply as expected. As a result, there was a marked
deterioration in the key macroeconomic balances during 1981/82 (July 1981 to
June 1982). The current account deficit rose from US$2.3 billion in 1980/81
to US$3.5 billion in 1981/82 and the overall balance was a negative US$615
million. The government budget deficit rose from 18 of GDP in 1980/81 to 23Z
in 1981/82. The growth of the money supply spurted to 44Z in 1981/82.
Recent Developments
10.      The above situation was inherited by the Government of President
Mubarak in October 1981. The new Government has had to contend with both the
short-term resource scarcity and the longer-term structural constraints. The
deteriorating short-term trend was contained during the fiscal year ending
June 1983 despite a further decline in oil prices. While this reflects some
favorable circumstances such as low import prices and special military
exports, as well as a more normal flow of remittances, the improvement is
attributable in part to the authorities' own efforts. These included: (i)
measures to curb imports, particularly of consumer goods; (ii) measures to
liberalize the terms on which banks can attract workers' remittances from
abroad; (iii) curbs in the growth of both current and capital public
expenditures; and (iv) a tightening of domestic credit. As a result of these
measures and the favorable factors mentioned above, the balance of payments
showed a substantial improvement, with the current account deficit narrowing
to an estimated US$2.2 billion in 1982/83. The overall balance of payments
showed a surplus in 1982/83, allowing Egypt to reduce its short-term debt and
rebuild reserves. The fiscal situation also showed some amelioration,
although the overall public sector deficit still remained large (21Z of GDP).
Reflecting the credit controls, the pace of monetary expansion and domestic
credit growth recorded a marked deceleration, with money supply growing 28X in
the last fiscal year.
11.      In addition to the stabilization measures, the Government began to
deal with some of the country's longer-term constraints. The most substantial
change took place in the foreign trade regime where the Government has allowed
exporters to receive the most favorable exchange rate (the free market rate)
and has simultaneously taken steps to reduce export controls and strengthen
export promotion. At the same time, the commercial bank exchange rate was
allowed to depreciate, attracting additional workers' remittances and leading
to higher and more uniform exchange rates for price-sensitive imports. It
also took significant steps to simplify and strengthen investment incentives
for foreign and domestic private investors. There were some limited price
adjustments--for electricity, water charges, several industrial products and
agricultural commodities.
12.      The Government has formulated a new Five-Year Development Plan
(1982/83 to 1986187). In terms of coverage and detail, the plan represents a
very substantial effort. The growth and investment objectives of the plan,
while ambitious, would move the economy in the right direction. The plan
clearly recognizes the underlying structural problems facing the Egyptian
economy and the need for major policy reforms if the investment and growth
targets are to be met. The plan, however, contains few proposals for policy



- 4 -
action for reaching the stated goals. It is heartening that the plan's
objectives and basic thrust have been prominently eaJorsed. Nevertheless, it
remains to translate these goals more effectively into a series of policy
measures for implementation.
13.      The 1983/84 budget aims at a further improvement in the fiscal
balance in the current vear. Income tax rates were raised somewhat and
exemptions from customs duties were limited. A major budget proposal was to
substantially reduce the level of consumer subsidies, but this step has not
yet been taken. Parliament passed a law (Law 97 published August 4, 1983)
reforming in certain ways the organization and management of public sector
companies. The major changes are: an attempt to introduce a greater degree of
decentralization by creating holding companies to oversee the operations of
public sector companies, and greater control over biring by the management of
public sector companies.
14.      The election for the People's Assemblv at the end of May 1984 has
caused the postponement of the presentation of a budget for 1984/85. The new
Assembly will consider the budget towards the end of 1984, and any change in
policies will be known onlv at that time.
Development Potential and Constraints
15.      Although the Government was able to improve the short-run
macroeconomic situation in the balance of payments, public finances and the
monetary svstem, the longer-run structural problems discussed above still
remain. Furthermore, the external resource position facing Egypt during the
1980s inevitablv will be less favorable tban in the 1970s. Nevertheless,
given appropriate policies, Egypt has the potential for sustained economic
growth and development. Its population constitutes a large domestic market.
Notwithstanding that the country's agricultural land is limited, the Nile
River provides ample and reliable irrigation to all of it; favorable
year-round growing conditions would allow considerably higher yields that
those achieved so far. Egypt has a key geographical location, a relativelv
skilled labor force, somewhat varied raw r-aterials and major roserves of
energy; these would allow a substantial degree of industrialization and trade
in manufactured goods. Finally, despite the recent slowdown in their gro%th,
Egypt will continue to have access to foreign resources that can be used ',
supplement domestic savings for investment.
16.      The major constraints on developing this potential are the distcrtin',
policies enunciated. What is required is substantial adjustment in these
policies to arrest the growing duality of the economy and move it towards a
more unified and simplified incentive structure. These policy adjustments,
along with an appropriate investment program, will lay the basis for higher
productivity and growth from Egypt's domestic commodity producing sectors.
17.      Perhaps the most important adjustment needed is to raise energy
prices and to rationalize energy consumption through conservation measures.
Curbiog the growth of demand for energy and substituting natural gas for
petroleum fuels will make much wiser use of Egypt's energy resources and will
add to the exportable surplus of petroleum. The growth of consumer subsidies
needs to be contained by price increases and improved targetting to low income
groups. This will ease the burden on the government budget and consequent



- 5 -
inflationary pressure; and, along with increases in farm prices, vill reduce
the growth of imports of basic consumption goods. Agricultural prices need to
be raised for crops with high economic returns; controls over area planted and
over inputs should be relaxed. There is considerable scope to increase value
added in agriculture by shifting to a more intensive and highly valued pattern
of crop production and by motivating farmers to raise yields. The foreign
exchange rate should be unified and maintained flexible, reflecting the value
of foreign exchange to the economy, both to stimulate exports and ration funds
for imports. Improvements in the structure and operations of industrial
production through export promotion, exchange rate movements, more liberal
pricing and production control policy, an enlightened investment program and
greater autonomy in the management of public sector enterprises will have a
substantial impact on industrial productivity, employment and foreign exchange
availability. In addition to improving the efficiency with which resources
are used in the economy, most of these changes would have a favorable impact
on the mobilization of public savings and foreign resources to finance the
required investments.
18.      The medium-term outlook will depend on the pace and magnitude of the
necessary policy reforms. Clearly it would be unrealistic to expect rapid
adjustments on all fronts, and in some cases it miglht even be
counterproductive to make sweeping changes. But adjustment with deliberate
speed across a broad spectrum is required to lay the base for sustained growth
at rates close to those achievable, given the resources available to the
economy. Some progress in initiating the necessary policy reforms has been
made during the past year with World Bank assistance, and it is now important
to build on this momentum. The growth rates of the 1970s are unlikely to be
attainable in the 1980s. Nevertheless, assuming reasonable and effectual
policies, Egypt could maintain growth in the vicinity of 62 to 7% per annum in
the medium term. Although the public sector budget and current account
deficit will still remain high, they both should improve over the period; and
savings and investment can grow at rates that provide for longer-term growth
on a stable basis. Oil exports and Suez Canal revenues are not expected to
grow as rapidly as in the past; but non-oil exports have the capacity to
increase. The balance of payments vill by no means be as comfortable as it
was up to 1980, but with sound domestic policies the needed imports can be
financed by growing export earnings and by continued success in attracting
private foreign investment and official aid transfers.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.      At mid-1983, Egypt's publicly guaranteed non-military medi-m- and
long-term external debt was estimated at US$16 billion. Private
non-guaranteed debt is estimated at about US$600 million and total short-term
obligations, both public and private, are estimated to amount to a further
US$3.2 billion. Egypt's military debt is estimated to be in the range of US$7
billion. Of this, US$2.5 billion are obligations to the U.S. and US$1 hillion
to France.  In addition, military debt to Eastern Bloc countries is estinated
at about US$3 billion, but this is not being serviced. The volume and
structure of Egypt's mediumr- and long-term non-military external debt is
dominated by the large borrowing from official sources that occurred during
the 1975-79 period. External indebtedness grew by 38Z per annrm during that
period, although almost 25Z of official inflows were on a grant basis. By
contrast, external debt grew at an annual rate of 10% in 180'81 and 1981/82
and 9% in 1982/83. This reflects the marked slowdown in olficial aid



commitments and disbursements since 1979, with the cessation of capital
inflows from Arab countries, and the gradual impact of the conversion of the
bulk of the U.S. aid program to grants. In spite of increased commercial
borrowing, almost 80% of Egypt's external debt is owed to official creditors
and mostly on fixed concessional terms. The remainder is owed to private
creditors, at variable rates linked to LIBOR.
20.      External financing requirements are likely to remain sizeable in the
medium term given Egvpt's immense development needs and the more moderate
growth of foreign exchange earnings projected. At the same time, in view of
the adverse global aid outlook, Egvpt may bave to relv more on conventional
finance than in the past and at significantly higher interest rates.
Nevertheless, the debt service ratio is projected to remain in the 27-30Z
range in the next five years. Even without very rapid progress on the policv
reforms discussed above, Egypt would have the capacity to service its debt in
the medium term while maintaining essential imports and growing at socially
acceptable, if lower, rates of growth. As stated, higher rates of economic
growth would depend heavily on substantial policy changes; with these changes,
Egypt's creditworthiness would also be enhanced. In the short run, Egypt must
carefully manage its macroeconomic variables, particularly the balance of
payments, as it did in 1982/83, to maintain its liquiditv to meet its
immediate debt service obligations.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
21.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's seventy-first lending
operation to Egypt and would bring Bar.k and IDA commitments to US$3,291.1
million. 2/ Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted the
development of agriculture, industry, power and energy, water supply, family
planning, transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and education.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1984.
22.      In assisting Egypt's development, the Bank has followed a strategy
whicb involves entry into a wide spectrum of sectors in crder to provide not
only direct finance with its relatively limited resources but, equally, to act
as a catalyst for other bilateral and multilateral agencies, and as a spur for
initiating discussion and positive action on a coherent framework of policies
and investment proposals which can tackle the substantive issues. The
approach also includes delivery of technical assistance, not only for sound
execution of specific projects but for developing the domestic institutional
capabilitv to articulate and implement future policies and investment
programs. The Bank's deliberate multisectoral support has been differentiated
by sectors and tailored to the pace at which the Egyptian authorities can
reasonably be expected to address these issues and implement the programs.
23.      Industry illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's role.
Efforts under Bank financed projects have gone beyond the immediate objective
1/   This section is substantially the same as the corresponding part of the
President's Report for the Water Supply and Sewerage Engineering Project
(P-3653-EGT), distributed to the Board on October 5, 1983.
2/   Including the Construction Industry Project (US¢100 million) and the
Small and Medium Scale Industries Project (US$170 million), which are
scheduled to be presented to the Board of Executive Directors this fiscal
year.



-7-
of improving capacity utilization (two imports projects) and increasing
production capacity and supply of essential commodities in resource-based
industries (cotton ;inning, textiles, cement, steel and fertilizer projects).
The more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing policy and
structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank has financed six
subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food
processing, metals, and engineering industries, in order to assist the
Government in formulating a package of policy and investment proposals for
external financing. The Bank has provided substantial resources to Egypt's
private sector through financial intermediaries, a growing proportion of which
is reaching small-scale industrial enterprises. The Bank has also assisted
the Government in a comprehensive study of the construction industry with the
aim of strengthening its overall operations and removing the bottleneck it
represents to timely project execution. Finally, the Bank has discussed with
the Government studies of Trade Strategy and Investment Planning and of the
Development of Manufactured Exports (para. 40), which provide the basis of the
proposed project.
24.      The illustrative sketch discussed above is representative of the
multifaceted approach that the Bank has adopted in varying degrees in the
entire spectrum of the Egyptian economy. Projects being prepared for future
lending will follow this strategy, and the pipeline includes activities in
vocational training, power and gas development, energy conservation, public
sector reform, construction, transportation, water supply, agriculture
(including drainage), development finance, industry, and further support for
export promotion.
25.      Bank and IDA disbursements in FY83 represented 8% of Egypt's medium-
and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed were about 4% and 3%, respectively, as of June 30,
1983. In FY86, the Bank and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and
disbursed (excluding military debts) are estimated to reach about 7.5% and
4.4%, respectively. It is estimated that in FY86, debt service payments to
the Bank and IDA will be about 5.7% and 0.2%, respectively, of Egypt's
external debt service payments. With regard to disbursements, FY83 saw a
marked improvement over FY82, with Bank/IDA disbursements to Egypt increasing
from US$199 million to US$255 million. The Egyptian Government has placed a
high priority on improving overall project implementation, and it is
introducing monitoring practices to follow up the progress of projects
closely. As a result it is expected that loan/credit disbursements should
continue to increase in the future.
26.      IFC's equity participations and lending commitments for projects in
Egypt as of March 31, 1984, totalled about US$189 million and include: a
ceramics project, a ready-made garment project, a project for an agricultural
complex primarily for sugar beet, a poultry project, a fish farming project, a
building material project, a tourism project and a reinforcing bar project.
IFC is discussing several other private sector and joint venture projects. A
summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in Annex II.
PART III - THE EXPORT SECTOR
The Setting
27.      The sharp decline in the price of oil in 1982 and the levelling off
of foreign exchange inflows from other exogenous resources such as workers'



- 8 -
remittances, tourism and Suez Canal revenues -llustrate the vulnerability of
Egypt's economy to external influences. To overcome this problem and provide
the basis for self-sustained economic growth, the Government has begun
gradually to encourage export development and diversification in addition to
efficient import substitution. In view of the country's agricultural
constraints and growing population, the Government has selected industry to
bear the brunt of the required export effort.
28.      The pace of industrial development in Egypt has been very uneven.
Despite fairly high investment in manufacturing and mining (excluding
petroleum) during the last three decades-representing about 25Z of total
gross fixed investment--industry's share in GDP is estimated at only 14Z.
Output growth in the industrial sector has averaged 8Z annually during
1974-83--somewhat below the rate of GDP growth. Constraints in the
availability and effective use of foreign exchange for import of machinery,
semi-finished inputs and raw materials have had a greater impact on the
sector's overall performance than insufficient additions to capital formation.
29.      The state capitalism in the 1950s and widespread nationalizations in
the early 1960s virtuallv eliminated the private sector from large and to a
lesser extent medium-scale manufacturing industry and mining by 1963. In
spite of the liberalization process initiated in 1973, the bulk of the
industrial sector continues to be under government control. The 250 state
enterprises account for 661 of the value of total industrial production and
58% of total industrial employment. The basic industries (steel, engineering,
aluminum, fertilizer, chemicals, cement, cotton yarn and fabrics, etc.) are
largely in public hands. The share of the private sector, which is today
almost synonymous with small- and medium-scale industry, in total industrial
output has, however, increased rapidly during the last decade--from less than
a quarter to one-third--and this appears to be a continuing trend.
30.      The structure of output and orientation of industry have changed
somewhat during the last decade, but consumer goods remain dominant (51% of
manufacturing value added), followed by intermediate goods (36Z) and capital
goods (13Z). Textiles and foodstuffs continue to be the two largest
activities. Egypt's industrialization has historically been inward looking.
This characteristic of import substitution has persisted through the many
changes in the economic system, although the constant dollar value of
industrial exports has declined over the last two decades. By 1982,
manufactured exports comprised only 7% of manufactured output, compared to 20Z
in 1974.
31.      Part of the reason for this declining export performance can be
attributed to a major redirection of trade. The increased proportion of
Egypt's exports to hard currency areas since 1976 has not fully offset the
sharp decline of bilateral trade or clearing account transactions. Most
Egyptian exporters have had difficulty compe-;ing in these new markets which
they have found to be more demanding in terms of service, price, and quality.
Instead, Egyptian producers have preferred to concentrate on the heavily
protected domestic market which is more profitable.
Major Constraints to Expansion of Exports
32.      The najor constraints to sustained export growth are rooted in
Egypt's institutional and policy framework. One of the most important sources



-9-
of bias against exports has been the multiple exchange rate system. There are
currently three different foreign exchange pools in Egypt - the Central Bank
pool, the commercial bank pool and the free market -  each with its own
sources and uses of funds and with separate exchange rates. All transactions
in the Central Bank pool are at the official rate which has been set at 70
piastres to the dollar since 1979. This pool is supplied by receipts from
Suez Canal dues, petroleum and some agricultural exports and funds are used
primarily to service external government debt and to finance imports of basic
supply coumodities. The commercial bank pool is supplied mainly by cash
remittances from Egyptians working abroad, tourism receipts and the remaining
non-oil exports. An official commercial bank exchange rate was introduced as
a separate rate in August 1981 and has remained fixed at 84 piastres to the
dollar; although =any transactions, including remittance transfers, tourist
receipts, and import payments, now occur at rates between 108 and 116 piastres
to the dollar, close to the "free" or own exchange rate. The "free" or own
exchange market is supplied by remittances from Egvptians working abroad, aod
some tourist receipts. Private individuals and companies can buy foreign
exchange at a freely floating rate in order to finance imports or to invest in
dollar-denominated assets. Over the past year, the free market rate has
fluctuated between 110 and 125 piastres to the dollar. Since the second half
of 1982, the Government has been engaged in a dialogue on the exchange rate
regime with the IMF. The increasing depreciation of the official commercial
bank rate vis-a-vis the "free' market rate (by some 40% since mid-1979)
created serious problems for exporters, who were allowed to retain only 25% of
the proceeds of export sales for a maximum period of six months for their
import requirements, and were required to convert the balance at the less
favorable commercial bank rate.
32.      The compLex protection relzime, which makes domestic sales of
non-controlled products generally quite profitable, also acts as a
disincentive to exports. Protection in Egypt results from the combination of
Ci) a cascading tariff structure with noninal rates generally well ever 100'
for consumer goods; (ii) product specific indirect taxes on production and
consumption; (iii) an elaborate economy-wide system of price controls and
subsidies; (iv) import licensing requirements which regulate imports of some
135 different products if local supply is deemed adequate; and (v) various
other administrative practices such as requirements of large advance deposits
on imports. The effective protection rate, which this complex system creates,
varies widely between different product groups and sectors and even between
producers of the same product depending on their legal status, thus preventing
efficient investment allocation-
33.      The institutional framework supporting export development has been
weak. The agency responsible for this activity, the Egyptian Export Promotion
Center (EEPC), until recently, has not been very effective; it has lacked
private sector involvement and strong leadership; it has been narrowly
concerned with "downstream" marketing and promotional activities, and has been
unable to recruit and retain capable professional staff. Moreover, there has
been no higb-level political body to coordinate export-related policy
decisions among the various ministries and agencies concerned.
35.      Complex and time-consuming export and import control procedures have
been another deterrent to potential exporters, especially in the private
sector. This has impeded the developmert of an export commitment among
manufacturers and traders, wbich is vital to the success of any export



- 10 -
activity_ The two major _chemes through which exporters can obtain inputs at
world prices have both been largely ineffectual. The first, the Temporary
Admission Procedure (TAP), is a scheme under which an import is allowed entry
free of dutv, against the posting of a bank guarantee. Because of complex
procedures, onerous guarantee requ-irements and long delays in obtaining
release of the required guarantee, the scheme has not worked well. The second
system, a duty drawback scheme, requires the exporting firm to import the
required inputs under normal procedures, pay the customs tariff and other
taxes, and obtain a refund of the import duty after exporting the goods. This
scheme has not been widely used because it is administratively cumbersome,
uncertain (import licenses may be denied if the product is on the list of
locally produced products), and incomplete (only custom duties, not
supplementary taxes nor the costs of advance deposits, are covered).
36.      Inadequate production capacity, human resources and infrastructure
have also worked against exports. Public sector managers, who have
insufficient autonomy over key areas of company operations, generally lack
modern management skills and technical and marketing know-how to compete in
export markets. Emerging shortages of trained and experienced personnel and
skilled labor have beceme a problem. Infrastructure facilities, particularly
in communications, storage and transport, are inadequate and costly, and the
lack of technical services (especially consulting engineering, packaging and
sub-contracting) place Egyptian exporters at a competitive disadvantage.
Capacity constraints have seriously inhibited export capability in many
product areas where Egypt has a comparative advantage.
Institutional Finance for Exports
37.      Unlike most exporting countries, financial institutions in Egypt do
not provide adequate credit facilities and services needed by exporters to
sell successfully abroad. Short-term export finance is extended by the four
public sector commercial banks primarily to large exporters. Medium- and
long-term financing of investment projects, including export-oriented
projects, is provided mainly by the Development Industrial Bank and to a much
lesser extent by a few joint venture investment banks. Exporters of
non-traditional items, particularly those in the private sector, face
difficulties in obtaining adequate financing from banks for working capital
needs and in offering deferred credit to foreign buyers on competitive terms.
Commercial banks generally follow conservative and time-consuming lending
practices with regard to financing exports: confirmed letters of credit are
required for most transactions, and loans are granted for only about 5OZ to
60% of the value of the contracts.
38.      Cost of Capital in Egvpt.  Incerest rates on deposits and loans in
local currency for all financial institutions are regulated by the Central
Bank of Egypt (CBE). Since 1976, lending rates have increased from 7-8% to a
maximum of 13% for industrial and agricultural credit and 13-15% for services,
and a minimum of 16% for commercial credit. Since October 1983, the CBE has
fixed the interest rate on export loans between 10% and 13Z, but in practice
banks generally charge at least 13% and very often treat loans to exporters as
trade sector advances, for which the minimum interest rate is 16Z. On the
basis of the Bank's estimate of recent inflation in Egvpt (18% in 1982 and 17%
in 1983), these interest rates have been negative in real terms. Since
inflation is projected to decline in the coming years, interest rates are
expected to become gradually positive in real terms.



- 11 -
39.      Interest rates on foreign exchange loans are not regulated by CBE and
reflect the six-month London Inter-Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR), currently about
12Z, plus a spread of about two percentage points. The minimum interest rates
on foreign currencv loans to be charged by banks participating under the
proposed project would be 14Z; other charges, such as commitment and front end
fees, increase the cost of these funds to about 16Z.
Government's Strategy for the Development of Exports
40.      Egypt enjoys a strategic location for potentially exporting to
Europe, Africa and the Middle East as well as a comparative advantage in a
large number of product areas (textiles and garments; food, leather and wood
products; engineering goods; and miscellaneous cbemical products). In order
to realize Egypt's potential for exports, the-Government realizes that several
constraints must be overcome. The Five-Year Plan targets manufactured exports
to grow by 12Z per annum during FY83-87 and, in a major departure from
previous plans, assigns excort targets in important industries. During
discussions of two Bank reports (Egypt: Issues of Trade Strateg, and
Investment Planning (4163-EGT) and Egypt: A Program for the Development of
Manufactured Exports (4580-EGT)), the Government and the Bank reached a
consensus on a strategy for the medium term, covering policy and institutional
reforms and other supportive measures needed to foster manufactured exports
(para. 43). The Government has already begun to implement the most urgent of
these reforms.
41.      In April 1983, the Government corrected the bias against exports from
the exchange rate regime by allowing exporters to convert export proceeds
(with the exception of a few agricultural products) at the "free" market
rate. By equalizing the exchange rate for imports and exports and removing
retention limits, the financial disincentives against exports were removed. A
high-level Cabinet Committee on Export Development (CED) was established in
July 1983 to review trade policy issues and introduce necessary reforms, and
it has already taken a number of decisions to promote exports: a new
Under-Secretariat for Export Development has been established in the Ministrv
of Economy to coordinate policy actions; export and import procedures are
being simplifipd and with regard to the TAP, the guarantee requirement has
been reduced and all TAP decisions and activities consolidated in a single
Customs department, which should facilitate its use by exporters; and the EEPC
is being reorganized under a new chairman along the lines recommended in the
Bank's Export Development Report (para. 48). A new Export Development Bank
(EDB) has also been established (paras. 53-55). Lastly, the Government,
through a new law (97 of 1983), is attempting to reform the management of the
public sector. The major changes planned are: greater decentralization
through the creation of holding companies to oversee the operations of public
sector companies and more control by management over hiring. The companix.s
are also allowed to provide increased incentives and bonuses.
42.      Preliminary indications are that these recent changes are beginning
to stimulate exports. However, more needs to be done. In order to sustain
high economic growth in the coming decades, Egypt's manufactured exports will
need to grow at twice its projected GDP growth rate. The private sector,
which is involved in product areas where Egypt has a comparative advant'ge,
must be encouraged to contribute more to the export effort. Investment



- 12 -
incentives and import-export procedures, including the TAP and duty drawback
system, should be further improved. The EEPC and EDB need to be developed.
Standardized pre-shipment and post-shipment financing schemes should be
introduced; and to induce commercial banks to use such schemes, EDB should
introduce an export credit guarantee scheme to lower the credit risk of
comnercial banks. Finally, a fundamental reform of the protection system is
required to promote economic efficiency. The reform should aim at substantial
reductions of effective protection rates, harmonization across product
groups/sub-sectors and unification of incentives between the public and
private sectors. However, this is a very complex issue, since reform of the
protection system must go hand-in-hand with reform of deeply rooted,
economy-wide price distortions and subsidies and simplification and reduction
of export/import controls, since effective protection in many instances
results from a combination of all these factors. Under the proposed project,
an important start toward this would be made (para. 47).
Bank Strategy in the Sector
43.      The Bank's strategy in the export sector aims at assisting the
Government in adopting an appropriate policy and institutional framework
required to expand exports significantly and increase productive capacity in
export-oriented industries. The complexity of the proposed reforms requires a
sustained long-term effort involving actions in a number of interrelated
areas: i) reforming the protection regime to correct the bias against
exports; (ii) simplifying the complex and time-consuming export and import
control procedures; (iii) establishing effective institutions to promote and
develop exports; (iv) providing finance, particularly to private sector
projects, to increase the capacity of industries with export potential; (v)
improving the system of export finance; (vi) undertaking reforms to enhance
the export potential of public sector firms by improving their technical and
marketing capability and their ability to operate on a more business-like
basis; and (vii) overcoming infrastructural deficiencies in such areas as
communications, storage, packaging, transport, and technical services, which
place Egyptian exporters at a competitive disadvantage. The Bank proposes to
take a graduated approach, helping the Government to tackle selected issues
and adjusting its future response to the progress achieved in specific areas.
The proposed project, the first in a series of activities targetted at the
export sector, would concentrate on belping the Government accelerate the
program of policy and institutional reforms it has already begun; it would
also assist individual companies improve their export performance through the
provision of financial and technical assistance. The Bank would continue to
assist other activities which have relevance to the export effort such as
transport infrastructure and manpower training. Lastly, the Bank is also
helping the Government in a review, just being launched, of a number of public
sector enterprises in the context of the new public sector reform law, with a
view to improving their long-term efficiency.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.      The project was identified and developed in the context of
discussions on the Report on the Development of Manufactured Exports (No.
4850-ECT) in November 1983 and was appraised in January-Februarv 1984.
Negotiations were held in Washington Hay 15-19, 1984, with the Egyptian
delegation led by Dr. Erfan Shafey, First Undersecretary, Ministry of



- 13 -
Investment and International Cooperation. The main features of the project
are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5015-ECT) dated June 1, 1984, is being distributed
separately.
Project Objectives and Description
45.      The major objectives of the proposed project are to assist the
Government in: (i) instituting its policy reforms through a three-year action
program; (ii) strengthening the Egyptian Export Promotion Center MEMC); (iii)
increasing the availability of export finance to exporters from comercial
banks through assistance to the Export Development Bank (EDB) to belp it
develop export credit and insurance facilities; (iv) expanding Egypt's export
base through investments in new and existing export-oriented industries,
particularly private sector firms; (v) improving export competitiveness of
industries with comparative advantage through appropriate investments and
technical assistance; and (vi) increasing the capacity of EDB and the
participating banks (PBs) to appraise and supervise loans in the sector.
46.      The proposed Bank loan of US$125 million, including a capitalized
front-end fee of USgO.3 million, would be allocated as follows: Ci) action
program activities (US0.1 million) to finance tecbnical assistance in support
of the three-year action program; (ii) tecbnical assistance to the EEPC
(US$Z.l million); (iii) technical assistance to the EDB and the PBs (US$0.5
million); (iv) an Exporter Assistance Fund (US$3 million) to finance technical
assistance needed by exporters in a variety of areas; and (v) a line of credit
for export-oriented projects (US$118 million) for fixed investment and
pernanent working capital of public and private sector companies as well as
technical assistance associated with these investments. Of the amount
allocated above for technical assistance for EDB and EEPC, US$565,000 has
already been made available through a Project Preparation Advance, wbich would
be refinanced under the proposed loan. The Advance is being used to finance
the urgent technical assistance and trainiog needs for the two institutions in
order to ensure smootb project start-up and execution.
Technical Assistance and Training
47.      The technical assistance to be provided under the project covers
four areas- The first is technical assistance in support of a three-year
action program to continue the work already begun to improve the policv
environment for export promotion and development. The program and timetable
for completing its various stages during project execution have been agreed
with the Government and would focus on the following major elements: Ci) the
study of import/export procedures, with particular emphasis on TAP, in order
to formulate and implement specific proposals for their simplification and for
improving the organizational framework for their administration; (ii) the
study of the duty drawback system in order to simplify the procedures and the
organizational framework for its administration and implementation of the
recommendations for reform; (iii) the study of incentives to be provided to
exporters in order to formulate and implement proposals for providing
additional incentives to them based on actual export performance; Civ) a
review of the systems, regulations and procedures which provide effective
protection to local products (including customs tariffs, other indirect taxes,
price controls, subsidies, import/export controls, etc.) with a view to
preparing proposals for their reform; upon completion of the review, the



- 14 -
Government and the Bank would discuss what further actions are required to
initiate reform; and (v) the formulation and implementation of a scbeme for
guaranteeing pre- and post-shipment finance provided to exporters. The first
four tasks would be done under the auspices of the EEPC; the last, under EDB.
A coordinating committee under the Ministry of Economy (consisting of
representation of the ministries concerned, EDB and EEPC) would provide
assistance to EDB and EEPC in carrying out these studies. The Government
would discuss the proposals with the Bank and implement the agreed
recommendations (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
48.      The second is a technical assistance program for EEPC. EEPC is being
restructured with broader private sector representation to be a focal point,
coordinator, and catalyst for export promotion activities, and to assist the
Government in developing the policies and procedures needed to improve the
export climate and in monitoring their effectiveness. This reorganization
would be in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01(b)). The technical assistance component would finance advisors
and consultants to assist EEPC in executing an agreed three-year work program
in the following areas: (i) product and market development: EEPC would work
with a core group of 75 firms (initially in five product areas) to identify
supply constraints, develop programs to penetrate markets, facilitate the use
of consultants by these firms, and undertake study tours and market surveys
for its staff and exporters; (ii) specialized support services: EEPC would
assist exporters in product design, quality control, packaging, transport,
export finance, and public relations; (iii) trade information and
documentation: EEPC would provide information for use by exporters in trade
promotion and marketing; (iv) training: training would be organized in Egypt
and abroad and EEPC's training unit would be strengtbened to train EEPC's
staff in the above areas and manage and coordinate appropriate programs for
exporters, service organizations and government agencies; this unit could
become the nucleus of a separate training institute in the future; and (v)
general organizational support: an experienced resident Senior Trade
?romotion Advisor would assist EEPC for two vears in developing strategies,
policies and work programs, recruiting staff, coordinating the technical
assistance program and in developing detailed guidelines and operating
procedures of the Exporter Assistance Fund (para. 51); and short-term
consultants would help develop an internal corporate plan and improve EEPC's
accounting system.
49.      The execution of the program would be entrusted to an agency sucb as
the International Trade Center or a consulting firm, which would be
responsible for recruiting the technical assistance team, providing training
equipment, general administration and technical support. The execution of a
contract between EEPC and the agency or firm, satisfactory to the Bank, would
be a condition of disbursement for this component. An in-deptb review of
progress during the first year of this program would be undertaken by the Bank
and EEPC. The Government would make available to EEPC the LE 4.7 million
required for this program and for its general operations during the execution
of the project (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01(a), 3.06 and Schedule 1, para.
4(b)).
50.      The third area comprises a program of technical assistance for EDB
and the PBs. For EDB, the program would consist of: (i) advisory assistance to
develop and help execute sound policies and procedures relating to EDB's
general banking functions and to the guarantee and insurance schemes;



- 15 -
(ii) training programs to be developed and taught by outside experts for EDB's
own staff and for commercial bankers participating in the new schemes; (iii)
consulting assistance to establish accounting and management information
systems; and (iv) a small amount of office equipment and supplies. EDB would
subcontract the execution of this program to an international agency or an
experienced consulting firm. In addition, this component would finance the
foreign exchange cost of a training program for the PBs, which would be
designed and implemented by the Institute of National Planning focussing on
export aspects of project appraisal. The PBs would bear their share of the
costs of this program.
51.      Finally, an Exporter Assistance Fund (the Fund) would be established
to assist exporters in such areas as pre-feasibility and related studies for
export-oriented projects, export market identification and development,
product upgrading and development, improvements in production and cost
efficiency and training of staff in both market- and production-related
activities. The Fund would finance up to 50% of the costs on a grant basis
with the balance funded by the firms themselves, which should provide ample
incentive to utilize the Fund. To ensure that a reasonable number of firms
benefit, while allowing sufficient funds for realistic programs, there would
be a limit of US$100,000 per firm. The Fund, which would complement the
technical assistance efforts of EEPC, would assist trading and manufacturing
exporters in the private sector. Public sector firms would be eligible to
receive funds for similar activities from the Bank's line of credit (para.
59), since their requirements are likely to exceed the maximum funding
available from the Fund. Also they are less likely to require an inducement
to undertake such activities. The Fund, for which the Government would open a
special account, would be managed bv a sub-committee of EEPC's Board with the
assistance of staff from EEPC. EEPC would develop detailed guidelines,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the procedures, eligibility requirements and
operation of the Fund, with the assistance of the Senior Trade Promotion
Advisor (para. 48), prior to the disbursement of Bank funds for this
component. During project execution, EEPC would review the Fund's operation
with the Bank including any recommendations for changes, if needed (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05, Schedule 1, para. 4(c)).
The Credit Component
52.      The line of credit would be made through EDB, which would act as an
apex institution and onlend the funds on a first-come-first-served basis to
three PBs (the Development Industrial Bank (DIB), Bank Misr and the National
Bank for Development (NBD)). This should help ensure rapid utilization of the
Bank loan. EDB would maintain accounts of loan utilization and repayments and
act as a central monitoring agency to ensure that the various criteria and
targets for the loan as a whole are observed (paras. 59-61), which should help
increase its familiarity witb appraisal procedures. EDB would participate in
the credit component at a later date (on the same terms and conditions as the
PBs) once it has sufficiently strengthened its term lending capabilities (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(b)(viii)).
The Apex Institution and the Participating Banks
53.      EDB was established July 30, 1983 as a joint stock company with an
autborize[Tapital of LEIOO million. Besides regular commercial bank



- 16 -
activities, EDB is assigned a major responsibility for export promotion. To
attain this objective, it is authorized to lend in local and foreign currency
to existing and proposed export-oriented enterprises for working capital or
investments, extend guarantees on their behalf, refinance loans extended to
such enterprises by other banks, finance import requirements of exporters and
carry out non-banking activities for the promotion of Egyptian exports. Two
additional important functions specifically entrusted to EDB are, firstly, tbe
issuance of loans and guarantees to foreign banks and importers, and secondly,
the operation of a scheme for insuring Egvptian exporters against commercial
and non-commercial risks, at both the pre- and post-shipment stages.
54.      In the short-term, EDB plans to concentrate on guaranteeing and
refinancing export loans. Equity investments and project lending would
follow, as EDB builds up its lending capability. EDB's policy statement,
including priorities for the next three years, has been agreed with the Bank
(EDB Project Agreement (PA), Section 2.08). EDB's board has been appointed
and the proposed organizational and staffing structure is appropriate for its
activities; the chairman is in the process of recruiting the necessarv staff
and plans to have the organization adequately staffed by December 1984. The
salarv scales approved by EDB's board are high enough to attract and retain
qualified and experienced staff. In order to ensure the smooth execution of
the proposed loan, the recruitment of adequate professional staff for EDB's
apex unit and the establishment of a system to enable EDB to keep accounts of
rhe proposed loan would be conditions of effectiveness (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01(c); EDB PA, Section 2.02). EDB has already invited proposals
from consultants to set up accounting, control and management systems, which
are expected to be in place by December 1984.
55.      There is little reliable bistorical data on which projections of
EDB ts export-oriented or commercial banking functions can be based.
Nevertheless, EDB in consultation with Bank staff has prepared projections for
its first five years, based on conservative business expectations, which are
reasonable. EDB would clearly become a financially viable institution and be
able to cover its operational costs during its first full operating year
(1985). Net profits before taxes are projected to reacla 9.4Z of average
equity bv 1989, consistent with institutions undertaking similar promotional
activities which tend to be less profitable than commercial banks. EDB's
debt/equity ratio would be very low (below 1:1 even in 1989) as EDB would be
operating largelv out of its equity funds through 1988.
56.      DIB, a public sector development bank established in 1975, has its
head office in Cairo and branches in Alexandria and Tanta. Its paid-in
capital of LE34 million is held entirely by the Government. DIB is subject to
supervision bv the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE). In its association with the
Bank, DIB has successfully implemented four industrial development projects;
and its performance under the fifth exceeds appraisal estimates. DIB has also
participated in two agroindustries projects. DIB quadrupled its lending
operations between 1979 and 1983; at the same time, the proportion of its
medium- and long-term foreign currency operations increased, so that DIB has
achieved its objective of becoming primarily a provider of medium- and
long-term foreign currency investment funds to private industry in Egypt.
Besides becoming Egypt's premier institution for long-term industrial
development finance, DIB's lending for small- and medium-scale industrial
enterprises has also increased from 20% of total term lending in 1978 to 40%



-17 -
in 1983. DIB's portfolio is sound and is well diversified among industrial
subsectors. Between 1979-83, before tax return on average equity ranged
betwecn 9Z and 30X per annum, and its assets over the same period grew at an
average annual rate of about 40X. With a satisfactory liquidity situation and
a long-term debt-equity ratio of 7.3:1 as of June 30, 1983, DIB has a strong
financial position and is well placed to continue expanding its operations.
57.      Bank Misr, established in 1920, is Egypt's second largest commercial
bank, with about 300 branches throughout Egypt. It is a joint stock bank, and
its entire paid-in LE20 million share capital is held by CBE. Bank Misr's
portfolio consists mainly of short-term loans for commercial and trading
activities, but with the establishment of a separate "Investment Center" (IC)
in 1976, it has been increasing its medium- and long-term financing activities
with the assistance of three Bank projects. lechnical assistance under these
projects has helped improve Bank Misr's devel,pment finance activities and
its project appraisal and subborrower assistarce capabilities. In order to
further stren8Zhen the IC, Bank Misr has agreed to increase its staffing and
implement a policy statement to guide the IC's development finance accivities.
Bank Hisr's total assets increased 93% to LE4.1 billion between 1980 and
1983. Financial results have been satisfactory, with profits after taxes and
provisions increasing to LE51 million for the year ending June 30, 1983, a
return of 54% on its equity.
58.      NBD was established in 1980 as a private commercial bank under Law 43
with an authorized capital of LE50 million. The main shareholders are a
varietv of public institutions, including the four large commercial banks. NBD
has its headquarters in Cairo; it is affiliated to 15 regional banks. With
the implementation of an agreed plan to reorganize and increase the staff of
its investment department, NBD would be adequately staffed and organized to
carry out its commercial and development finance activities. In order to
better focus its policies and priorities, NBD would put into effect a policy
statement satisfactory to the Bank. NBD's appraisal and supervision efforts
have improved steadily since it started operations, especially in
agroindustries, in collaboration with the Bank under the Second Agroindustries
Project (Ln. 2243-EGT). In three years, NBD has been very successful in
building up its commercial bank activities and is slowly gaining expertise in
development finance. As of December 31, 1983, NBD's total assets bad
increased to LE497 million, and its liquidity was high. NBD's profits before
taxes have also been satisfactory, at about 25Z of equity each year.
Subloan Criteria
59.      The line of credit would be used by the PBs to finance the foreign
exchange costs of fixed assets and associated permanent working capital of
public and private sector firms; it would also finance technical assistance
needed by firms as part of the initial project investment. It has been agreed
with the PBs that for subprojects to be eligible for financing they should
meet the following criteria: (i) give a commitment to export, either directly
or indirectly, at least 30% of production attributable to the investment being
financed, within five years from start-up of production for new projects, and
within three vears for expansion or rehabilitation projects; (ii) demonstrate
for project investments greater than LE800,000 an economic rate of return of
at least 12%; and (iii) prepare a satisfactory export development plan,
according to detailed criteria agreed witb the Bank, which analyzes key



- 18 -
factors affecting the export potential and capability of the project and
develops a monitorable action program to be implemented by the firm in order
to meet the export target (PBs PA, Sections 2.03, 2.04(e)). Subborrowers for
indirectly exporting projects would provide evidence that direct exporters
consider the project's output competitive with regard to price and quality and
would be prepared to purchase their products as inputs in sufficient quantitv
to enable the project to meet its export target. PBs would require
subborrowers to provide annual reports on the implementation of the export
plans, which would be reviewed by the PBs and also by the Bank during its
supervision missions.
60.      These criteria would allow financing of a sufficient variety of
projects which support export expansion. Besides projects producing final
products for export, projects producing intermediate products that enter into
production of final export products (i.e. indirect exports) would also be
financed. Many intermediate inputs are in short supply and bave to be
imported. By financing them, the proposed project would help increase the
value added of exports particularly in non-traditional product areas. The
minimum level of export orientation (30%) has been selected because it would
have a significant impact on the firm's operations (in inducing the firm to
improve production efficiency and product quality; upgrade marketing skills;
improve packaging facilities; etc.) and is appropriate in view of Egvpt's
present low level of export capability. rne minimum time periods of three and
five years are realistic given the pull of the highly profitable domestic
market and the time required for policy reforms to correct the bias against
exports, the still undeveloped nature of the infrastructure supporting exports
(in terms of marketing, quality-control, technical assistance available,
etc.), the time required in Egypt for investments to reach efficient levels of
production, and finally, the fact that Egypt is just now initiating an export
effort.
61.      In addition, subprojects must have a total investment cost not
exceeding US$20 million. In order to ensure that a large number of
prospective export projects benefit from the proposed loan, individual
subloans would not exceed US$5 million; it is expected that this would
generate 50-65 subloans. At least 50% of the loan proceeds would be for
projects in the private sector in line with the Government's renewed emphasis
on the sector. To build upon the experience of the PBs in financing similar
subloans for manufacturing, there would be a free limit of US$1.25 million;
however, the first three subprojects submitted by each PB would be reviewed by
the Bank. The free limit would not be available for subprojects proposed bv
companies in which a PB has more than a 25% equity holding (PBs PA, Sections
1.01(a), 2.02(a)). It is estimated that about 20-25 subprojects accounting
for about US$80 million would be above the free limit.
Project Costs and Financing
62.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$316 million
equivalent of which the foreign exchange component would be US$159 million
equivalent (50%). The cost of the technical assistance and training programs
is estimated at US$3.6 million in foreign exchange. This would cover: (i) 227
staff montbs of consultants; (ii) staff training abroad; and (iii) office
equipment. Consultants would be engaged in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Loan



- 19 -
Agreement, Section 3.03; EDB PA, Section 2.03). An Exporter Assistance Fund
of USg3 million with matching amounts from exporters would finance a variety
of technical and promotional services. Price contingencies have been
calculated in accordance with the Bank's proiections of future inflation in
Egypt (14% in 1984, 13% in 1985, 12% in 1986 and 10% thereafter) and supplying
countries (3.5% in 1984, 8% in 1985 and 9% thereafter). Physical
contingencies are estimated at 5% of base costs. The proposed Bank loan would
cover 79% of the foreign exchange cost of the project.
Lending and Onlending Arrangements
63.      The proposed loan of US$125 million equivalent would be made to the
Government for 20 years, including five years of grace. The Government would
onlend US$118 million through EDB to the PBs, which would lend it to
subborrowers for terms up to 15 years including a grace period of up to three
years. The PBs would repay the Government through EDB according to an
amortization schedule corresponding to the aggregate of amortization schedules
of all the subloans made. Execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the
Government and EDB, and between EDB and at least two of the PBs, satisfactory
to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Sections
3.02(b)(i), 6.01(a)(b); EDB PA, Sections 2.0l(b)(i); PBs PA, Section
2.05(a)). The remaining amount of US46.7 million retained by the Government
would be passed on as a grant (i) to EEPC, whicb would use it to meet the
foreign currencv cost of its technical assistance program (US$3.2 million)
including action program activities and to finance the Fund (US$3 million);
and (ii) to EDB to meet the foreign currency costs of the technical assistance
program, including training for the PBs (USt0.5 million).
64.      The Bank loan would be made at the standard variable rate to the
Government, which would relend US$118 million to EDB at a rate set initially
at 1.25 percentage points over the Bank rate. This spread would compensate
the Government for taking the risk of the variable interest rate and of the
exchange rate between the US dollar and the currencies owed the Bank; the
balance would help compensate the Government for the cost of the Exporter
Assistance Fund. EDB would pass on the funds to the PBs after adding 0.25
percentage points to meet the cost of its apex function. Finally, the PBs
would onlend the funds to subborrowers at a minimum interest rate of 14%,
providing them with a spread of about 2.5 percentage points, which is
considered adequate. If the PBs increase the onlending rates in the future to
enable them to increase their spread to more than 3.5 percentage points, the
additional income would be transferred to the Government for meeting a part of
the local costs of the technical assistance program for EEPC (Loan Agreiuent,
Sections 3.02(b)(ii); EDB PA, Section 2.01(b)(i); PBs PA, Section 2.04(a),
(d)).
65.      Subloans would be made in US dollar equivalents and would carry a
minimum fixed interest rate for the life of the loan. The five percentage
point spread (2.5% for the PBs, 1.25% for the Government and .25% of EDB
(para. 64)) and two percentage points in additional charges would bring the
effective onlending rate to about 16% per annum (para. 39). The interest rate
structure would be reviewed annually to take account of inflation and the cost
of similar funds in Egypt, and the new rates applied to t;e uncommitted
portion of the loan. As under previous Bank loans, subborrowers would assume
the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and the Egyptian pound



- 20 -
(calculated at the highest rate of exchange declared by the CBE at the time of
repayment); the Government, the exchanRe risk between the US dollar and
currencies owed to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)(iv), (vii); EDB
PA, Sections 2.01(b)(iii), (iv); PBs PA, Section 2.05(b)). Since the
Government has begun to make adjustments in its foreign exchange rate regime
it has been agreed that the Borrower, the Bank and the Participating Banks
will, before subloan commitments, review the effective cost of capital (taking
into consideration the nominal interest rate, applicable exchange rite and
other necessary premia) with a view to setting it at an appropriate level.
Procurement and Disbursement
66.      Bid packages exceeding USS2 million would be procured according to
the Bank's ICB procedures. Below this limit, PBs would follow their normal
international shopping procedures with comparison of offers from at least
three suppliers, which have been reviewed by the Bank and are satisfactory.
In order to expedite disbursements, a revolving fund for the Export Assistance
Fund set initially at US$250,000 would be established (Loan Agreement,
Sections 3.05(a), (b)). Disbursement would he made against standard
documentation except for contracts below USM20,000 equivalent, to be claimed
under Statements of Expenditure. The Bank loan would be disbursed over a
six-year period against the following percentages: 100% of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment and 60Z of the local purchase cost of
imported equipment purchased "off the shelf" from local dealers; and 1002 for
consultants. The projected disbursement profile assumes a slightlv slower
build-up compared with the profile of existing DFC loans in the EMENA Region,
because promoting and appraising export-oriented projects is a new activitv in
Eevpt. The final date for submiszion of subloans would be December 31, 1987
and the closing date June 30, 1990.
Project Reporting, Accounts and Audit
67.      The PBs and EDB woulc submit to the Bank audited statements of
project accounts, including the special account, and annual financial
statements audited by a firm acceptable to the Bank within nine months of the
end of the financial vear, and in addition, would submit progress reports
relating to project activities. Similarly, reports and project accounts for
the technical assistance components would be prepared under the auspices of
the relevant agencies and submitted to the Bank.
Project Justification and Risks
68.      The proposed project would support the Government's efforts to
promote the development of manufactured exports, which is central to Egvpt's
ability to maintain a high GDP growth rate and a healthv balance of payments
position. The project aims at developing efficient export-oriented firms in
industries with comparative advantage. Besides financing production
facilities, the technical assistance provided through the project would help
both existing and potential exporters to improve cost competitiveness,
marketing skills, product quality and design, etc. and thus enhanc. their
export competitiveness. Egyptian industry would also improve operating
efficiencv and resource allocation, through exposure to foreign markets and
competition. It is estimated that the project would finance nearly USg300
million of investments through subprojects which would export goods worth
USS135 million a year at full operation. It would create roughly 10,000 new
jobs at an investment cost per job created of about USW3O,000 (in 1982
prices), i.e., at a cost slightly below the marginal investment cost per job
for the Egvptian industrial sector as a whole.  The project hbs already made
an impact by helping the Government to build a consensus on needed poliev



- 21 -
reform, particularly with regard to the exchange rate and institutional
framework. During project execution, further improvement in trade policies,
export-impnrt procedures and export finance would be realized. Finally, the
project would help strengthen two institutions vital to the development of the
export sector, EEPC and EDB.
69.      As an initial project in the complex area of export development,
there are a number of risks. Recognizing that export expansion takes time and
that the benefit of the project will be only slowly felt, an important risk is
the degree to which policy reforms will be enacted in the medium term, which
will influence the project outcome. The Government has already undertaken
significant actions and endorses the policy and institutional reforms proposed
in the project. The project aims at building up two new institutions in the
export sector, a risky undertaking. The technical assistance packages to EEPC
and EDB would reduce these risks. Finally, while subprojects financed through
the loan are expected to export 30% of production in a three- to five-year
period, there is always the chance that some firms would not meet this
target. However, the project provides for careful appraisal to ensure that
subprojects are designed for export markets and for systematic supervision so
that the required export development plans are implemented. The PBs and EEPC
would also monitor the performance of these firms, and EEPC would provide
technical assistance aq needed. Thus the risks are reasonable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egvpt and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and the Export Development
Bank (EDB) and participating banks (PBs), and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
71.      Features of the project which are of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness of the Bank
loan are: (a) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the
Government and EDB, and between EDB and at least two of the PBs (Loan
Agreement, Sections 6.01(a) and (b)); and (b) the establishment by EDB of an
accounting and monitoring unit to onlend the proceeds of the proposed loan and
the staffing of EDB's apex unit with an adequate number of staff satisfactory
to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
72.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 1, 1984



- 22 -                                                 ANEX I
Page 1 of 6
?AS.E IA
G,P2. *353 331.0o      - SoCa 1101Sk AUX           i
~?W   *5*5 351 01'              3UUE   WWWS CWEG1W AR1ER5A-S) I.
iw         tu_         c r    Ic amw ca 4333*1
fwS_.  o     e s r ncr. ao                   ft     -
lgoe       1        b v c sr  ff ATU    SD mmr T-         -AM AN       r  A
am c0    I- gOo
1001.4     1001.&      10M.4
2Zi3       25.4        23.6
cw  m  C        C1) 100.0                         300       65.t0340.                                 20332
CKfLO03C C OAL2. 29CIM.UI         z23.0       312_0      395.0             310.4                   1407.6
1W,.A?70ff-cD..W-f: C? 6)  253.0    33C3.0    4320.0
CUM PA W  CZ? 01 T0C1L)            37.9        42.3       44.3             47.4                      65.9
1CIrA.    M  13 20WA    (O3312)                         63._
SZ20M  10101*1==  (L)                                  114.7
11*3 S-.l=    NW. REM=                                 211                  _
PMA sq. q.                       25.8        33.0       43.2              36.0                      1.4
tB. U. 0l.t- LAW          t       Q2       1362.6     1601Z             4'9.0           n32
tCMAM  AC S          :WC     CZ)
0-14 US                         42.2        41.5        39.5             43.9                     40_1
13-64 US                         54.7        34.9       5.9 59 2.6                      S.5_
653    A30W                       3.1         3.2        3.5               3.3                      4.1
2021.                             2.3         2.5        2.3               2.9                      2.3
cm"                               f40        3.6   2,     .               4.6                      3.7
=C    51TK 5S (153                 43.5        38.5       35L7       *       2.5                     31.5
-m    !!a!! 343 CPU T1             19.0       iS-         11t7              12.0                     8.1
*-i9 RE tDC 311                     3.0         2.?        2.3               3.0                      2.0
A,T0.1. AtW .N=)                ._          20z0       357.0
a  mS 0C 1 3*3a20 WORM                        9.0       17.0
PM   am 911211
-_ Or MM  M. P  C*Fr=
C1949-71-100)                      96.         99.0       33.0             97.5                     113.0l
m caiim s_o or
cLfl        CZ or 01Q23 r0'S    109.0       107.0      117.0             102.3                    111_1
P3OM13  CClala PM DAY)           78_0        74.0       76_0              72.0                    67_-
0F W= A30I3. At PMS             19.0        17.0       29.0kc            17.8                     34.1
0AL5; CACZS 1-4) WAT3 3MU          34.0          _.       1_.4              1"2                       5.1
Lrn EC. AT DIM  (12*35)            44.1        51.3        56.9             57.2                     64.6
zlA1_C IIQ-.   1 cm  -1103)       12._0         __       110.0k           104.2                     62.6
ACC55 O 56,! VA=E (10)
I021-                                          _. J.    36.01d            59._                     64_8
mums                             3.5           __        U     07         84.9                     77
C                  .                           ..       50.07o            37.5                     44.1
AC    TO 3XZ    DISOA
:0*.                               __          ._         __                ..5 t
c0m"                               __          __         __               ._                      69.5
111RAL                                         .          .                 .                      29.5
FM90A77M  PER P3531CrAw          2530.0      1900.0      970.0,f         3533.0                    1774.0
P0. 1  15DC 15330                1930.01    1620.01    150co071          1820.7                    1012.2
OI.     NsT1J, -a_
7021.                           440.0       460.0       OI0              663.3                   477.0
510.01e    360.0       Geo.d7a          545.0                      7.1
.                              zigo2190.07;   2170.0  24t4.dT-o         2462.0                   1921.6
AIIOtSSUL  M  3,r2*._ MM                                  30.81d           2.4                      27.2
*SZ5I S                                                       N 
05*_                              4.5          ..          071 . _
AVIS&= NO0. Or InSUS03S/
TOME.              -                           ..        tJd_-
C33*                              1.6          _  
sTo 0L=. co011 OLL2110
Zam*.                              __          __       45.7d             442
C03*                             37.3          __       7.97-e            77.6
3*..                                                    is. d7            16.1



ANNEX I
-23-                                               Page 2 of 6
TA5LZ 3M
am",  M       _ or    - S0M. ml19 
mm                       OS?       ur x51aU3 lb
'b             A723. £   4 mC CanT   LAT. AuMR a Ca
t.Oj       1 *r97_ -r
P3DtAf:  1 ZOL                   64.0       12.        76.0             39.4                    10.0
WLKZ                  M0.O        33.0       39.0            1046                     tO43
FULE                 SZ30        3460       43.0             72.4                    10.
SECON*A: :L 1g                     0        34.0       32.0 4e17                                   .0
waLz                  23.0        4.0        6440             32.3                     33.4
romZ                   9.0        2.0         9o              31S2                     42.2
VOCATEIIOL CZ OF SEM )A             MO.       19.0       21.4             10.3                     34.0
C-TEAOXR R*2or
P3LWW                            390        34.0       23.0             32.9                     30L7
slOAr                            24.0       23.0       24.0             23-3                      4.7
AMCLT LZTIRACT WAL Ct:)            2"-O , 4                               43.3                      MS.
t*Sr CARS1 AW lOP 2_           8                .0 W13. M0                                         43.6
RDIO RflUSflW"  POP                MtI1      133.2      19               13a.1                    223.2
5V1 R2CEZW:35fluin_aO pop          1.9        14.0       33.2             63.4                    20.3
QESU    C-Dr- Ce14
TWMS1  CD2CAT
FEM T3OAM :  O1 LAIOS              __        22.5       *0-4             3t.0                     64.1
CVIA AIEM. AX         MC A          2.6        Z.1        1.1/             1.7                      2.9
-0  t.*Mo  FORCE CThOIW         - 745330     241.0    :z_0,                 _                        _
FEIALE(PE3MI)                     7.3        7.2        6.0             10.7                     24.
ANra2Lrr (FnCRAT)                5ao        ! 4.0      50.0             42.3                    31.3
xrSTh  (rLUCS)                  1220        19.0       30.0             27.8                     23.9
P.AMMICPATTOR RA79 (PIRCEW!'
am                               2911       2J_0       25_3             23.4                    3123
J=4                              533.2      515        47.0             43.4                     49.8
FOIE.E                           4.2         4.1        4.2              3.4                     I4
E IC  EpeNcT Raw                   1.6         1.4       1iS               is                       1_
c  mar r
twcrr  Br
NICE= SC 5Or IU DSIKS            17.5/1     17.4_ j   =z1zok
hIGrs  20P OF R0S.4             "-47i       42-8flU    49*27k
LahEsm 20: er HOF 3O S            6L467      7. o, Rd   3_I_
LowJ= 4OZ oF U SE0LS             1 7-7r     13.tmL? 14..7E
EMSTED A3SCNiTE POVEI 1NCOP.
L81 CrSS tr- CMPITA)
CR                                 __         ..       131.0            276_1                   2899.
3tiU I'                                       -.       94.0            177.1                    134.5
ES-LIATVD RELaA-M 10131:! INCG!E
LE1E CLS P1rs CAPI-TA)
,RWo                              ..0.0                                400.0                    319.3
W-qAL.    ..                      .. .is0                              28333                    372.1
ESRjt-A  POP. 3V0 A1s LE I:%!
LC:                                _           _       21.0             22.0
q'UIL                              _-         ._       :5_0             30_86_
N M AVAILANLE
'GOT AMICAMLE
Is   eorup aerases for each Indlcator are popul-tloa-tlght.d *rItINtIc mass. Coverme of ctrLrt in   t l
Indicators seeds on ldliabtlity of dota and t- not cmIfofr.
ht Culess otherdse noted. -Data for 1940- refer to any year betm   1959 aid 1941; -ea for V970_ bewn 299 ag
1971; and data for     Req Macent EttimteW betwmn 1979 and 1961.
/c  1977: Id 19,6: /a 1962: If Registered, not all practiclS In tmw couetry; !A 1978; fb 1975; /t hral  _aodttww;
L. l%63; k Rationat, 19 75_73
Ib  293



-24 -                                                                      AM= I
Page 3 of 6
affates- or21- c       ==
a-.   as_a   -   -  a-  a.   -                    .__ti._    _"_ at  __ a-.ea-e. at r         . te  a-        a   a   ate at,_t -         a         z._,
a.t.                 . at is-               _ -    -     -    -_   5_ - dii a-   i-t__ aU_,_te-o
a-cat   - a         - -.        _     _i ea,~ at        t  acted.   _r d_fif_ -                                                        _ , _         _
a      -CU                                                           '_ _at _- 1.  l __ t W-  a - _    - -              _    _    _            - e _ at
M"ma-    C.   ta  .w4   a-        aa,                     -         -a. te - n.    i"  at I-t". MaW- ft -      III    q a -.       a.-
.trk.c.esi. is -  est        wat isa  -    ~        - .            a--eq.  _t            t        Lte       _  _- at  a- _   __ss" .1 _-   -..
_- _t _sa 'et .a  ata.   .- at _- _                                  -  nt.a-ee  at -  .  etetla-5, ef _-  _ I. _    st.. _                   - - 
.u- s---tr _-                                                      - _    s      _   _q _ -     s     e_         - -    ._    -    -i
_e   t                                                                                              -           _              or  _    C
_  z a.be. GM   _             _     _    _ : _ . t*-Ws -.-                                              . sf-
- R      t"a -                                                                   seq-     (.a--atet.                          -ita        f    -a
ism-  awu ILI  -N                                                                          ULL -    0-tt a-  iee.. m a"t-  P- MUG. 9- -I...  Cnt
-             - a       St_ ..t. -_e_  --   -_   --
L-it l-   a                                                                                                                     L.~._ _ _ _
is-. _s. at  nat a-                                    _                                _o l._  -           -        _     s im t-t            ?   c i _     d   _ _   _ _f _
|_ _ s __ w ~~gol. -9 LI                 _                      s                      - 
-   -  -               a- .            - _ _s-
--  C..~~~~. - ____    -     ~~~~at it  att   11a tis-t                    -      e ,         -   y      tst dw,.5al
-       Wttay       edWtI-&a a    asSe                                      &-Lt    - t      .-    eai3s"         ite.  i.ta-a 
0- -         t- fi                                                             .tw_   -   a:          . __al                  , a-_
a-aea  _r _!?        _                                     _tiat _-s. -  _a . ap   _                                              sZi _   _ _ _
_~~~~~~~~CL-   _ P.LLI                    r_                                     rU --L    _ _        -   _.L      ... "_s__  _8_ 
:_ _ ___ _ _ _: __________ __ _ ss  t,. _iC  n.       t                              sl     a-aela-l.                     --        -       -
-                                                                                    tea   .ue. ceten -      ti   a- *_   ..*  a. -  _            
..a- atias a *_   -         -X    -, an ___ _ _              .                                                                           'LI _-
.C tisi tat  ted Mtta ssII                                                         , k  r         s ot.       tert WRtS) - i.t.t   at   t VI-    e
-        ants. a. wa. _  _ _terus -    ns, ft-t'
_~~~~~-s.  _.,as  t.  _   -_ tie                                            a  an. *_s    _   _e n-    __.ar   _                 ism
_ _Iol E-". _t_LLI -.s            a-
_ tal  i_ _SeS. _il   -  .- _a                                                      -      tsit r     _     dals.-asla                    at _
ease is. a-  t I eata-    .t-   a                     a-asS   -La    -   atntt,                .tce   dasi-P-
-            _5 aciils  at _ati, .a_ .__  ent   t__at                     _       t _rt  a-   _t f_t  _- u .  _ _t. _
Ltd - isas atet.,  -L..a-           is -D        C Na----ssw-
-   _  _ss  -   - -     _                                                                  -t  -   -.  - __ea t  _ i as
_ o  _   _ _   :   _   | _   t   ..............................................................  _t__ _f .....................   .  L _ _ ...
aim     at rsin   _t _  a.  _  gii-Se  .ee                                        rrte  tt          .t  at. at _ta. - _m   e, _t  a_at
-    -a a        eata-teat         ttt.                   & ietatat        .    --        sa-tte                                       
,_s_ el  _t.a      ala  - at   t5 -  a   sJt.te  t                                 Ictr_ _.eaiW    aiat.lw   e  C_a _ *L _t
La-  Iftat tela     -             .     -L tLa                                      -Vd                        t                      -
Im                     . _        _o__ _42_ C    ~I            ~         '..
retet_'..  -  _  c      n  __t._.                           _,iin etit as-al .tl - . C_                                                     -LS  __
a-s-a -  as. -   a.etla   s-I -i.t.tat. e  l.a.-                                                                      at -   tee       
_~~5                                                                                a-n  t........a........e..... a   -  _.   ;:.  s_-   _s.tee____es.
=-   - _ is-. Lilt. -           , is- a                                            1s.1      f     i   at_               aua sa-.  _    _    __
1wat -  is-         t acaeql a-  -M-   1-t   attnta to"  IdI                          o.U        sia-.LSOL.P    ILLILF.o
fa. .5U *                                                                tat  .e-tl     (        .    _.,p _       n    t _t
q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                           -b                                 srO _  L.Y   x7        r_
_Sieaasa _.aa _    _ r-t ta.) a-c-_  _i)                                            ta     .a at  tais.  -   tr                  
-    eeat .1  .-a-                  it- .-  da-                n     tiat.
ge.dsta. *_:, a  _   a-                                   _l-i   Wt5i - 11e  _,t _a-   _                                          __.   ttt
tetets    a- i_s_.  nte)t.-    -_ aV-i we   t-.7t __               td                l.a, *_1                   a- ea.  a- c s   _
_tie.    -  __ ieeAsle.)             -     t _.a   _.a.                  _t tie-a r.t faa-I - _d                         _-   __d  r .t ata
a   _e  LYl-i  _ilei en iledi.                         _                       .a- _,eZ           e e...i           13 _a-      _
_ et. rs<  'a  eiwsa   - ad-i _z  isea ~t at    a   z .7-W-- -
a- getet  a  .1... ..e.. at   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                           Ut Iate-                      ...
tat. _. _. en t_                                                              let.                        at.. s-Ia   _-I-, a              t a _  _  _W_____ 
e-                             5it.          r -_ ' _r  -__    -t _at   a-cia._ __
Bi_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a _                                            t  nL_ t
~~t  a,..a-ifte       a.. last.... I~~~~~..P    &*ftitts      itt      .       at    .   -
.,                  i,6 f     r  z       _q I..e -O a                   r        _            - _      a d_     . _  _a
9eip-a.i.                        'laat. -    - _i   a   .t _t..                      ac       a   t..e _. Da  emat_ a-atel_-a
.10 t -  t-a t                                                                                                 s-t  _   as _   __s.-e
a                                                                                 .c a-ti- _- ta-a  aeisa  - ti eaea   _                  .  
ae          -   tsaa. -  ttli   a            -  ,er_   t attet                     e.. .re   attic a, ta-a       t.fl  .i.    __Oa  ti tae_
-  .1  titrt              _t1      s         ttt_ _ttea.  Cs_.i-                      ea s.. a  i_       l _   ts tet..i  s e_ ti at. a, is .tt
esr_... mic     -._-       r                                                     esl.........       .....  _   .... .__-.    _-i.._   .   _-
t-_ vren-                                                                             - __..w  _  ef  *e. --.-___   -  '-..|-l   __   te,q.  *...n.  ttt-   _-   'S arite
a- _- ta  .g,esi.  f_e. isi...iet - .L_t _t .gc                            :          i-te    ttt  lt*i   _s .nes                         :5 .. eai_
._  _   tt_ e__  _1   __ ca    s. _ re _.st   __id.  _.e                        is4,  c     .dt   i _ it a _ *e i.   _a     _   _a      _   _
tee? a en  _a re    I._ _e-t.  - ae. tal   I.                                        sts   i                _     _1 te____
.. te_a   _             t_      __ to_ __se   .r_  t r . S|en  at It
-                                                                               -.a- raM
-         eaesa  .7 is.: ra  a .. .......l... :_~  .r ce.ts  -                 -      __.t.          ..e.e    .n il   isa-........ t .. ste.. f ce.mn  _ | __ ^| w
_,p    _   i. a-ie          ea a-i   tete , in          . te                        5.e..   r .et  e_   fi.ItasX r. ci, iaeta  a_
ann. tet er   tean.  ist_ .e..fla....................... _ai  _ta  t_. et_.        seri;_r. l_e.: - it  iss
..nttsi _ a-    r_ Ieee   _t.e         : te..         _                             _. ttcteatj f  _  _-i  it.  tr.- I          a _ _   *esi t, fee.
_-.e enita  _Sr tO                  _   .t.iatc. ad  t   i.<..t                     _                - _e.fee  r_ Ii......e.....ie...    i_ rat 
.et,l.t,, _    _~n taSSeti.. intr'tt itt..fc. to,  tdltt*.                  _         ISh.. _55,, l.fte WILI             r e    ee . ;Cut aws _t   ~
t a  a_ at.rt   if _ .st, _.e  a_ __,.    r s  rir a'-c                               a!- r. trtee   - tat liCe, is .tet.srti. .ai
-   .ttt  te-el t   ei a~ts 1st.                                                      a .rtt _t.  ai          s.e .- _wre_esea i_ ir.  ra  fete.r  :i.
re  st. .aei .frest. :a  p.r             .e... .....tet.. at Seete          _    ~      a  _~t is...
_,t _,               at _  _. e_ _ s._t  _- tre., r.e .e     -  ! a.. - f r                                                            ee          
_ _-r  t  req .ii  _it    atatt._   *-           t5  tt_ *.ut.                     ett-_ itt *    w.  _a.e   - ue_.t.   _;.       _ * sls tan f   _. 
_tne  _,, ,r et  l.? It  rn...-.  ... _ s-i  __ _ett                                 tt4 et    _t i*.t  at.    te.~      u   t_ _tlsta       .ett
t.t  Itt. if Sc  is _- s-:    .t...    *r.   ............. _                          ,.   i,. -  *i. a..    _ n :- . _et -  t:in. __ tstarv_etui _f._r
tae.r a           I   et          ......sC.*   tt.   -. _teit _? e. g.s:s. *a  .- ti es_ rr_.
.1r  i:   *_.i  a__ - e..    t*- '.'  .l        -. -._    . tE.                     e.r .nea et Irs e .tts   _ _..
_it _ar. tie. i.e,e  ti_ __ ._ i-        .. ..t .                                 te.eic  s .... iei................. -1 .-ait   _:. ir at *1 a       ar!
et_ .t   _t.  - ' _   i'_ _-at _.-_' ee*  'C  _  *
_-                                                                                :   tf1_s-- 
ttt tn ,_,   ._. i__t. -a  i_ .  - _..   at_   -_ t -  .r                         C~T         ._et  s.c,_cc  _e. tss_   rt_c  _ isetta  -s recsi *
_tel  Ia  ml. _     s tefa_._  U tt  ..         l_ ,  n r   sIe                    tes   rtst    seec. .,,_e. -_,at _i  a-i, t,,,  W_ _,
trtt       ss _UIsce_ *- l tts ate.  *- .  t_I --   tnt  ..                        i       -
%fl t c. et            *r     .F    .       psr                                          .....-. . ta-   _ _     _. . _     sect.....   . eeg. seiteemate _-   w   t . _
feRtt.i.ate ra _te   -_ t tst.r ..cst  .t  a                                       dit. .a_e    cr _.1 a- tse.t_X =~  at seeis   _us   a - *
_iri  _t te  tte-_    . _et   tie   .1   tiit_1 isaettn,n-  .e..i   nIe   e. a.  Se     tt
le_  -E {L tees  _e   _t_         ._ie     tt    rs.s_et _.ot_ _,-                    .tteat i,ds.  iet rte ttet  _.a  se.i.t   s _  _
__ _f _.I rred           . _t _eet ect_ reit  ac     -s t _el.r_ ._leet.
aterert tin i_         treat  rta. atte-   irte                                  titeaR  isset rqt r_        ta tc. tlfl :_   lee - else ecel_
m_t :.ie  a_  _:te   a_ iir_ _ete. r..tec   _t _                                   -c ?tn. tr at te.?   _ea  _.i is< i a  lz.a .at
_l.  ra  tat _ _ctt -  _ne D           ese  - intt   Cet _tt                       S.e. =n       aetf   ls   a  a1.5      t. 
-ce- a 'tas ae-at ,-ctt r __steiti   . teat_ ._t s_
a-r eI ..Z       0_,t _ta  ai 4   __st  i  tateD
_a.    _      _. a ass  _r_te   _r_is   tat. dts-
alici-  t elnes   tdis.laaa-  i._                      ta. "1                                                       -est   t       -t adNls
_-      a   at_ _se     _t _-ea                  eq *_. _n _ eti                                               aS   ald.           t_jtel  i        a-
Itsi  _i   _rf   _ ra _..                                                                                                      _t   *



-25 -
CF:- EC! ZmDtS
ops.lationz 63.3 million Cm" 198)                                     -                                                                           I
C_ wr cae_i: es   50 of I CI9Q d1Lsr)                                                                                                       Pass of 6
_mc (Cill jw
MS sce  rvc                                     ASNOAL   cG3oTa   R A7S E                :t
prices)                  ACTUAL                                            mST.    PROJECTED
1981/82       £975   1976   1977   1970   1979    196U    1996118-  1982183   198318    1986S   1958354   198/7
_xzwL  SCUM
C.00. Usvmcs Peadact bi          25296.0          9_3    L3    11_1    8U0       9.7      6U7        7.6      5_9       6.0       6_6       6.4      6b0
ri4 4787.0                                     6.1    1_6   -3.0       5_6    4.2       3.5       3.0       2.5       2.;       2_6      2.7       2.8
IsC.. El                      4729* 0         l0.7    5.5    8.2   11.0        7.9      7._       7.3      8_5        U.4      7.8       7.7       7.5
fsrlsom                       3622.0         40.6   51_7    54.5   -_0    10.3         I6.?      6_1       6.0       4.3        U.0      5-0       6.5
semacs a/                     10725.0          9.t   11.5   16.9    6.e   t3.2    10.2            9.9       .1        6.9      7._:      6.6       6-..
ca.mtia.                         2338.0         -0_3    I:_S     5.6    4.4    9.3    10.7           7.6       5.5       6.0      6.2       6.0       5.5
Cae"    7ee.a                     7561.0         4r.5  -11.7    25.5   l0.5    10.6        2.9      10.6       1.8      _O         5.5      6_1       6.6
_or  Of amS                       7962.0         27.2   30.3      5.9     3L     0.6       9.5      10.1       4.1       5.2       7.2       7.0      6.4
orts of CS                      11665.0          17.1   -53     2.4    4.3   15_3        9.-       9.0      -1.7       3.9       5.1       4.9       65
Crown N_ iaC  S.i.               *109.0        176.0   50.1    59.1   23_4   -3.6    -4.6          06.1       -         -        -         -
Defacor                      D45.3   50.9   56.0    2.2                           61      9t1.     100_0       -    _     _
Muchuv Racel                                       .-15   2.21    2.07    1.8S5   1.43     1.35      1_23     -                   -         -         -
,OTe of GOP se %hk  Prie. CZ)                           LeraM.2  se Cacstc_t Prie
C.-        wre)                               1965 Pr-c"  1975 Pr7c       19611{82  i.
1960  1970   1975  1979  194va    198/1182   I966/7            1960-1970 q
- -       tic Product
_!ielrv                    27.9  2S_3   25.   19.9    19.2         18.9      16.2            4.7          5.1       2.0        2.5
:cw tr& ptrol._ cl   23_7  26.1   26_.  34.1            36.1      33.0      49.0            3.0          2.6       113-        7_4
Zcr.icer di               42.9  60.5  42.7  412    40.3           42.4       42.3            & 3         4_4        11_8       6.7
_ -                      Jnt.  87.3  90.6   87.7  35.8    85.9   34.3       1.s2            4-4         8.0        7.7        6..-
- Iawc.c                 23.3  13.9  Y334   32.8    29.5         29_9      30.8            5.8          4.2        7.9        3.4
mgc Of  ws_              19.5  1£42   20.2  29.7    33-4         31.5      34_9            4.9           a8       10.2        4.9
P Mf C -  s              20.1   13   41.3  48.3    48.8          4.        47.0            1.1         13.5        3.9        3.5
-  aiaml Sein3           12.9   7.7   13.2   21.       19.2      16.2      19.9            7.2         17.2       27.0         -
£960    1910   1975    1979   1960816   1981182    19621183
ceet 3.s.e.                   15.5    21.3   29.2   29.0       4.6       402        39.1
C.et, nspeiitr               21.5    20    40.5   35.8         39.2      40.1       40.4
Cos.-ew  S_Im  C.) or
Deficic C-)                 -3.0   -0.7   -11.3   -6.8         3.4       0.1      -1.3
lomeesat E     _D"4ituri    11.3   11.1    17.2   20.0        21.7      22_8       20.0
Poawigs Vis_eit.              -       -        5.9     .9       6.4       5.9        e_-
1960-70  1970-75  1975-60 7783-8T53
w UDICAUS-
Q G CroWb mte (CZ)              *_5       5.0     I1.5      7.5
an por co_ic- aeinth
r c. (Z)                       I.9      2.7      57      4.7
rac. (S) 61                            16.9    13_2      &6
1CQ                             -        -         3.6     4.1
#bwe;-al  sma not.               -        -        0.46    0.19
l_gort  lascicity               0.9       1.7      0.9     0.9
Dosed- Mar14  Asak Atla wso t "todolag  (tctbe yr srmm exchange rlate).
CP for 1961/82 at eisec  prices is  end at svh_c prices-  Secrorl shro  api rate" pfgrscb ceae GDP at factor cast.
Mea.fac.rive a" Nisiss. Qlcctriciew  a  Coostractias.
O-acribstios and Servie Sectors.
Wited swag. of all C.rre   acc.-Mt iaws ijladi-a tressct ia..  udsr the fe srkc rte.
nlacteicity amly.
-e



rw z$o
BOW -  -SEERYAL 2m
P    catioo  43_3 million (mid 19St)
CW ver capiza:  0s65W1981 dollara)
A n qCLluJ                           I  Grob Rat.2) A me Cor    198112 pIces
Mt$ at current:
prices)                          A C T O A L                               t.        PBO J    C T    O
19B1/82    1975    197i6   197       1978    1979   8sola   UsiIZ          1U a3ja1  a955   -SJ
ERNAL TRADE
merchandise EFvort-           5779       27_2    19.5       3.0      7.7      8.S     4.7    12.1    -1I3        4.4      7.5       7_3
-  Pri_ay  '                   570      -I5_4    -87       25.9   -29.9      5.1    -9S9       8_B    -3_3       7.4     4.S       3.6
- mamfactures k1               540       24_6   -14.5   -27_4       1-2   -30.1   -10_6   -12_6    -82           4.9      6.4      6_9
- Pervolen El                 4669       72_1    63_2    111        16_1    21_1      9.5    16_2    -0_1        4_C     .1I       7.8
Merchandise Eaorts           10380       15.3    -5S0      -t1_0     B_5    12.      10.6      5.4    -2.4       4.1      6_4      5.1
- Food                        2680       27.3    17.0   -IAI        25.8    -1IZ     19.6    ILI        0.7      2-4      7.6      3.7
- Petroleom                    505      -34.2   -23.3   -53.3        3_0   -12.0    -0.2      68.3      &4       6_1      B_5      5.6
- nachirv and Ecuipown        1175       62.4    24.8    21.3    -0.7    289         10.1   -116      -9.1      7.1      5.4      4.4
- Och-r-                      4020       20.1   -2642      10.7      7.5    11.9      6.3    10.0       9.9      2_7    641        5.1
Przc..
Export Pric_ Irdex                       56.1    5S_3    57.0       57.7    S2_9   109.0   100.0    95.9   101.9   111.9    121.3
Isport Price ndex                        63.5    57.6    74.9    81.0    93.6   106.4   100.0    9L8    105.6   I13.1    121.7
r,: of Trade odem,                       88.3    80.3    76.1    712    8.L6   102.4   100.0    97.0    96_5    98.9    100.1
Copicia of Merchandise Trade CZ)   Awrage Aual Imcrease CZ)
(at currvat prices)           at constant 19B/S2 prices
1975    1979   801 SI 811/2   S5/11        1975/79  PTS21/u
Exports                                                                         9.8       4.7
Pri arb                        28.1    13.7       9.6     9.9   12.9         4.1       3.0
Manofactur-./                  46.7    154      10.5    9.3    9.8         -153      4_0
P.tro1cu%Y                     25.2    70.9    79.9    a0.8   77.2           Z6.8      4.9
Imports                                                                         1.9       3.9
Fo-d                           23.6    22_8    2641    253.    25.0           2.9      3.6
P*trolem                        6.9      3.1      3.Z    4.9    5.1        -Z4.5       7.2
Machbioer                      23.7    37.4    36_6    30.6   30.6           17.2     Z7
Others                         45.8    36.7    34.1    38.7   39.3           -3.1      3.3
Share of Trade with        Share of Trade with                 Sbare of Trade with
Indacrial Countries CZ)    D    elopi  Co       CZtrie    )  Ci   Sorpl Oil eortrs CZ)
19o5,  1970  M97  1951   TM6   1970 19" 1981                  L6        7       975   1981
DIRECrION OF TRADE
ExPorts                  270   17.0  14.0  52_0   1.0  22.0  10.0  36.0                2.0      1.0       4.0   3.0
Pri nrw               29.0  I'.0   180   -       17.0  22.0  11.0    -               -       1.0       3.0    -
4amfact.tesa          19.0  12.0    3.0    -    23.0  23.0   9.0    -                4.0      3.0       5.0    -
Imorts                   55.0  42.0  65.0  75.0   18.0  25.0  14.0  13.0                 -        -        4.0   1.0
a/ Based on Wlorld Bank Atlas weehodolojM (thre vear avwrge .cnhang  rate)_
1Rf  Noc includinx oil ad oil prodects.
cI Icnloes oil copanie.' exporta.
MIDA (0236J.evijed)
9.29.83



a~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                t
ag 6 ef 6
emi- mai w muss  ma  ant -
riia     e_ a  C  prm
in.  zm   me   zm   Wa    to J         i c Irain I                              t
1974    ton5   lg         DJr"   If     *w         ltUA    1oi        TAMB      1MUS&    lJ45    trasis    1"48s7
asian1C wor
REDD of G-od. -d vn-fctor
5..cv                                  nst1   250    3319    3am    AM9   5601             3     7n          3070       "a        1010        Rse        13360
- of aaia* .ecbm"i    f.-_b.             iet      U75    i1t      231     255f  3#7    5617        5779       s5s         600o       90            20       9600
lyon - .f Good an    onFttr
S5riews                               -3959   S161   -518Z   -M329   -6612  -W7   -1160   -1163           -1100       -12530     -14240      -teo       -170
- of  hicb -erckdisv c.i-f.             -341    -4603   -559   -Sl   -7M RM7  -10336  -103                  -l9l2     -ItS       -12630      -151       -156
Net Pac-e  tnc                             70  17 2        at3     a72    109    1376    1190       lIt         960        730         630          0        430
Net Priv te Trasasfera                     62      90       37      63       54     39      63       S           30         40          so         so         so
cartant Acc   Nalsac*                   -IS%S  -2426   -1363   -1656   -1361  -ll1S  -23L3   -3501            -2230      -3010      -3"60       -3730      -ann
Pnoat. Diract IX__casm                     67     25       4s      477      3     Isis    lam      1325       16w        1650       I800        1940   2U 0
ls  ad Crat. (NeC)                     69     269     647      730    1141   WI t     2I 4      965        gm         1470       1310        2000       1395
- efficia I    . and gr-ant               -n      noa    490       a03    102      749    I020      9s          860        99        1150        1600       1475
- private                                  90 5s           157     -73     113    262      226       as         140       4a0         660         60o        420
Ohber 1ix rFnati g                        337      809    -wa4   it.'       m0s   -305     -a       576         724       -            -            0o        its
overall aala.ce Il                       10s53    11.3     676    -915    -412   -30l      ISO      G15        -46         110       -iso        -200       -zoo
internet.eI    anR  t   /                 516     673      sa2    nM    L50L   lOoj   1697         r313        2331       -          -           -           -
- of e.ia Cpse                            l0t     I02    1t2       10       lS    IC-_    103   m s             5-    -                    -           -
- . - "..t Ipoth1.                       1.7      .a      1       LI       3.0    :7      2.0     2t7          2.9       -          -           - _
uraz caLm  su oar
Gra Dis          b215    35=22    ma    3286    2753   2291    2562                                3082        3102       3470        335i       4282       4960
Officit  rans                         1261      986     705     382      291    72      279      395        400         482         556        597        662
Ceeaial isa.                           120    16        63    1835    1600    9%       17       1034         96         9           use        an         *9
- oac                                   55      99      421     591      799    33    1103       900         798        727        696         753        850
-aOPEC                                   3    1162      In      137      95     43       69       23          16          6          I           0          0
- IDA                                   12      49      42       42        i    55       43       as        136         I"         107          62        3i
- Oth-                                  so      54       34    1035     663     65       56       is         1i          27                     60         67
S-Co -e.sialI                          604    1092      365    1049    W66   L223    1007       1653       1491        203        2453        273        30
- official   por credit-               379     639      zI       24             so       83  lf             292         339        362         60         634
- lam                                   -        34      36      37      57    11s      166      III         120        253        330         37         429
-ohe -no  iatanel                       -        6      -       256      1s       5       4       1          27         2I          31          36         so
- pDinr.                               425     433      595     732     7      1050     774     1339       1052        1443       1750        1955       2 2
c Fi r.an                                                                                                       250          0           a         2          315
r-OaI De
Deb u orc..taig ad di.-b-re              230    4323    5770    a2    9920   12411   13653    14956           1993       17312       13677      20064      21560
- official                            1990    3910    *720    6316    8507   9556   10928    11932         12223      13056      13764       14523      13352
- pric.                                6'0     913    1050    127n    1-13   1357    2725       3024       3536        4069       4724        5331       3750
- *T ftinc_i g                                                                                               139        169        19          210        63
ndti-barnd Debt                          1602    242a    3014    4315    4390   4629    5951       5013        8599       799         726        6541       5724
Debt Service
local Service F     ot                    542      61      795    104D    1190   1246    2011      2371        250        2W2         3239       3601       6230
- intSt                                156      190     274     361     415 n26         759      912        1100       1226       1320        1319       tea
- ovmoc a. e-  orts-                  22_0    23.2:   0.1    22.6    21.5   17.3    21.3        26.3        25.1       27_1       27.0        26.6       27.
Ave.ge tIvrct RaCt en  l  Lo.             6-3      4.7     5.1     5.1      4.6    6.4     6.5      7.3        10.0       10.0        10.1       *0.2        10.1
- officiazl
- prime
Average nat.riC  of Ne  ia-ao  (narta     17.2    13.5    23.3   1U.7    27.9   24.5    19.5        16.9        14.4        14.7       14.3      14.2        14.2
- official
- privart
I/  tml 1m      mspial halav of pwefits fi_sntina _nean1tcatad it.".
21 Pli4  (-  iodicata. aee_lcatio   of foreign aecs.
l Porvim ._nr- of Central tank.
/  Mercha.dia  only
If Ineladig apvil bla              of pawcta grant.
6/ Saorcs of mooda -d _     rvics naot iledisg fouiXa oil co_inpa.i  anon.c
MI"06 (02361)
'.29.3



- 28 -
1Fm I of 2
ME ffG C1m aEP (DS UT lMT
A. SIX  ( CF MR  aM ADL MA  1              I
(A. ci 1b~ 31. 1966-
___ltin muifim IS dotlar.
t    dit         -          zer Bpbipe                                      Elms c(odlnimu
abs            FT                                                      -m&      M      IkIid
21 Tomms =A Credxts; full disbursed 21                                 4i.5.0   257.8       -
N1oW.            75        s_   -       mez c1    oilization            50.0      -         5.3
La I139          76        A_L        Aleamduia EIt                     45.0      -        13.5
In 1276-T 31    76          AE         Fruit a:d  ti1e D.                51.0     -         2.Z8
cr 637           76         AE         upper   l Dile I                   -     40.0       2L1
La 15           76           e         Uppr Ep   oimWe II                10.0     -         93
to 2369          77         AtA        A       leria Ibte Swlv          S32      -        13.6
cr 719           77                                     Irile Delta Drire 1  -   27.0       LO
to 1639          77         ME         Nfile I-ta Draimm I               27.0     -        14.2
To 140T 31       77         AiIe Deta =izuie II                          12.0     -         6.3
Cr 771.          78         AE         Tel_caticm          II             -      53.0      12.6
Cr 83D           78         -E         Isria z:1  ealm t                  -      32o        9.1
Cr 831           78         _E         U I  Dee1                         -      14.0       7.6
Or 850           79         -E         pz1latiso II                       -     25.0       10.5
Cr 863           79         ARE        Edtcatio 1I                        -      40.       12.
to 5144          79         AtE        I. Miler ltPmie Emiz..rize
A     T Tmkc1 Asise            ILO      -         3.2
Cr 909           79         AE         2i                                 -      32Z5      21.6
La 1732         79          aE        Culf of SiAMGas                   75.0      -         0.1
Cr 935           79         AtE        ic.b   El Marin          Rar       -      37.0       5.5
a 1733           79         EEA        S9obB  l  om 11     1  Por 41 102.0        -        8L9
Cr 91E          80          AmindStries                                   -     45.0        8.8
to 18EY.         80         DM         DEuIBP     D1huII Bo  Iv          500      -         27
To lW2           80                    1 E                              30.0      -        22.8
Cc 102.          8o         APE        Caimo Gu Disibution                -      50O        -
ta 1669         so          AE           lp ad per                      500       -        26.6
Ea 1886         80          EEA         R  III                           7.0      -         7.0
Cr1052          so          EEA        rr m                               -    12MO        365
Cr1069           81         ME         Education MY                       -     40.1       22.2
ED 1928         81          ElsC Wes e            t DeI t EP tI         25.0      -         0.2
Cr18             8!         AtE          lIa Dt 5 -                              8D0.      47.4
Cr11 11          81         AE         Fish Fig                         -        14.0       9.9
La 20M2          81         HDSCB    bdimolb bibitit                     60       -        60.1
Cr 1156          81         AE         Beiz  lhe Sml y                    -      56.6      45.0
or 1162          8I         AL         1edimical Amisce 5r                -      6.9        5.9
In 2(M          82          ARE       TeIeomxiijr   m                   64.0      -        66.0
to 2174         82          DM B         D    cat lFuhal -k V          120O      -        6S.1
to 2103         82          E=C        Abu Qir Gas DIe    -              90.0     -        58.2
to 2176         82          AE        Gemcer nbimo Uhm Dlm1             59.0      -        57.7
Ial 2183         83         AIE        El DiwiIs Ebrt                   13ZO      -       130.0
to 2263         83          AIE        Aga _imistries II                 81.2     -        79.9
to 266          83         ARE        Vcstiol d injiw                   38.0     -        37.7
to 2270         83          AWE       Irrizatio Rapior Stutiso Mub.    41.5       -        41.4
tIa 2280         83         ARE        El Dildeia Ricixmizw Bar        165.3     -       166.1
In 2330         83          AIE        Rod )bite                        24.0      -        24.0
La 2352         86          APE        Vacer SbIpl and Se.ar twa.        4.0      -         4.0
'btm1s 9.M.2   970.9    1,267.8
Of FA.id ha be   pmid                                                   135.4    2-7
Total w   " ajtstduiz                                                 1,789.8   95L2
Amt sold                                     7.5
Of .ili  1mu basniepnid                      7-5
Totael a  held b Bask ad  UA,                                         1,7898   96L2
U1  12* sta   of Ote Pnj.t  listed in Part A is described in a spe  eCt an all <11U fimm;d pasj ot
i" eiszdmi, %*idb is qpdatd twe ewrly ad circulatad to die atutiw Diiecws ao Aril 30 ad          3L
21 Ekluh  3 crihts for ewainerica idiiw wee suhpqscIv i.fim  .* ad a I|1 aminion pw  d
for dbe Gmacer Csiro UrH leve1lg t Pr ject.
3/ Thud T iud, Lmo.
M M inl&d is EEC Speial Actis  Credit 20 of IS35.0 uillim 
51 Cmdit dI_     I  in, ins   Aun nt is i S quilmaent at tim of tfor th  U  _ . ad 16$
eeivlut at Ibih 31. 1984 for te umdimhgsd  wat.
6/ at  t effac i.
April 26, 1966
(QZ3U I & 2, pitdc 15)



- 29 -
ANN; II
Page 2 of 2
B. SATatNyT OF IFC INVESI'EIS
(As of March 31, 1984)
Fisc:al
Year   Obligor                Tvpe of Busitiess             Ioan    Ezuitv   Total
76, 82 Arab Ceranic (Omarv    Ceramic Industrv               6.63    1.11      7.74
78  LNile Clothirg CGmvanv   R#padv-bade Ganment Indusmtr  0.43    0.16      0.59
78   Dplta Sugar Caunmv      Agricultural Production,     20.00    3.51    23.51
Tnainlv sugar
79, 83 Lnailia misr Foultrv   Foori and Food Processing    12.07    2.35    14.42
Amvanv
80, 81  lsmailia Fich         Food and Food Processirg       3.74    1.05      4.79
Fainijr  Cyvainv
80   Suez Cement Ccmanv     Buildim Materials             30.00      -      30.00
84   El-Dikheila            Iron and Steel                95.20    7.20   102.40
81   twcor Hotel            Crcodile Tourist Proje't       4.41    0.72      5.13
Total gmss com2itnents                                     172.48   16.10   188.58
Less: Carcel lations, teminations, repavments
and sales                                        84.34     -       84.34
Total comiit7ents now held by IFC                           88.14   16.10   104.24
Total Undisbursed                                          100.42   10.02   110.44
(0231J-2)



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EXPORT INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Date Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Kev Events
(a)   Time taken hv agencies to prepare        3 months (September 1983 to
the project:                            January 1984)
(b)   Agencies which prepared the             Egvptian Export Promotion Center
project:                                (EEPC), Export Development Bank
(EDB) and participating banks
(BMs): Bank Misr, Development
Industrial Bank, and National Bank
for Development
(c)   Date of government request to
the Bank:                               September 1983
(d)   Date of departure of appraisal
'nission:                               Januarv 1984
(e)   Date of completion of negotiations:   June 1984
(f)   Planned 'late of effectiveness:         November 1984
Section II - SDecial Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.    Special conditions of effectiveness:
(i) EDB to set up an apex unit and an accounting and monitoring unit to
onlend Bank proceeds (para. 54).
2.   Special conditions of disbursement:
(i)  EEPC to enzage consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, for technical
assistance program to EEPC (para. 49).
(ii)  EEPC to develop detailed guidelines for Exporter Assistance Fund
(para. 51).
3. Other special conditions:



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
- 31 -
(i)  Government and Bank to agree on three-vear action program for further
polic-.v reforms to promote exports (para. 47).
(-i)  Government to onlend the line of credit to EDB at the Bank rate plus
1.25%.; EDB to onlend it to the PBs at an additional .252; subloans
would carry a minirnum fixed interest rate of 14%; the interest rate
structure wrould be reviewed to reflect changes in the cost of similar
alternative funds, and the new rates applied to the uncommitted
portion of the loan (paras. 64 and 65).
(iii)  PBs would onlend funds to export-oriented firms under agreed criteria
(para. 59).
(iv)  Other onlending features include: a free limit of UStI.25 million; a
maximum total project cost amount of USt2O rnillion; a maximum subloan
amount of USt5 million; at least half of the line of credit allocated
to the private sector; Bank review of the first three subloans from
each PB; minimum economic rates of return and all bid packages above
US52 million would be procured under ICB; (paras. 59, 61 and 66).



