      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      MA-Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (P086877)



                                                                                                                 Report Number : ICRR0020063


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                             Project Name
 P086877                                                MA-Rural Water Supply and Sanitation

 Country                                                Practice Area(Lead)
 Morocco                                                Water



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                        Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-73510                                           31-Dec-2012                                                             112,470,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
  15-Dec-2005                                          30-Nov-2014

                                                             IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                    Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                            60,000,000.00                                                           0.00

  Revised Commitment                                             51,366,583.13                                                           0.00

  Actual                                                         57,277,395.46                                                           0.00




 Sector(s)
 Water supply(90%):Sanitation(10%)

 Theme(s)
 Rural services and infrastructure(33%):Pollution management and environmental health(17%):Other human development(17%):Participation
 and civic engagement(17%):Gender(16%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                        ICR Review Coordinator                Group
 Keith Robert A. Oblitas             Ridley Nelson                      Christopher David Nelson              IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives

    To support the Government program in the project area to increase sustainable access to potable water supply in rural areas, while
    promoting improved wastewater management and hygiene practices.

    Source: Loan Agreement, January 9, 2006
    (The Project Appraisal Document and the Project Portal data system have substantially similar wording.)
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          MA-Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (P086877)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components



          1 Water Production and ConveyanceEstimated costs at Appraisal (base costs without contingencies) - $94.3 million; Actual costs –
          $78.9 million.


     Implementing a program of sub-projects (about 12 to 15 sub-projects were estimated at appraisal) to deliver water to villages through the
     construction of lateral mains from existing or planned regional trunk lines, storage tanks, public standpipes, and in limited cases, water
     production facilities such as treatment stations, intake structures and pumping stations. Detailed eligibility criteria for choice of sub-projects
     were defined in the Loan Agreement including the financial contributions from local government (15 percent) and beneficiaries (5 percent).

         2. Water Distribution and Wastewater Management
            Estimated costs at Appraisal (base costs without contingencies) - $13.6 million; Actual costs – $ 0.0 million.
     Comprising: (i) design, construction and supervision of village distribution systems providing house connections; and (ii) mitigation
     measures required to handle the resultant increased wastewater flows. Communities (villagers and local governments) would be given the
     choice to opt for direct household connections instead of standpipes based on their ability to pay for and operate the higher level of service
     for direct household connections.

          3. Institutional Strengthening and Project Implementation Support
             Estimated costs at Appraisal (base costs without contingencies) - $4.6 million; Actual costs – $5.3 million.

     Reinforcement of the National Potable Water Authority’s (ONEP) capacity to implement the project and provide support to the local
     organizations responsible for operation and maintenance. It included (i) implementation of an inclusive participatory approach responsive
     to community demands for service levels;(ii) training to local organizations responsible for O&M; (iii) hygiene promotion related to water
     supply and wastewater; and (iv) the costs of technical assistance for project coordination and Social Mobilization Teams. (The PAD also
     referred to support in parallel to the project, of three public-private partnerships.)



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project costs and Financing: Total project costs estimated at appraisal were $112.5 million, and at completion actual project costs were
     $84.2 million, 75 percent of appraisal estimates. IBRD provided a Loan of $60 million of which $57.3 million (95 percent) had been
     disbursed by project completion. Other financing was by the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco ($5.8 million planned and $13.7
     million actual), and local communities ($22.7 million planned and $13.2 million actual. The primary reason for the reduction in total project
     costs was because $24 million of parallel funded activities was separated from the project as a result of the delinking of the parts of the
     program financed by another agency – refer below. (NB. Project and component costs are from the ICR.)

     Parallel Financing: Until a project restructuring in 2014, the project was parallel financed with a similar program financed by the French
     Development Agency, Agence Francaise de Developpement, which had allocated $24 million to the project. Financing was through
     separate arrangements - the Bank and the French agency following their own procurement rules, and with each financier responsible for
     a particular group of provinces. In 2014, the French financed part of the project was “de-linked” from the project because progress with
     the French financed program had been very slow – even at project completion none of the French financed sub-projects was
     operational.

     Project Duration: The project was appraised in September 2005 and Approved on December 15, 2005. Effectiveness was on April 7,
     2006. The Mid-Term Review was in June, 2010. The project had been originally scheduled to close on December, 31, 2012, some seven
     years after Board Approval, but the closing date was extended by 23 months to November 30, 2014, making for a total project period of
     just under nine years.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       MA-Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (P086877)




    Restructurings: There were three restructurings: (i) on September 9, 2011 to extend the closing date by 23 months, to reallocate loan
    proceeds and to record name changes of some provinces; (ii) on May 9, 2013 to change the Borrower’s name; and (iii) on November 25,
    2014 to delink the IBRD project from the activities financed by the French Development Agency, reallocate Loan proceeds, revise the
    Results Framework, and amend a legal covenant.

    Institutional Changes: At project commencement, the borrower and implementing agency was the Office National de L’Eau Potable
    (ONEP), an autonomous, profit-making public corporation under the oversight of the Ministry of Land Use Planning, Water and
    Environment. In 2012, ONEP was merged with the national electricity authority. ONEP then became the water branch of Government’s
    combined water and electricity agency. ONEP’s responsibility for the project remained unchanged, and this ICR Review refers throughout
    to ONEP rather than to the larger body.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   Rural water supply and sanitation feature prominently in both the Bank’s and Government’s strategies for Morocco. Addressing rural poverty
   was a priority in both the 1997 and 2001 CASs, and the importance of readily available potable water and sanitation, especially for the poor,
   has been carried through in the strategies since then. The 2005 CAS set out the Bank’s support to “improved water management and access
   to rural water supply and sanitation.” The project’s objectives are also encompassed in the most recent CAS (FY14-17) which calls for
   strengthening institutions for improved service delivery to all citizens; and expanding access to basic services. Likewise for the Kingdom of
   Morocco, various papers and programs manifest a long-standing concern with provision of potable water, particularly for poor rural dwellers. A
   National campaign to provide the infrastructure for improved water supply was launched in 1995, and in 2004 an existing water agency – the
   Office National de l’Eau Potable (ONEP) was made responsible for an intensified investment program to increase access to potable water.

   The need for rural water supply and sanitation undoubtedly justify Morocco’s and the Bank’s emphasis on rural water. In 1995, only 14 percent
   of the rural population had access to potable water, and fetching water would typically require considerable time, or costs if bought through
   vendors. Access to sanitation facilities was also low. Such higher costs, whether through water fetching time or purchase costs, were borne by
   those who could afford it the least. Average rural incomes are about half those of urban dwellers. Thus, as an important element in improving
   rural welfare, the Relevance of the Project’s Objective to “increase sustainable access to potable water supply in rural areas, while promoting
   improved waste-water management and hygiene practices.” was Substantial




   Rating
   Substantial


b. Relevance of Design

   A weak Results Framework, primarily due to limited connectivity between outputs and the project objectives, a Risks Assessment
   underestimating the difficulties of land acquisition, and the limited institutional capacity of ONEP to take on largely new initiatives such as the
   household connections program, contributed to overoptimistic physical targets and to delayed commencement of activities. The issues were: (i)
   land acquisition and compensation actions were not sufficiently detailed to adequately guide implementation, and were late to be finalized and
   required changes as experience was gained, delaying the construction program, whereas land acquisition planning and implementation should
   have been as soon as possible in project preparation and implementation; (ii) contracting the technical assistance team, a key part of the
   project necessary to provide the institutional capacity to carry it out, was not stressed in the PAD, contributing to late commencement (the
   contract was signed in February 2008, more than two years after the project was approved) whereas it should have been a prominent element
   in establishing the critical path for project preparation and implementation; (iii) the size of the households connections program (the core of the
   project’s second component) was far too optimistic; and (iv) the responsibilities and funding for rural sanitation were not clear. Nevertheless,
   technical aspects of the project and some of the institutional arrangements were prepared to sufficient quality to enable a start to the project,
   albeit uneven, and a generally good quality of design for the works program. This tempers the problematic design issues above, hence the
   project’s overall Relevance of Design is rated Modest.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               MA-Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (P086877)




       Rating
       Modest




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Increasing sustainable access to potable water supply in rural areas.


    Rationale
    The number of rural people in the project area who were provided with access to improved water sources reached 192,000, 59 percent of
    the target of 324,000 people. And 64 percent of the water supply and, (under Objective 2 - refer below) wastewater facilities constructed
    under the project were functioning at project completion, (i.e., operating satisfactorily and with an operator).
    Introduction of house connections made minimal progress - the project was to pilot house connections in 265 villages, but none were
    implemented. Nevertheless, the project set the stage for future piloting. A guidebook for house connections was established, and detailed
    designs were made for 11 villages.
    As concerns financing contributions, local governments were mostly in compliance – 80 percent of them paid the requested share of
    investment costs (the target was 100 percent). Contributions from the communities, however, were poor with only 19 percent of household
    contributions collected. The ICR comments that such low contributions “reflected limited achievement of the principles of participation and
    demand-responsiveness.”
    Summary: With provision of water supply at 59 percent of the targeted number of persons, and no household connections actually
    established, the Efficacy of the Objective to increase sustainable access to potable water supply in rural areas was Modest.




    Rating
    Modest

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Promoting improved wastewater management and hygiene practices.

    Rationale
    Output achievements of the sub-components supporting this objective were minimal. No pilot wastewater plants were constructed, and
    improved hygiene practices, which were intended to be promoted as part of the household connections program, had no foothold given that
    there was no village where household connections were implemented. There is no reliable data to assess achievement against the
    monitorable indicator related to hygiene, which was that at least 20 percent of project beneficiaries had adopted improved hygiene
    practices.
    From project start-up, waste water management and hygiene practices appear to have received little attention - from the Bank and project
    implementers alike. For the Bank, the appraisal report did not detail the responsibilities and funding for rural sanitation, and ONEP was
    reluctant to engage in sanitation, given the already demanding implementation of the standpipes water supply program. In mid-2012,
    Government’s position was formalized in a halt of the sanitation program, but this did not generate a restructuring of the project’s objective,
    components and monitorable indicators. There were some activities that may have made a marginal difference to the project’s impact on
    hygiene, such as awareness outreach when a standpipe was complete, of the need for cleanliness around facilities and handwashing). But
    the main focus of the project’s management and field staff was “on more pressing issues such as” (for the water supply with standpipe
    program) “the selection of caretakers and negotiations with local governments; and hygiene promotion and behavior change did not get the
    attention and time needed to achieve substantial outcomes.” (ICR section 3.1).
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         MA-Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (P086877)



 Summary: Overall, the achievement in promoting improved wastewater management and hygiene practices was very limited, as also
 concluded in the ICR – “Achievements of the second part of the Project's Development Objectives is negligible with no physical output on
 sanitation and limited evidence on hygiene practices.” (ICR section 3.4). The Efficacy of the objective to Promote improved wastewater
 management and hygiene practices was Negligible.




 Rating
 Negligible



5. Efficiency

 At completion, the project’s economic rate of return was estimated at 12 percent (which compares with the ERR estimated at appraisal of 13
 percent). Benefits included in the ERR were based on time saved in fetching water, and health benefits from increased consumption of water
 and improved hygiene. A 20 percent increase in costs or a 20 percent decline in benefits would each reduce the ERR to 9 percent.

 As concerns other gauges of efficiency, the cost-effectiveness in terms of costs per capita of the water supply investments was $295, which
 is not far above the targeted cost-effectiveness of $247. Project costs at completion were 75 percent of costs estimated at appraisal, but this
 reduction is commensurate with the reduced physical investment program. Delays in resettlement, procurement and recruitment of
 consultants leading to a 23 months extension of the project period, were the project’s main implementation inefficiencies. Taking all of the
 above points into account, particularly the time taken at the project’s inception, and also recognizing that the ERR is not substantial, the
 project’s Efficiency is assessed Modest.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                            100.00
 Appraisal                                                               13.00
                                                                                                            Not Applicable

                                                                                                            100.00
 ICR Estimate                                                            12.00
                                                                                                            Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The project’s objectives to provide potable water, improved sanitation and improved hygiene practices for the rural poor had substantial
relevance as such services were particularly important to the welfare of Morocco’s impoverished rural population, for whom water carrying could
occupy a major part of a day’s activities and potential earnings. But the project’s design had only modest relevance as actions needing early
implementation, such as land acquisition and compensation, and establishing the technical assistance team, were not put at the forefront. The
Results Framework and Monitorable Indicators did not provide sufficient guidance on project priorities and implementation milestones. Efficacy
was modest in the case of the objective to supply potable water, as achievements were only two-thirds of targets, and the house connections
program did not materialize. The other objective – to promote better wastewater management and hygiene practices - made minimal progress on
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         MA-Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (P086877)



all fronts and its efficacy was negligible. Finally, while the project achieved an economic rate of return of 12 percent, the delays with land
acquisition and compensation, procurement, and recruitment of the technical assistance team reduced the efficiency of project implementation,
adding two years to the project completion date, and leading to a modest efficiency overall. The Project’s Outcome was Unsatisfactory




a.     Outcome Rating
       Unsatisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

For the project’s main physical achievement – the water supply schemes with standpipes – ONEP has gained implementation experience, and
existing service agreements between ONEP and the local governments provide clearly defined guidance and obligations for future operations,
fees and service levels. For several schemes (outside the project construction program but supported with technical assistance from the project),
ONEP has set up Public-Private Partnerships, replicating an existing and successful partnership. Meanwhile, good conditions for ONEP’s
operations have been established with the national Government under a Framework Program (2014-2017). Amongst other understandings,
ONEP is allowed to recover debts from local governments, get refunds of value added tax from Government, and set tariff levels. These
developments augur well for future prospects of sustainable water supply, although the low beneficiary contributions to investment costs
(typically less than 30 percent) suggest that coverage of O&M costs may emerge as an issue. The wastewater management and household
connections programs have made little progress, and their sustainability cannot be assessed. Not yet tested over time is the sustainability of the
communities operating the recently completed standpipes. With these uncertainties, the project’s Risk to Development Outcome is rated
Substantial.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project was sound in engineering aspects – thus setting the technical base at the heart of a water engineering project. Several aspects of
     preparation were less satisfactory, however. First, there was a significant underestimation of the importance of land acquisition and
     compensation, and the need for tackling these issues before or very early in project implementation. Second, project implementation relied on
     strong technical assistance from consultants right from the beginning, yet consultants were not recruited until after the second year of the
     project. (The un-readiness of the project's land acquisition and consultancy needs, and the limited detailing for implementation of both of
     them, contributed significantly to the substantial delays that the project experienced.) Third, the institutional structure for implementing
     household connections (a key project goal beyond community standpipes) and for investment in wastewater management, was not clearly
     spelled out. Fourth, the Results Framework and M&E were loosely structured, with limited capabilities for monitoring project outcomes. Given
     these significant gaps, especially as regards land acquisition and compensation, and recruitment of consultants, yet recognizing the strong
     engineering aspects of preparation, Quality at Entry is assessed Moderately Unsatisfactory.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     Supervision missions were regular, including timely Implementation Status Reports, and the Mid-Term-Review in 2010 provided a
     documentation of issues. The Bank was also actively engaged in sector dialogue on sustainable management models, and the enabling
     environment to develop household connections. (It is also noteworthy that, by the end of the project, no water schemes had been established
     under the investment program supported by the Bank’s partner development agency..) Although below targets, the Bank project had completed
     investments on 1141 standpipes.
     Nevertheless, there were critical shortfalls. Land acquisition and compensation issues were seriously neglected, as illustrated by the lack of
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      MA-Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (P086877)



  any mention of compensation issues in ISRs until 2009, nearly four years after Board Approval. From Mid-Term-Review, supervision missions
  systematically reviewed compensation issues, but this was not sufficient to resolve all of the issues before project closing. Another issue was
  that the Bank did not take sufficiently proactive measures to tackle implementation issues. The ICR, commenting on this, remarked that
  “Stronger proactivity measures were needed to make up design weaknesses and address implementation issues.” (ICR, Section 5.1).

  Another deficiency was in severely understated reporting of the project’s status. Project ratings throughout supervision indicate a notable
  disconnect between ratings and actual performance. In the 18 ISRs from project commencement in 2005 to project closure in 2014,
  Implementation Performance ratings were satisfactory for 12 ISRs and moderately satisfactory for five ISRs (the last ISR reduced the rating to
  moderately unsatisfactory). Performance of Supervision was Unsatisfactory.

  Summary: With a Moderately Unsatisfactory Quality at Entry, and an Unsatisfactory Supervision Performance, the overall Performance of the
  Bank was Unsatisfactory.



  Quality of Supervision Rating
  Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
  Government provided general back-up support to ONEP, but could have done better in two principal areas. First, ONEP was not given full
  flexibility on adjustments in tariff levels, which affected the organization’s ability to raise funds sufficient for operational requirements.
  Second, Government could have done more to facilitate coordination between ONEP and other public agencies affecting the project. Fast
  track procurement procedures for works could also have been approved. Government’s Performance was Moderately Unsatisfactory.



  Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
  ONEP performed well in taking the first steps to establish a national water supply program, and was committed to the project. However,
  physical achievements were well below targets. But ONEP performance was in part held back by the Government actions above – for
  instance, it would have had greater financial strength in management and staffing if Government had granted more flexibility in setting
  tariffs. But ONEP was fully responsible for most other shortfalls impeding project implementation. ONEP’s primary weakness, though, was
  in land acquisition and compensation, where it did not comply with national regulations or with the project’s safeguards framework. The
  Performance of the Implementing Agency was Moderately Unsatisfactory.

  Considering both the performance of Government and the Implementing Agency, the Borrower’s Performance was Moderately
  Unsatisfactory.



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating
  Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       MA-Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (P086877)




a. M&E Design
   As designed at appraisal, an M&E Unit within ONEP was to have overall responsibility for M&E. Field data would primarily be collected by
   extension staff (Social Mobilization Teams), and one of ONEP’s line units would coordinate data collation by the operational departments. Tools
   to collect operational data were to be developed after Effectiveness. Monitorable indicators chosen to measure project outputs and outcome
   ranged in quality, some being measurable and linked to the Results Framework, and others lacking clarity. The mechanisms by which the M&E
   system would inform management decisions were not clear.




b. M&E Implementation
   MIS type data on physical progress was routinely collected. Collection of broader information for more evaluative purposes greatly benefitted
   from three Beneficiary Surveys – in 2010 (the fourth year of the project) which helped inform the Mid-Term-Review; in 2012; and before
   project closure. These were, however, primarily qualitative rather than quantitative.




c. M&E Utilization
   Data, especially MIS data, was used to track project progress, but there were gaps in some key areas, for instance, there was no clear
   measure of sustainability. Also, as local capacity to process data was limited, ONEP had difficulty aggregating or disaggregating the data,
   reducing utility. For evaluative purposes, the Beneficiary Surveys proved more useful.The overall Quality of M&E was Modest.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as Category B and triggered two Safeguards: Environmental Management ((OP/BP 4.01), and Resettlement
   (OP/BP 4.12).

   Environmental Management: An Environmental Management Framework was issued in 2005, before project approval. ONEP did
   environmental screenings for each sub-project, and subsequently monitored contractors. No issues are reported in the ICR.

   Land Acquisition: A Resettlement Policy Framework was issued in 2005, but implementation proved difficult, and not in accordance with
   Moroccan Law and Bank guidelines. Also, it was only at Mid-Term-Review, in 2010, that focused attention was paid to progress and issues.
   With guidance from the Regional Safeguards Advisor, the Bank MTR team requested ONEP to inform all potentially affected landowners
   about the acquisition process, including timelines and procedures for assessing compensations, and to not authorize works until provisions
   for compensation were secured. However, progress was slow. By the end of the project, less than 10 percent of expected compensations
   had been paid.

   (It is noteworthy that, as with the ISR ratings for the general progress of the project (section 8), there was a disconnect between the actual
   safeguards performance and the ratings for safeguards in these reports. Until mid-2013, the penultimate year of the project, safeguards
   performance was rated satisfactory or moderately satisfactory in all ISR reports, despite the serious problems of the resettlement and
   compensation program.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             MA-Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (P086877)



   Procurement. ONEP handled procurement in accordance with Bank guidelines, and there were no major procurement issues. ONEP did well in
   managing over 40 contracts including several contract amendments to adjust to implementation constraints.

   Financial Management. Financial management was rated satisfactory until 2012 as there were no major problems with financial management,
   and auditing was satisfactory. In the last four ISRs, Financial Management performance was downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory as financial
   and auditing reports were late and lacked the detail required.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Unsatisfactory                     Unsatisfactory                     ---
                                                                                                                Sustained operations of standpipes
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                             Substantial
                                                                                                                not yet proven over time.
Bank Performance                          Unsatisfactory                     Unsatisfactory                     ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory          ---
Quality of ICR                                                               Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The following Lessons, in particular lessons 1, 2 and 4, are adaptations from the ICR text and Lessons section:

1. Prepare and implement land acquisition and compensation as early as possible, including adapting to traditional land ownership customs,
the Government policy context, and the implementation capacity of the institution(s) involved.
Most of the land acquisition and compensation program was implemented during or after construction of works (only 10 percent of compensation
had been paid by project closure). The late start was compounded by unforeseen implementation difficulties due to limited consideration of the
wider context for implementing land acquisition. Preparation took inadequate account of constraints from existing Government regulations, and
ONEP’s institutional capacity to implement the program. The land acquisition and compensation program thus became the main issue and
bottleneck to implementation of the overall project.

2. A project’s institutional responsibilities and institutional linkages, and the associated implementation processes, need to be clear and
sufficiently detailed at appraisal to guide implementation.
This was not the case for rural hygiene, sanitation, and the household water connections program, which contributed to their low achievements.

3. Major restructuring of an unsatisfactorily performing project has potential to achieve better results than continuation without change of the
original objectives and design.
By project closure only one of the project's two objectives had made progress, and components such as the wastewater management,
household connections and hygiene had made virtually no progress. It might have been better to redesign the project to focus on the stand-
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       MA-Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (P086877)



pipes program, with revamped approaches and implementation improvements in areas needed to make it more effective. Limited studies and
piloting of some of the original components could also have been included.

4. Project performance ratings need to provide a realistic assessment of progress and issues.
Project ratings throughout supervision indicate a marked disconnect between ratings and actual performance. In the 18 ISRs from project
commencement in 2005 to project closure in 2014, Implementation Performance and Development Objectives ratings were graded Satisfactory
for 12 ISRs and Moderately Satisfactory for five ISRs. Safeguards were also over-rated - until mid-2013, the penultimate year of the project,
safeguards performance was rated Satisfactory or Moderately Satisfactory despite the issues with land acquisition. Such overassessments
might result in reduced attention by managers to a project's problems, and may have contributed to the limited attention during implementation
to the project’s serious issues and to the need for a more fundamental restructuring of the project than was actually done. (The ICR, with its
candid review (refer below), offers a notable departure from the ratings of the past).




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is an informative, forthright, and well written report, with an issues-based discussion of the project’s performance. Section 2 – “Key
Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes” – is learning oriented. A detailed economic analysis annex is provided, and the Annex on
Outputs by Component provide helpful details about the project and its implementation, as well as informative charts and photographs. The
Annexes on the Beneficiary Survey and Stakeholder Workshop are probing and thoughtful in interpretive content. The ICR’s major departure
from the project’s unrealistic performance ratings during project implementation is a significant and appropriate reassessment by the ICR team
and associated management.
There are two areas in the ICR where improvement might have been possible. First, some of the Lessons could have had more reference
to the specific experience of the project. Second, there are several aspects where more detail and discussion would have been informative; in
particular, more explanation as to why the wastewater and household connections programs did not take off. But overall, the report is a strong
assessment, noteworthy for its candor in discussion of issues and performance. The Quality of the ICR is Substantial..




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
