                                                   OFFICIAL
The World Bank                                           1818 H Street Nw .         (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT    Wa hgon, D.C. 20133        Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                               Cable Address: INDEVAS



                                                                                         November 26, 2014
  Mr. Ali Fassi Fihri
  Director General
  Office National de l'Electricit6 et de l'Eau Potable
  Avenue Mohamed Belhassan El Ouazzani
  10220 Rabat
  Kingdom of Morocco


  Re:    Kingdom of Morocco:       Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
                                   (Loan No. 735 1-MOR)
                                   Amendment to the Loan Agreement



  Dear Mr. Fassi Fihri:

           We refer to the Loan Agreement, as amended at the date hereof, (the Loan Agreement), between the
  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Office National de l'Electricitd et
  de ' Eau Potable (the Borrower), for the above-mentioned Project, dated January 9, 2006. We also refer to
  your letters dated May 21, 2014 and July 31, 2014, requesting an amendment to the Loan Agreement. The
  capitalized terms used in this amendment letter and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed to
  them in the Loan Agreement.

           We are pleased to inform you that the Bank, after due consideration, has acceded to the above
  request. Accordingly, the Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

  1.      Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:

                  "Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take, in
          consultation with the Guarantor, all actions necessary to ensure that its Cumulative Debt to
          equity shall be lower than 4.5 by closing of each fiscal year.

          (b)     For purposes of this Section:

                  (i)      The term "debt" means: (A) any long term indebtedness of the Borrower
                           maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally
                           incurred; or (B) any short term indebtedness of the Borrower, namely all
                           accounts payable and other indebtedness maturing by its terms less than one year
                           after the date on which it is originally incurred.

                  (ii)    The term "Cumulative Debt" means the sum of: (A) any long term indebtedness
                          of the Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
                          it is originally incurred; and (B) any short term indebtedness of the Borrower,
                          namely all accounts payable and other indebtedness maturing by its terms less
                          than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.

                  (iii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or agreement or
                          other instrument providing for such debt or for the modification of its terms of
                          payment on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a
                                                         2

                        guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has
                        been entered into.

                (iv)    The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up capital,
                        retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover specific
                        liabilities.

                (v)     Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, in terms
                        of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such
                        valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
                        which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                        purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
                        rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank."


        All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement that have not been amended hereby shall
remain unchanged and in full force and effect.

         Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Borrower, by signing, dating
and returning to the Bank the enclosed copy of this amendment letter. This amendment letter shall become
effective as of the date of its countersignature upon receipt by the Bank of the countersigned copy of this
letter.



                                                Sincerely,



                                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                             RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT




                                            . Si on Gray
                                           Co try Direct r
                                         Maghreb Departnent
                                  Middle East and North Africa Region
                                         3

CONFIRMED AND AGREED:

OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DE L'EAU POTABLE



By:
      Authorized Represent   e

Name:
                                 f   V
Title:                  ,

Date:     ,
