Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reert No. P-2871-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
EGYPTIAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
WESTERN DESERT EXPLORATION PROJECT
November 17, 1980
This document bs4 a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perforrmnce of
their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
l Egyptian Pound (LE)    =    US$1.4
1 US Dollar               -    LE 0.69
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
Mcf         -    Thousand Cubic Feet
MMcf        -    Million Cubic Feet
tcf         -    Trillion Cubic Feet
ARE         -    Arab Republic of Egypt
EGPC        -    Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation
GPC         -    General Petroleum Company
Petrogas    -    Petroleum Gas Company
GUPCO       -    Gulf of Suez Petroleum Company
EDC         -    Egyptian Drilling Company
LPG         -    Liquified Petroleum Gas
CNG         -    Compressed Natural Gas
API         -    American Petroleum Institute



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Western Desert Exploration Project
Loan Summary
Borrower:            Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC)
Guarantor:           Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:              $25 million
Terms:               20 years including 4 1/2 years of grace at 9.25% per annum.
Relending Terms:    EGPC would onlend $23.5 million out of the proceeds of the
loan to the General Petroleum Company for 20 years includ-
ing 4 1/2 years of grace at 9.25% per annum.
Project              The project would assist Egypt's exploration efforts
Description:        in discovering oil and/or natural gas required to meet
rapidly increasing domestic demand. As part of the
Gulf of Suez project (Loan 1732 - EGT) the Bank financed
an exploration study which analyzed petroleum prospects
in a 2,000 square kilometer area in the Western Desert
adjoining the Abu Gharadig gas fields. Twenty-five
prospects, eight highly promising, were identified.
The proposed project comprises the following principal
elements:
(i) Seismic surveys: reprocessing trials in selected
areas, shooting about 170 km lines on structures
to be drilled and shooting a regional grid of
about 900 km lines;
(ii) Drilling: up to 9 exploration and appraisal
wells, the actual split to be determined as
drilling progresses and data is analyzed;
(iii) Testing and data processing;
(iv) Technical assistance; and
(v) In addition, the project will include a component
to evaluate the feasibility of converting gasoline
and subsequently diesel-powered automotive vehicles
to compressed natural gas (CNG), including a pilot
scale conversion project.
Benefits and         The proposed project could play a key role in developing
Risks:             petroleum (natural gas and possibly oil) resources for
Egypt. Based on present evidence, there are promising
prospects for finding commercial hydrocarbon deposits
(most likely gas) in the project area. Technical and
statistical analysis of available geological, geophysical,
and well data, predicts a potential recoverable gas reserve
of 3.7 trillion cubic feet (tcf). However, even a small
commercial discovery would prove worthwhile since the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
necessary infrastructure, including pipeline, already
exists. A gas discovery producing up to 120 Million
cubic feet per day (MMcfd) could be delivered to Cairo
with marginal expenditure. Oil, if discovered, and
condensates could also be transported to El Hamra on
the Mediterranean Sea, through an existing pipeline.
Although risk is inherent in any exploration drilling, the
proposed project is judged to have a good chance of
success. The use of compressed natural gas as a vehicle
fuel has been proven elsewhere to be technically feasible.
The purpose of the study and pilot project is to assess
investment costs and public acceptance under Egyptian
conditions. If successful, this would reduce demand for
gasoline and diesel fuel, releasing these high value
hydrocarbons for exports. The compressed natural gas
automotive study and pilot project holds promise for
upgrading the use of natural gas by substituting it for
gasoline and diesel.
Cost Estimate:                                           ---- (US$ Million) 
Local   Foreign   Total
Site preparation and water wells   0.7        2.2       2.9
Drilling rig                         2.3     10.0      12.3
Materials and equipment              0.1      5.7       5.8
Well services                        2.6      3.7       6.3
Seismic surveys                      0.5      3.0       3.5
Technical assistance                  -       1.2       1.2
Basic cost estimate                  6.2     25.8      32.0
Physical contingency                 0.6      3.4       4.0
Price contingency                    0.2      1.3       1.5
Total estimated exploration cost   7.0       30.5      37.5
Compressed natural gas pilot
project                            1.0      1.5       2.5
Total estimated project cost         8.0     32.0      40.0
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                          -      25.0      25.0
Government/EGPC/GPC               8.0      7.0      15.0
8.0     32.0      40.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                           -- (US$ Million) --
Bank FY                             81        82         83
Annual                              8.0      12.0        5.0
Cumulative                          8.0      20.0       25.0
Rate of Return:      Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:   No separate report.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
EGYPTIAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
FOR A WESTERN DESERT GAS EXPLORATION PROJECT
o   1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) with the guarantee
of the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of $25 million to help
finance part of the foreign exchange cost of the Western Desert Gas Explora-
tion Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 4-1/2 years
grace, with interest at 9.25 percent per annum. EGPC would onlend $23.5
million out of the proceeds of the loan to the General Petroleum Company
(GPC) on the same terms and conditions as those of the loan and make up to
$1.5 million available to the Petroleum Gas Company (Petrogas).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (see M79-839) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 28, 1979. A special economic mission subsequently visited Egypt
during March/April 1980. The findings of the mission are incorporated
in the following discussion. Country data sheets reflecting the recently
updated and revised national accounts are attached.
The "Open-Door" Strategy
3.       After more than a decade of inward-looking and centralist economic
policies, economic trends in Egypt have been influenced strongly since
the mid-1970's by the "open-door" strategy enunciated by President Sadat
in October 1973 and approved in a national referendum in May 1974. The
declared aim of this strategy has been to accelerate economic development
through the adoption of more outward-looking policies and greater emphasis
on the role of private investment. Specifically, the strategy envisages
(i) a gradual dismantling of government regulations and restrictions on
private economic activity; (ii) greater decentralization of decision-making
in state-owned enterprises; (iii) the attraction on foreign capital; and
(iv) expanded economic cooperation with other countries. Substantial inflows
of external assistance are considered essential to support the strategy.
1/   Part I is substantially unchanged from Part I of the recent President-s
Report for the Third Education Project, (P-2897-EGT) approved by the
Executive Directors on October 7, 1980.



-2-
4s.       To implement the "open-door strategy" the Government has taken a
number of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and the concurrent liberaliza-
tion of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel
market rate was introduced, Egypt's currency has been effectively devalued
by 44 percent from US$2.56 to US$1.43 per pound at present. Exchange
restrictions were eased, specific import allocations were replaced by
general import quotas, and more foreign exchange was made available to
both the public and private sector. A new investment law (1974, amended
in 1977) offered attractive incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements,
especially with the EEC, opened new markets for export products; at the
same time, bilateral trade with COMECON countries was much reduced. A debt
management unit, which was established in the Central Bank, became opera-
tive in mid-1978.
5.        In accordance with the objective of greater decentralization, the
autonomy of public enterprises has been somewhat strengthened, especially
by a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to individual
enterprises in (i) setting up organizational structures; (ii) introducing
material incentives; (iii) establishing productivity related wage scales;
(iv) adjusting the work force to production requirements; and (v) undertak-
ing some investments from their own resources. Interest rates have been
raised several times and now stand at 11 to 13 percent for lending (to the
non-government sector) and 6 to 9 percent for term deposits. Provincial
authority to undertake regional development programs has also been ex-
panded. Central bureaucratic control remains strong, however, over most
investment and pricing decisions. Effective decentralization can only be
achieved within the framework of a relative price system reflecting eco-
nomic costs of production. The slow pace of price reform constitutes a
major obstacle to greater decentralization.
Impact of the "Open-Door" Strategy
6.        The open-door strategy and subsequent policy actions, combined
with a favorable external environment and the growth of domestic petroleum
production, have yielded impressive results. Above all, they have led to
a rapid increase in Egypt's foreign exchange earnings which rose from $1.4
billion in 1973 to $6.7 billion in 1979. During this period, oil exports,
workers' remittances, the Suez Canal and tourism emerged as major new
sources of foreign exchange. This was accompanied by a major shift of
agricultural and industrial exports from COMECON countries to the hard
currency area. In addition, the Government managed to attract large
amounts of foreign assistance. Gross inflows of medium and long-term
capital averaged 3.3 billion per annum during 1975-79, compared with an
average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72. The bulk of these aid flows
came from Arab and western donors and were provided at highly concessional
terms.
7.        Increased foreign exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows have
resulted in a consolidation of Egypt's external debt and have strengthened
the country's creditworthiness. While short-term credits owed by the



- 3 -
Government to commercial banks peaked at $1.4 billion at the end of 1976,
they were reduced to $443 million at the end of 1978, largely with the help
of long-term loans granted by the Gulf Organization for the Development of
Egypt (GODE). During the same period substantial arrears in debt payments,
which had built up in previous years, were cleared. These changes have
solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatened Egypt's financial
position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms of new borrowings have also
eased the burden of the country's medium and long-term debt. Although
Egypt's total medium and long-term public debt increased sharply during
recent years--from $2.1 billion at the end of 1973 to an estimated $11.0
billion at the end of 1979--the debt service ratio declined from 33 percent
to about 20 percent during the same period. This reflects not only more
favorable credit terms--i.e., lower interest rates and longer maturities--
but also the rapid increase in foreign exchange earnings.
8.        The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and seryices and from external assistance has allowed much
higher levels of imports. This in turn paved the way for a rapid increase
of investment, larger domestic consumption, and a better utilization of
existing production capacities. Imports of goods and services (excluding
interest payments) rose from about $2.0 billion in 1973 to $7.9 billion in
1979; imports of capital goods increased at an even faster rate. Increased
availability of foreign exchange enabled greater imports of raw materials,
intermediate goods--including fertilizer and pesticides--and spare parts,
thus breaking crucial bottlenecks that had constrained local production.
Together with investments in new capacities and the vigorous expansion of
services such as trade, tourism and shipping, these developments sharply
accelerated the rate of economic growth.
9.        The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices
rose at an average rate of close to eight percent per annum during 1974-1979.
Much of the growth was concentrated in petroleum, construction, manufactur-
ing, transport and public utilities. Agricultural production increased slowly
(about 1.5 percent per annum). The growth rate of GNP was even higher, about
8.6 percent per annum, because of the massive growth in workers' remittances
from $189 million in 1974 to $2.1 billion in 1979. The higher level of
economic activity together with large-scale labor migration to neighboring oil
exporting countries has absorbed much of the excess labor force that existed
in the early 1970's. In fact, labor shortages have occurred in a number of
occupations, especially in the construction sector.
10.       Egypt's investment rate (investment/GNP) increased from about
18 percent in 1974 to about 30 percent on average in the 1976-79 period.
This increase was made possible by the substantial contribution of foreign
savings as well as the rapid growth in national savings. The latter
increased from seven percent of GNP in 1974 to more than 19 percent in 1979,
largely reflecting the rise in remittance income. The domestic savings
rate, however, while showing some growth since 1974, financed less than
a quarter of investment in the 1974-79 period. A major cause for this
inadequate level of domestic savings was the continuously low and often



- 4 -
negative savings generated by the consolidated government budget. During
1974-79, the current budget showed a small surplus in only two out of six
years. This was the result of high defense and security expenditures,
large consumer subsidies, fast growing interest payments and low financial
rates of return generated by public enterprises excluding the Suez Canal
Authority and the Petroleum Corporation. The result has been a continuous
shortage of domestic savings which has slowed down the implementation of
investment projects and led to inflationary financing practices in the
public sector.
Recent Economic Developments
11.       The last two years mark the emergence of the petroleum sector as
the dominant sector in the Egyptian economy. Production of crude oil is
at present averaging close to 550,000 barrels a day. After the 1979 round
of increases in the world price of oil, Egyptian oil exports doubled in
value. In 1980 export revenues from crude petroleum and refined products
will be close to $2.5 billion compared to $800 million in 1978. The share
of the petroleum sector in GDP has risen from less than three percent in the
early 1970's to eight percent in 1978 and is estimated at 22 percent in 1980.
Moreover, profit transfers and other taxes from the petroleum sector will
provide an estimated 30 percent of government revenue in 1980. It must be
stressed, however, that present production levels reflect very high produc-
tion to reserve ratios and that maintenance of these production levels after
the mid-1980's would require more new discoveries. Domestic consumption is
growing very rapidly so that the size of the exportable surplus may be diffi-
cult to maintain. It is hoped that recently discovered national gas fields
prove to be large enough and can be developed rapidly enough to release
sufficient quantities of petroleum for export. It is also very important that
efforts to increase production of energy are complemented by measures designed
to achieve more efficient domestic use of energy. In this context more
appropriate energy pricing is of crucial importance. Bank financed studies
on petroleum product pricing and natural gas use are currently underway and
should form the basis for a comprehensive reform of energy use and pricing
policies.
12.      Reflecting the sharp increase in petroleum revenues and also the
higher tariffs for Suez Canal traffic, Egypt's foreign exchange earnings
continued to grow rapidly in 1979 and 1980. At $1.5 billion, the current
account deficit in 1979 was lower in relation to GDP (8.7 percent) than
in any year since 1973. Medium and long-term capital inflows declined
somewhat when compared to the level realized in 1978 ($3.1 billion compared
to $3.4 billion) reflecting the cessation of cash inflows from GODE ($500
million in 1978) and a drastic decline in bilateral disbursements from Arab
sources (about $70 million in 1979 compared to about $300 million in 1978).
This reduction was partly compensated for by a significant increase in
direct foreign investment ($710 million in 1979 compared to $439 million in
1978) and an increase in non-Arab bilateral and multilateral aid flows.



5
As a result, the basic balance (current account plus net MLT capital flows)
showed a surplus ($598 million) and there has been a significant increase in
the level of foreign exchange reserves. Preliminary estimates for 1980
indicate another surplus year for the basic balance, with petroleum revenues
at about $2.5 billion, Suez Canal earnings close to $850 million and gross MLT
capital flows reaching $3.7 billion, significantly higher than in 1979.
13.       Reforms in exchange rate and investment incentive policies have con-
tributed significantly to the recent improvements in the balance of payments.
The current account and the trade balance remain weak, however, and in the
mid-1980's Egypt will have to deal with substantial debt-service payments.
Longer-term prospects depend on Egypt's ability to improve her trade balance.
In the absence of major new petroleum discoveries, this will require more
efficient use of domestic energy resources, growth in manufactured exports and
a moderation in import growth. Continued care must be taken, therefore, to
keep incentives appropriate and to choose investment projects taking account
of their long-term impact on the balance of payments.
14.       The domestic fiscal situation and the inflationary pressures it has
generated remain an area of major concern. After 1978, inflation, reaching 20
percent for the first time in decades, has created considerable social tension.
In the summer of 1980 a major reorganization of the government was announced
by President Sadat, including wide ranging economic measures to redress a
deteriorating social climate. Most of these measures mark a pause in the
process of liberalization and rationalization of the price system. The prices
of some commodities and services supplied by the public sector have actually
been reduced, subsidies have been increased and there has been an across the
board increase in wages and salaries. Import duties have been lowered on a
wide range of producer and consumer goods. The recent increases in the fiscal
contribution of the petroleum sector as well as increased revenues from the
enlarged Suez Canal, may momentarily balance these increased subsidies and
public expenditures. But the underlying public sector resource equilibrium
remains precarious. A better system for targeting subsidies and a sweeping
rationalization of public sector pricing policies are preconditions for any
long-term improvement in the fiscal situation. Moreover, without such an
improvement, it will not be possible to control inflationary pressures and
resulting social problems. Recognizing the challenge posed by future trends,
the government has announced plans for tax reform and a reform of public
sector financing practices. A new National Investment Bank is to supervise
and finance all public sector investment projects with the objective of
economizing resources and speeding up the implementation of projects. It has
also been announced that a new expenditure tax will attempt to compensate for
the very low level of revenues from direct income taxes.



- 6-
Development Potential and Constraints
15.       Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled and literate population, an agricultural resource base not yet
fully developed, varied raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key
geographical location. Future economic growth may come less easily, how-
ever, than during the past years.  The gradual need to substitute domestic
for foreign savings will become more pressing as net foreign contributions
decline in relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained in a number of
sectors, including infrastructure.  The expansion of new capacities has
been slowed down by administrative inefficiency, inadequate fiscal resources
and weakness in national coordination and sector programming. Managerial
effectiveness in public enterprises and financial incentives for production
are often inadequate. Higher levels of economic activity together with labor
emigration have led to shortages in critical professional and technical
skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still reflect a non-technical bias
and their quality needs to be upgraded.
16.       Another key issue is population.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 41 million in 1979 with an average density
exceeding 1,300 per square kilometer of agricultural land--the population
has grown at a rate of about 2.5 percent per annum in the 1970's, adding
almost one million people every year. Moreover, almost half of this increase
is concentrated in the greater Cairo area alone. This continues to create
great pressures on resources for consumption and investment and aggravates
the employment problem in the longer run. In the past years the Government
has made a new commitment to direct action on population matters. While it
has already initiated a more aggressive program (e.g., by introducing an
intensified home visiting program under the second IDA financed population
project), it will take considerable time to achieve measurable results in
fertility reduction.
17.       A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been
a deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing dis-
parity in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of
absolute poverty is no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar
income levels, continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective
taxation of high income groups could lead to serious social problems.
18.       To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural con-
straints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to (i) increase the
efficiency of government administration through organization and procedural
modifications and selective changes in salary structures; (ii) increase
real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of domestic
resources and fiscal reform; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced program
to upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) adopt urban and
rural strategies aimed at decentralizing urban growth and economic oppor-
tunities; (v) develop a coordinated export promotion policy and finally



- 7 -
(vi) strengthen the general use of prices as meaningful indicators of
relative scarcitles. There is an ongoing dialogue on all these important
issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank. They have also been
the focus of discussions among the members of the Consultative Group for
Egypt.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.       Egypt's non-military medium and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of December 31, 1979 was estimated at about $11.2 billion.
Bilateral loans comprised about 6.9 billion or about 62 percent of the debt
outstanding while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit
were about 23.0 and 9 percent respectively, with the remainder being held
by financial institutions. Major creditors were the GODE and USA, followed
by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt
comprised about 5 percent of the total disbursed debt. Debt service on
medium and long-term debt was estimated at $1.3 billion in 1979 giving a
debt service ratio of about 20 percent.
20.       If progress towards overcoming structural constraints can be
achieved and the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the
deficit on the current account can be kept at about 12 percent of GDP on
average. The required capital Inflows are large--but If they continue to
be available on concessional terms, Egypt would have the debt servicing
capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged, including a limited amount on
harder terms. The burden of servicing medium and long-term debt as a
percentage of total foreign exchange earnings is estimated to fluctuate
between 20 and 25 percent over the next 5 years.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT I/
21.       The proposed loan would be the World Bank's fifty-third lending
operation. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970 to
$1916.5 million. Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted in
the development of the agriculture, industry, power and energy, population,
transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and education sectors.
Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of September 30,
1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and In close cooperation with other
donors. Its strategy involves entry into the spectrum of sectors in
order to provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the corresponding part of
the President's Report for the Third Education Project (P-2897-EGT),
approved by the Executive Directors on October 7, 1980.



- 8 -
resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies, and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive action
oni a coherent framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle
the substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of technical
assistance not only for adequate implementation of specific investment programs
but for developing the domestic institutional capability to articulate and
implement future policies and investment programs. The Bank's deliberately
broad multisectoral intervention has been differentiated by sectors and
tailored to the pace at which the Egyptian authorities can reasonably be
expected to address these issues and implement the programs.
23.       Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector
receiving the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention,
illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The Govern-
ment looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of
the economy, create productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs,
and generate an "export surplus". However, this sector is beset by complex
problems which stem largely from the rigidity of centralized control and
lack of management autonomy, distorted pricing, and the lack of incentives
for more efficient production. Efforts under Bank-financed projects have
gone beyond tbe immediate objective of improving capacity utilization
(Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456) and in-
creasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities in
resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
projects). The more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing
policy and structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank is assist-
ing the Government in reviewing the planning apparatus and strengthening
sectoral planning and project preparation and implementation capabilities
with the objective of formulating an industrial strategy and plan for the
1980's. It has also financed six subsector studies in textiles, building
materials, pulp and paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering
industries, in order to assist the Government in formulating a package of
policy and investment proposals, which are also embodied in our projects.
Two subsectors, textiles and steel, are planned for further study with a
view to developing specific recommendations about some of the major issues
facing public enterprises in Egypt, such as those relating to employment,
wages, prices, profit retention and the relationship to the private
sector. To complement these efforts the Bank has also carried out a study
on small-scale industries which we hope would form a basis for joint Bank/
Egyptian efforts in this area.  Finally, the Bank is assisting the Government
in a comprehensive study of the construction/contracting industry, which
is one of the major bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today, as well as in
initiating studies to develop a brick master plan and cement distribution
master plan.
24.       The illustrative sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of
the Bank-s intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted
approach that it has adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of the
Egyptian economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with the Egyptian
Government's wishes but is welcomed by the various bilateral and multilateral
donors as an appropriate function for the Bank as the Chairman of the Consul-
tative Group. Preparation of projects for future lending follows this strategy,



- 9 -
and the pipeline includes projects in education, power, gas development, rural
and urban development, population and nutrition, transportation, water supply,
agriculture (including drainage), development finance and industry.
25.       Bank Group disbursements in 1979 represent about 8 percent of
Egypt's medium and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of
total external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 2.1 percent and 2.9
percent, respectively, as of December 31, 1979. For the future, the Bank and
IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 5.5 and 3.5 percent respectively in 1981.
It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively, of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt.
26.       IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total about
$69 million and include: a ceramics project (approved in 1976); a ready-made
garment project (1977); a project for an agricultural complex primarily for
sugar beet (1978); a poultry project (1978); a fish farming project (1979);
and a building materials project (1980). IFC is discussing several other
private sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - OIL AND GAS SECTOR
Introduction
27.       Egypt½s energy outlook has continuously improved over the last
decade. With the commissioning of the Aswan High Dam, Egypt developed its
largest hydroelectric resource. Increases in oil production have made Egypt
first self-sufficient and, more recently, an exporter of oil. In 1980, petro-
leum exports are expected to account for 60 percent of its foreign trade
receipts. Gas finds have further strengthened the energy base and increased
export possibilities of oil. These positive developments notwithstanding, the
medium and long term outlook is not as clear. Much of Egypt-s current economic
and industrial planning is predicated upon ample and continued availability of
low cost energy and a significant increase in oil exports. However, it is not
certain that this will necessarily come about. A fast growing domestic demand
for oil stimulated by prices well below the international level, declining
production from some of Egypt's existing major oil fields, the need for
increased efforts in exploration and in developing oil and natural gas, are
the areas of principal concern.
Resource Endowment
28.       The main sources of primary commercial energy in Egypt are hydro
power and petroleum. Coal deposits have been discovered in the Western
Desert and Sinai peninsula, and are estimated at around 100 million tons. A
pre-feasibility study for a coal-fired power plant in Sinai is presently under
preparation. As in other developing economies, non-commercial fuels in the
form of crop residues and animal waste are in extensive use and are estimated



- 10 -
to represent about one quarter of the energy used. Hydro power for Egypt is
an important source and in 1978 accounted for 17 percent of primary commercial
energy. By equipping the Aswan Dam with turbine generators having a total
capacity of 345 MW, the first step was taken in 1960 to tap the hydro power
potential of the river Nile. With the completion of the Aswan High Dam in
1970, having an installed capacity of 2100 MW, 80 percent of the Nile's hydro
power potential has been harnessed. Under Credit 1052-EGT and Loan No.
1886-EGT, the Bank is financing the installation of four turbine generators
which would increase the generating capacity of the old Aswan Dam by 270 MW.
The remaining 60 meter drop between Aswan and Cairo and the mini-hydro sites
along irrigated canals connected to the Nile represent a generating potential
of 460 MW which, subject to the establishment of economic viability, could be
exploited.
Oil and Gas
29.       Hydrocarbons are a major source of commercial energy in Egypt and on
account of limited hydro potential, are likely to be relied upon increasingly
for meeting Egypt-s incremental demand for energy. Although the first oil well
in Egypt was drilled in 1886, oil exploration was not taken up on a systematic
basis until the turn of the century. Commercial production commenced in 1913,
but it was only after 1968 that oil production exceeded 10 million tons. The
current production level is around 550,000 barrels a day (27.5 million tons
per annum) of which about 25 percent represents the share of foreign partners,
45 percent is consumed domestically and the balance is exported. Recoverable
reserves are estimated at around 2.5 billion barrels (350 million tons).
30.       Besides oil, Egypt has significant gas resources in both associated
and non-associated form. Most of the associated gas comes from the oil fields
in the Gulf of Suez. Recent oil discoveries have added further to the avail-
ability of gas and the recoverable reserves of associated gas are currently
estimated at 1.2 1/ trillion cubic feet (tcf). The Bank, through Loan 1732-EGT,
is financing a project which will gather, process, and transport this gas to
Suez and Cairo.   In addition, non-associated gas in commercial quantities
has been discovered at Abu Gharadig, Abu Madi, Abu Qir, Abu Qir North, and the
Amal fields 2/, and the recoverable reserves are estimated at 4.9 tcf. Thus,
Egypt-s currently known gas reserves (associated and non-associated) are
estimated at about 6 tcf, equivalent to 150 million tons of oil, i.e., almost
half of Egypt's presently-established recoverable oil reserves. Estimates of
reserves, level of production and anticipated production, in respect of each
field, on full development is indicated below:
1/   One trillion cubic feet of gas, in terms of thermal value, is equivalent
to 24 million tons of oil.
2/   See map IBRD No. 15212.



- 11 -
Recoverable      -------In MMcf/d ------------------
Reserves           Actual      Estimated        Projected
Area              (Trillion cft)   1977   1978        1979         1980    1985
Associated Gas
Gulf of Suez          1.2          Flared  Flared   Flared        Flared   80 1/
Non-Associated Gas
Abu Madi              1.0           16       19        30          50      110
Abu Gharadig          0.6           32      55         60         100      100
Abu Qir               1.8           -       -          22          55     200 3/
Abu Qir North         1.0           -       -          -          Under delineation
Amal 2/               0.5                              -           -        -
6.1          48       74        112        205      490
Exploration Policy
31.       For exploration, development and production of oil, Egypt has
consistently followed an "open-door policy and almost all exploration and
production work undertaken within the country has been through foreign oil
companies. The exploration policy, as pursued by Egypt, has served well the
Government's objective of maximizing oil production, without bearing any risk
of exploration. Of the present level of production of 550,000 barrels per
day, as much as 530,000 barrels are produced from these concessions. Since
1973, about 60 exploration and production agreements have been entered into
with foreign companies, for an area covering more than 200,000 sq. kms. At
present these production sharing agreements provide on average for a split of
oil in the ratio of 1:3 between the foreign contractors and the national oil
company.
32.       So far, Egypt has not been successful in eliciting interest of the
foreign oil companies to explore in areas known to hold potential, largely
for gas. In fact, whenever a foreign company in search of oil discovered gas
in commercial quantities, the concession was relinquished and the gas field
was developed by EGPC, the national oil company. This was on account of the
fact that export of gas through liquification was not attractive except for
very large gas fields and the domestic market was neither well developed nor
1/   A flow rate of 100 MMcfd is equivalent to about 1 million tons of fuel
oil per annum.
2/   Production planned only on the contingency that associated gas for the
Gulf of Suez project falls below 80 MMcfd.
3/   It being assumed that EGPC will fully develop this field by 1985.  Its
present production potential is 100 MMcfd.



- 12 -
financially attractive. Rapidly rising prices of liquid hydrocarbons over the
past few years have made the export of gas a more remunerative proposition.
In order to attract foreign oil companies to explore for gas, EGPC is currently
considering permitting export of gas, once the national reserve requirements
of 12 trillion cubic feet are established. In the meantime, foreign oil
companies which help in the build-up of national reserves, from the presently
established 6 tcf to the targeted 12 tcf, would depending upon the size of the
discovery, besides being reimbursed for exploration costs, also receive cash
incentives.   It is hoped that these incentives would provide the required
stimulus to exploration in gas prone areas.
Current and Anticipated Level of Oil Production
33.       There has been an impressive recovery in the production of oil in
Egypt, which increased from 11.5 million tons in 1974 to 20.9 million tons in
1977, a level which had earlier been attained in 1969. Oil production slowed
thereafter with output growing by 17% (24.3 million tons) in 1978, 3% (25.1
million tons) in 1979, and an estimated 10% (27.5 million tons) for 1980,
against an average annual growth of 40% in the previous three years. The
slowdown in oil production reflects the lack of any major new discovery, and
the fact that oil fields in the Gulf of Suez, which currently account for
80% of Egypt's oil production, are peaking. Petroleum production is expected
to fall short of the official target of 47 million tons in 1983 by a signifi-
cant margin. Present assessment is that oil production, inclusive of natural
gas, is unlikely to exceed 31 million tons in 1983 and 35 million tons in
1985. Furthermore, unless major discoveries are made in the meantime, Egypt
could be faced with the prospects of a rapid decline in oil production after
1985. In this context, it would be useful if GPC carried out a study to
evaluate the technical and economic feasibility of initiating an enhanced/
secondary recovery program. Therefore, GPC agreed to undertake and complete
by June 30, 1981 such a study, for selected oil fields, with the help of
consultants. On completion of the study GPC will, in consultation with the
Bank, prepare a program of enhanced/ secondary recovery, if the results of
the study so warrant (Project Agreement, Section 2.08).
Consumption Pattern
34.       The consumption of petroleum products (including natural gas) has
been rising sharply, increasing from 6.7 million tons in 1974 to 9.1 million
tons in 1977 and to an estimated 11.7 million tons in 1979. The overall
annual growth rate has been in the order of 11.8 percent and over the next
two years EGPC anticipates a 12.5 percent growth in consumption. Furthermore,
in the absence of demand management and/or significant increase in the price
levels, this growth rate is likely to be maintained through 1985, when the
consumption is anticipated to reach 20 million tons. This relatively high
growth rate is attributable, in part, to a quantum jump in terms of. power
generation which is projected to rise from 17 billion kWh in 1980 to 28
billion kWh in 1985, leading to an increase in the consumption of fuel oil
and/or natural gas from 6 million tons to about 13 million tons. To the



- 13 -
extent additional quantities of natural gas become available, draft on fuel
oil would be reduced and it would be released for exports. The growth rate
beyond 1985 would depend, in part, on the introduction of coal (essentially
imported) fired and nuclear power plants. After 1990 Egypt hopes to commis-
sion a nuclear plant having a capacity of 600 MW. Delays in commissioning
the proposed plants would result in a greater reliance on fuel oil for power
generation. A summary of Egypt's energy balance is included at Annex III.
Energy Sector Issues and Bank Lending Strategy
35.       Whereas Egypt is currently a net exporter of energy, its longer
term capability to continue as a net exporter of energy is not assured.
Hydropower has been harnessed to the extent of about 80%. Coal deposits
exist, but when developed would only have a marginal impact on Egypt's resource
base. Hydrocarbons appear to be the only source which can sustain Egypt's
incremental demand for energy. Sharply rising domestic consumption, coupled
with prospects of reduced productivity from existing oil fields, could rapidly
erode the country's exportable surplus of oil. Egypt's energy strategy during
the 1980's must therefore address itself to three important policy issues:
firstly, the formulation of adequate demand management policies, especially
in regard to pricing, to curtail the sharp growth in internal consumption;
secondly, rapid development of its oil and natural gas resources, specifically
by stimulating both exploratory efforts in structures which are believed to
hold potential for gas, and accelerating the development of known gas fields;
and finally, diversifying and upgrading the use of natural gas within the
economy, so that it could release relatively high value liquid hydrocarbons
for export. Egypt's status as an exporter of oil during the eighties would,
in large measure, depend upon the success of these policies. The objective
of the Bank's technical and financial assistance to the sector has been to
provide critical inputs on these issues.
36.      The price system in Egypt is still characterized by extensive central-
ized control and involves substantial explicit or implicit subsidies on many
goods and services. The domestic prices of petroleum products in Egypt are,
on average, less than one-fourth of their opportunity cost (i.e., international
equivalent) to the economy (Annex IV). Besides depriving the government of
an opportunity to mobilize resources, the low prices for energy continue to
hinder the ability of the entities in the power sector to generate sufficient
revenues to finance the capital investment necessary to meet future needs.
In addition, the prevailing pricing structure does not reflect the relative
scarcity of energy, and is leading to its use in a non-optimal combination.
Increasing the domestic prices of energy resources to approximate the inter-
national level should be the goal of the national energy pricing policy.
However, this is a long-term objective which is primarily determined by the
ability of the Egyptian economy to structurally adjust and absorb the new
higher prices. This adjustment is particularly difficult in the Egyptian
economy with its extensive system of subsidies, price controls, and quantity
rationing where the impact of increases in the price of energy requires
careful analysis. To provide the foundation for specific pricing recommenda-
tions in the petroleum and power sub-sectors, the Bank is financing a major



- 14 -
pricing study for petroleum products (through Loan 1732-EGT) and an electricity
tariff study (through Loan 1453-EGT). The studies are in progress and the
Bank is closely involved in monitoring them. Under existing agreements, the
Government of Egypt and the implementing agencies will review the studies'
recommendations with the Bank and agree upon a course of action. It is
anticipated that the petroleum pricing study will be completed by October 31,
1981.
37.       Pending the outcome of the above studies, the Bank intends to con-
tinue its dialogue with the Government, aimed at bringing about improvements
in energy pricing policy affecting key petroleum products and electricity
tariffs. In this regard, the Government has indicated its intention to bring
about, over the next few years, a gradual real increase in average energy
prices, so as to significantly reduce this gap in nominal terms. Where energy
is used by public sector economic enterprises, the Government intends to pass
the additional costs on to final consumers, except in a limited number of
identified cases (e.g., mass transportation) where conservation goals dictate
a different policy. Efforts to secure more realistic prices in the energy
sector have so far yielded mixed results. In January 1980, the Government of
Egypt increased the prices of petroleum products, with the exception of LPG
and fuel oil, by about 20%. Under the Cairo Gas Distribution project, the
Government agreed to increase the price of natural gas substantially above
the current price of city gas and Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG). In the
electricity sector, the tariff structure for domestic consumers has been
improved substantially by changing from a declining block structure (lower
average bills for higher consumption) to an increasing block structure (higher
average bills for higher consumption). Also, rates for irrigation consumers
have been increased. On the other hand, tariffs for industrial consumers,
especially heavy industry, have not been increased. This issue will be
addressed in the electricity tariff and petroleum product pricing studies
referred to above.
38.       In addition to addressing the issue of an appropriate pricing
policy, the Bank's lending strategy in the sector has been to help Egypt
develop its hydrocarbon resource base and upgrade the use of natural gas.
The objective of the first loan in the oil and gas sector was to retrieve and
utilize natural gas which was being flared in the Gulf of Suez. In order to
assist Egypt in its exploratory efforts, the Bank also financed an exploration
study and the first results of this study appear to confirm the existence of
what could be a large hydrocarbon resource in the area adjoining the existing
Abu Gharadig gas and oil fields, in the Western Desert. Exploration study for
the rest of the Western Desert is continuing. Separately, the Bank financed
consultants to re-interpret the existing geological drilling and production
data of the Abu Qir gas field. This has resulted in the identification of
additional gas reserves. Production from this gas field, after drilling nine
to twelve offshore development wells, could be increased from 100 MMcfd to
200 MMcfd. This would enable Egypt to meet the rapidly growing demand of
Alexandria. The results of these studies have prompted the Egyptian Govern-
ment to seek the Bank's assistance for the development of the Abu Qir gas



- 15 -
field and for exploration under the proposed project in the Western Desert.
Besides identifying new gas resources, Egypt would need to upgrade the use
of gas. Presently, 90% of the gas is being utilized to substitute relatively
low value fuel oil. The Bank is currently financing a gas utilization study
which will prepare a gas development plan to optimize its use. Even now,
before the study is completed, there are known areas where gas may be used
as a substitute for higher value liquid fuels such as LPG, kerosene, motor
gasoline and diesel. The Cairo Gas Distribution Project aimed at upgrading
its use to replace LPG, kerosene and diesel oil. The proposed project con-
tains a provision for a pilot project which would aim at using natural gas
to replace gasoline and diesel oil as automotive fuels.
Bank Group Participation in the Energy Sector
39.       The Bank Group is supporting three projects in Egypt's power
sector.  A loan (1453-EGT) of $48 million was made in 1977 for regional
electrification providing for rehabilitation and extension of electric power
facilities serving a regional population in urban zones and rural centers
outside Cairo and Alexandria. Progress on the project is satisfactory and
the project is expected to be completed on schedule by the end of 1980.
In June 1979 an IDA credit of $37 million, a Bank loan of $102 million,
and an EEC Special Action credit of $35 million (Loan 1733-EGT et al.) were
approved to help finance part of the foreign cost of the first stage (600 MW)
of a 900 MW thermal power station at Shoubrah El Kheima. Bidding documents
for civil works and electro-mechanical equipment are expected to be issued
in late 1980. In June 1980, an IDA credit of $120 million and a Bank loan
of $7 million (Credit 1052-EGT and Loan 1886-EGT) were approved to help
finance a third power project which includes the expansion of the Shoubrah El
Kheima power station together with the installation of additional hydropower
generation facilities at Aswan and a regional electrification component. In
the oil and gas sector, the Bank made a first loan of $75 million to the
Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) for the Gulf of Suez Gas Project
(Loan 1732-EGT) in June 1979. The project also includes financing for several
important sector studies covering energy pricing, oil/gas reserve assessment
and optimal utilization of gas as mentioned above. An IDA Credit of $50
million (Credit 1024-EGT) was made in May 1980 to support a domestic gas
distribution project in four Cairo suburbs. Implementation of both these
projects is progressing satisfactorily.
Sector Institution and Beneficiaries
40.       The Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) would be the
borrower of the proposed loan. It was created in 1956; it functions as a
holding company and by virtue of its statutes oversees the entire spectrum
of oil and oil-related operations within the Egyptian economy. Its activities
range from exploration to downstream operations like marketing and refining.
However, except for foreign trade in crude oil and refined products, EGPC
works through fully owned subsidiaries for refining, transportation, and
marketing, and through foreign partners for exploration. As the project



- 16 -
consists of two distinct components, to be implemented by two separate sub-
sidiaries of EGPC, it was considered operationally advisable to make the
loan to EGPC, which in turn would make it available to the relevant subsi-
diaries (para. 52). All EGPC's subsidiaries operate essentially on a "cost
plus" basis and charge EGPC a fee for processing crude oil and marketing and
distributing petroleum products.
41.       The only exception to the above is the General Petroleum Company
(GPC), a fully owned subsidiary of EGPC and the principal beneficiary of
the proposed loan, which explores for, produces, and trades, in crude oil.
GPC was established on June 1, 1957, with a paid-up capital of LE1 million.
Its present equity, including reserves, stands at LE62 million. Currently
it owns and operates eight producing fields in the Eastern Desert and three
producing fields in the Sinai. Production from these fields, in 1979, was a
little over one million tons. Its current exploration activities extend to
the Eastern and Western Deserts and the Sinai Peninsula. Most of the oil
produced by GPC is of relatively poor quality with an average specific gravity
of 230 AP1. Furthermore, as the oil fields it operates have peaked, the
production level over the past five years has been declining. Nonetheless,
these factors have been more than offset by a sharp increase in the price of
oil over the same period and the company is financially sound. Over the
coming years, the company will be called upon to make larger investments
in exploration, enhanced recovery, and production from marginal pay zones.
Presently it exports most of its production, although part of it is sold
domestically or transferred to EGPC as royalty.
42.       Petrogas, another fully owned subsidiary of EGPC, would be respon-
sible for undertaking the feasibility study and pilot project relating to the
conversion of automobiles to natural gas. Petrogas was created in September
1978 and is responsible for the storage, distribution, and marketing of LPG
in Egypt. However, the primary objective of its creation was to promote and
implement a natural gas distribution network in Cairo and upon its completion
to function as a gas utility. As this company is responsible for the distri-
bution of bottled gas (LPG), and is presently establishing a gas distribution
network in Cairo, it is best suited to undertake the proposed pilot project.
Petrogas is the beneficiary of IDA Credit No. 1024-EGT, which provides finan-
cial assistance for this distribution network.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
43.       The exploration study financed under the Gulf of Suez project, aimed
at collating and reinterpreting existing geological, seismic, and drilling
data. As a part of this study, an area covering about 3,500 square kilometers
in the Western Desert and adjoining the Abu Gharadig gas fields (see map) was
selected for detailed geophysical, stratigraphical, and reservoir analysis.
Consultants were appointed in October 1979 and their report became available



- 17 -
in April 1980. Twenty five hydrocarbon prospects were identified, of which
eight were considered extremely promising, warranting early drilling. The
proposed project was identified in April 1980 and appraised in July 1980.
Loan negotiations were held in Washington on October 27-31, 1980. The Govern-
ment of Egypt was represented by Mr. A. M. El-Gammal, Acting Director General,
Ministry of Economy; EGPC was represented by Messrs. Abdel-Aziz and El Nabi
Asal, Deputy Chairmen, GPC by Mr. M. Wasfi, Chairman, and Petrogas by Mr. Abu
Bakr, Chairman. The loan and project summary appears at the beginning of this
Report. There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report.
Hydrocarbon-related Geology and Stratigraphy
44.       Stratigraphic sequences in the area under study range from pre-
Jurassic to Recent. The prospective formations known so far are sands in
the Abu Roash and Bahariya (Middle and early Upper Cretaceous age) which are
separated from the overlying Khoman formation of late Upper Cretaceous age
by a major unconformity. The stratigraphic and sedimentological studies of
these sands suggest deposition in a restricted, shallow marine shelf environ-
ment. Individual sand bodies may be of limited extent, within an overall
sandy trend. However, the isopach and lithofacies maps of these formations
point to the existence of such sands, at least in part, over the area under
study. The Abu Roash (Zone "G") and Bahariya show the best possibilities
of a good lateral continuity throughout the area. The reservoir porosities/
permeability are generally fair, though the permeability will depend to a
large extent on the shale content of the sand horizon. Most of the struc-
tures are related to a fault system which generally follows an east west
Mediterranean trend, although a significant number of different trends are
also present. The prospective structures are complex and most structural
closures result from the fault system. The quality of the seismic records is
fair to good and the present seismic map reflects the structures with a good
accuracy, although more detailed survey will be needed to locate the wells.
(See Annex V for a fuller discussion.)
Exploration History
45.       Within the study area (see map), two prospective areas were recog-
nized by the Gulf of Suez Petroleum Company (GUPCO) and Braspetro, 1/ about 18
and 30 kilometers respectively to the south east and south west of the Abu
Gharadig fields. GUPCO drilled the south eastern part of the area (Abu Sennan
1), encountered gas shows at several intervals and tested gas from a sandstone
in the Abu Roash formation. Two wells were drilled by Braspetro in the south
western part of the area. One well was abandoned dry, but the other (BRE
23-2), tested gas, at a rate of 15 MMcfd, with condensates from a sandstone
interval reported to be in the Bahariya zone. Several other wells were
drilled near the study area; some of these detected hydrocarbon shows,
the most important being WD5-1, which tested gas from the Abu Roash and the
Bahariya formation. Drilling data from 12 such wells were used by the consult-
ant for evaluating the hydrocarbon prospects of the area. In the adjoining
Abu Gharadig fields, oil is being produced from the Abu Roash zone and gas
from the Bahariya sands.
1/ Exploration subsidiary of the Brazilian National Oil Company (Petrobras).



- 18 -
Hydrocarbon Prospects
46.       The main conclusion from the past exploration record is that the
area has a high potential for hydrocarbon accumulations, possibly oil but
mainly gas. Although no geochemical source rock study has been undertaken,
the evidence of hydrocarbon generation comes from the abundance of shows in
the earlier wells. Reservoirs of fair quality are present at several levels
in the Abu Roash and Bahariya formations, the lowest horizons showing better
characteristics, thickness, and continuity. A large number of structures are
already known, some of large size. More can probably be found with comple-
mentary seismic surveys which will be carried out as a part of the project.
Of the 14 exploratory wells drilled in the late 60's and early 70's, five
of these had gas production capability. However, foreign oil companies
had little interest in developing the gas potential at prices of petroleum
products prevailing at that time and for this reason no further drilling was
undertaken.
47.       After the study of all the relevant geological, seismic, and drill-
ing data, the exploration study has concluded that the main prospects for
hydrocarbon discovery are in sands within the Abu Roash and Bahariya forma-
tions. On the basis of reflection seismic surveys, some 25 structures have
been mapped on the top of the Abu Roash reflecting horizon, of which eight are
considered as potential drilling prospects. The methodology followed by the
consultants and the evidence on which they based their conclusions has been
reviewed by EGPC, GPC, and the Bank staff, and found to be acceptable. The
statistically determined quantity of gas in place is 5.7 tcf. Assuming
a recovery factor of 65%, recoverable reserves would be of the order of 3.7
tcf. Until more wells have been drilled, this figure should be taken only as
a general indication of the prospectiveness of the area and that these prob-
ability estimates are subject to considerable variation and will be reassessed
after each well.
48.       According to consultants, five of these prospects are drill-
able with presently available information and three are considered drillable,
if the recommended seismic program confirms the structure as presently mapped.
However, for optimum location of exploration wells, it was considered prudent
to shoot additional seismic lines over all structures excepting Abu Sennan
For each structure, a "ranking index" was calculated which takes into account
the average success ratio in the area, a confidence factor related to the
geological and geophysical characteristics of the structure, and the probability
that each structure as mapped is, in fact, present, and will prove to be hydro-
carbon bearing. The "ranking index" as evolved by consultants would need to
be reevaluated as data from successive exploratory wells, drilled under the
proposed project, become available. (Details in regard to gas prospects and
methodology adopted for evolving the "ranking index" is at Annex V).
Project Objective
49.       Over the past few years, Egypt has made significant efforts to
utilize natural gas discovered in the course of exploration for oil. Pre-
sently, the supply potential of natural gas (300 MMcfd) is greater than



- 19 -
the cumulative demand for gas (205 MMcfd). The situation is anticipated to
reverse itself rapidly and by 1985 potential gas demand in Egypt is forecast
to exceed the presently established gas supply potential by almost 500 MMcfd.
This shortfall would result in the diversion of liquid hydrocarbons (about
five million tons) from the export market to the domestic market. Insofar as
Cairo is concerned, gas demand would exceed the available gas supply potential
of 100 MMcfd, by a substantial margin, as early as 1981. Therefore, the
objective of the proposed project, is to explore and, if successful, undertake
appraisal drilling in the Abu Gharadig region of the Western Desert. Gas, if
discovered in commercial quantities, would rapidly augment the gas supplies to
Cairo, since the capacity of the existing processing and pipeline facilities
could be doubled (220 MMcfd) with marginal expenditure. Under the proposed
project, a study is also included to review the feasibility of upgrading the
use of gas by using it in place of gasoline, and subsequently diesel oil, in
motor vehicles, and sponsor such conversion of vehicles on a pilot scale.
Depending upon the success of the pilot project, such conversions, if under-
taken on an extensive basis, would release these high value liquid hydrocarbons
for export.
Project Description
50. (a) Seismic
(i) Reprocessing existing seismic records in selected areas
to obtain clearer definition of the Abu Roash zones
and some more complexly faulted areas;
(ii)  Shooting seismic profiles across the structures H, L,
T, P, A, W, G, and Z, amounting to about 170 line-kilo-
meters, to assist in locating the wells;
(iii) Shooting a regional grid of about 900 line-kilo-
meters. This survey is intended to explore for
possible structural closures in areas of poor seismic
control and delineate further some 17 mapped structures
which are not yet considered drillable. Depending
upon the results of the survey, the need for under-
taking additional seismic work would be considered.
(b)  Exploratory and Appraisal Drilling
Drilling about nine exploratory and appraisal wells on
eight identified structures, the structure and location, except
for Abu Senan (X), to be determined on the basis of seismic
survey undertaken at (a) (ii) above. In the event the exploratory
drilling is successful in any of the structures, appraisal
drilling would be undertaken to delineate the extent of the
accumulation. A tentative provision for six exploratory wells
and three appraisal wells has been made, with the understanding
that the present configuration could be altered after the
results of the initial exploratory drilling become available.



- 20 -
(c) Testing and Data Processing
Extensive coring of exploratory wells will be required
in order to secure a basis for calibration of log data and
well test data and to aid in making reserve estimates. Other
tests would, inter alia, include bottom hole sampling of
hydrocarbon fluids and formation water, drill stem tests,
repeat formation tests, etc.
(d) Technical Assistance
Consultant services will be required to provide GPC
with the entire spectrum of technical services from seismic
interpretation to well completion.
(e) Study-cum-Pilot Project for the Conversion of
Automotive Vehicles to Compressed Natural Gas
This component would evaluate the feasibility of
converting gasoline, and subsequently diesel-fueled
vehicles, to compressed natural gas (CNG). The proposed
study-cum-pilot project would include consulting and
technical services on the state-of-the-art and its
adaptation to Egyptian conditions, selection of target
groups and procurement of appropriate hardware to convert
vehicles to CNG on a pilot scale, and establishment of CNG
fueling stations. For fuller discussion on natural gas
powered vehicles refer to Annex VI.
Project Cost and Financing
51.      The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties, is estimated
at US$40 million. The foreign exchange component of the project is estimated
at US$32 million. In estimating drilling costs, seven dry holes and two
producers, ranging in depth from 7,500 feet to 10,000 feet, have been assumed.
The cost of mobilization, the contract rate for the drilling rig, and the
expenditures on seismic survey, are all based on lowest-evaluated bids accepted
by GPC. Cost estimates of well services 1/ are based on the prevailing rates
being paid by GPC and other operating companies and are considered reasonable.
Technical services for the exploration program have been estimated at an
average of US$12,000 per man month, including travel, subsistence, and over-
heads, and cost estimates made on 100 man months of work. Consulting services
for the CNG study-cum-pilot project are estimated at an average of US$10,000
per man month based on 50 man months of work. Given the inherent uncertainties
involved in drilling operations, physical contingencies have been assumed at
15% of the drilling costs, price contingencies of 9% and 8% on the foreign
exchange component, and 15% and 12% on local expenditure, have been assumed
for 1981 and 1982 respectively. However, these have not been applied to rig
1/   Electric logs, cementing and perforating casing, and other services
normally performed by specialized contractors.



- 21 -
hire and seismic work, which are covered by existing fixed rate contract.
(Detailed cost breakdown is at Annex VII).
52.       The proposed Bank loan of $25 million would finance 62% of the total
or 78% of the foreign exchange costs of the project. The remaining costs
including cost overruns, if any, would be financed by EGPC and GPC, from their
own resources. The loan would be made to EGPC with the guarantee of the Arab
Republic of Egypt, on standard country terms, i.e., for a period of 20
years including a grace period of 4-1/2 years. EGPC will onlend $23.5 million
to GPC on the same terms and conditions. Furthermore, EGPC would make avail-
able to Petrogas the balance of $1.5 million for undertaking the study-cum-
pilot project for CNG-powered vehicles. If the study should confirm the
feasibility of converting gasoline and subsequently diesel-powered automotive
vehicles to CNG, the assets created under this component of the loan will be
transferred by EGPC to Petrogas as equity. A condition of effectiveness would
be that a subsidiary Loan Agreement between EGPC and GPC has been executed,
(Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(a)).
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Drilling materials and equipment would be procured through interna-
tional competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank's procurement guidelines.
GPC would draw upon its stocks for long lead items such as casing, drill
pipes, bits, etc., to meet its initial requirements. These items would be
replenished with materials procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Further, within the total estimated cost of such equipment, parts, materials,
and consumables, small purchases of up to $100,000 may be procured on the
basis of local procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank, provided that
their aggregate amount does not exceed $1.5 million. The Government of Egypt
was anxious to start drilling in the identified structures as of August, 1980,
for as of next year a severe shortage of natural gas is anticipated to start
developing in Cairo. In order to adhere to this drilling schedule it was
necessary to contract for the drilling rig and seismic work before the proposed
loan had been submitted to the Board of Executive Directors.   In both cases,
bids were secured through limited international tenders, and awarded to the
lowest-evaluated bidder. The need for advanced contracting and the procurement
procedures followed by the borrower were reviewed by the Bank, and found to be
acceptable. Executive Directors were advised of the possibility of advanced
contracting, through the Monthly Operational Summary. The first well was
spudded on August 15, 1980. The value of advanced contracting for seismic
work and drilling rig is not anticipated to exceed $6.5 million. As well
services will not be financed by the Bank, they will be procured in accordance
with GPC's procedures.
54.       Disbursement would be made against:  (i) 100% of the foreign exchange
expenditures for directly imported goods and equipment and 90% of the cost of
those procured locally; (ii) 90% of the expenditures pertaining to seismic
surveys and the drilling rig; and (iii) 100% of the foreign expenditures for
technical assistance and consultants services along with goods and equipment
needed for the CNG component of the project. Retroactive financing of US$2.5
million is recommended to cover drilling and seismic survey expenditures by
GPC as of July 1, 1980. Services relating to drilling works will be eligible



- 22 -
for financing after Bank approval. Such approval will be given by the Bank in
the light of adequate documentation provided by GPC on the nature and condi-
tions of the drilling works concerned (Loan Agreement, Schedule I, Paragraph
4). The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1983.
Implementation & Technical Assistance
Exploration
55.       GPC has been engaging in exploration and production for over twenty
years. It has a cadre of trained geologists and production engineers and
therefore is capable of implementing the proposed project satisfactorily. GPC
formerly used to undertake exploration with its own rigs, but it is now
increasingly relying on the services of specialized drilling contrac-
tors, as is usual in the oil industry. For the purpose of this project, GPC
has hired the Egyptian Drilling Company (EDC), a joint venture between
A.P. Moeller Ltd. (Denmark) and GPC. EDC, which was established in 1976, is
currently operating three offshore rigs and four land rigs in Egypt. Over the
past three years it has satisfactorily drilled more than 60 wells, onshore and
offshore, for a host of international oil companies operating in Egypt. It
is anticipated that EDC will be able to fulfill its contractual obligations
in terms of exploratory drilling. For purposes of specialized well services
such as mud control, cementation, logging, and well completion, GPC would hire
international service companies at its own expense. In order to support and
supplement GPC-s exploration management capabilities, GPC has concurred with
the Bank that external technical assistance, for which financing has been
included under the Loan, would be of considerable advantage. This technical
assistance would relate to seismic field testing at the beginning of the
survey, definition of the survey data processing techniques, location of the
wells, drawing up drilling programs, especially coring, testing, and logging,
assistance in the interpretation of well data and conclusion regarding reser-
voirs and their possible hydrocarbon content, geological structure inter-
pretation, etc., as well as complementary laboratory studies relating to
stratigraphy, sedimentology, and petrophysics. Appointment of consultants on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b)).
56.       The proposed project envisages the drilling of up to nine exploratory
and appraisal wells. This program is expected to be carried out in two years.
Based on the existing seismic and drilling data, the site location of the
first exploratory well (Abu Senan), has been agreed to with GPC. The location
of subsequent wells will be determined by GPC and their consultants on the
basis of additional seismic lines and the results of the previous wells.
It is GPC's intention to submit its recommendations, for siting exploratory
wells, to a high level exploration committee which will review the data and
approve the locations. GPC has agreed that, in order to enable the Bank to
declare the services relating to drilling eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the loan, it will submit to the Bank documentation specific to the
well in question, consisting of: (a) the final report on the immediately pre-
ceding well drilled in the project area, and (b) a pre-location report on the
well proposed to be drilled. Furthermore, after drilling four exploratory
wells GPC has agreed to review with the Bank the results of such drilling and



- 23 -
prepare on the basis of such results and in agreement with the Bank, a further
exploratory program (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part A, Section II). In
case a discovery is made, the project provides for appraisal wells to be
drilled. Prior to undertaking appraisal drilling, GPC will submit to the
Bank, for its review and approval, a study justifying the number and location
of the appraisal wells. This study would, inter alia, include the well
history and logs, test results, and the justification for the location of
the proposed appraisal wells. If appraisal drilling establishes that the
discovery is commercial, GPC will review with the Bank its plan for the
development of the discovery. Furthermore, promptly after the completion of
the project, GPC and their consultants will submit to the Bank a completion
report which will critically evaluate all the data secured under the project
and its implication for future exploratory efforts in the Western Desert
(Project Agreement, Section 2.06(c)).
57.       GPC, as the concessionaire of the project area, would be the owner
of any oil or gas accumulation discovered as a result of this exploration. In
the event of a gas discovery having a gas supply potential of up to 120 MMcfd,
gas will be piped to the existing processing facilities at Abu Gharadig where
the condensates would be removed, the gas dehydrated, and the dry gas trans-
ported, through an existing 24" pipeline, to a receiving station at Dashour
in Cairo. At this point, butane and propane would be removed to constitute
LPG and the stripped gas would be sold to various industrial, commercial, and
domestic consumers in Cairo. Condensates removed at Abu Gharadig would be
transported to El Hamra on the Mediterranean Sea, through an existing crude
oil pipeline. If gas discoveries are of a higher magnitude, then the existing
processing and pipeline facilities would need to be supplemented through
looping, compression, etc. GPC will sell the discovered gas to EGPC at
Abu Gharadig. The present processing and pipeline facilities are owned by
EGPC and operated by GUPCO. Oil, if discovered, would be marketed by GPC. If
the discovery is modest, GPC will use the existing oil pipeline, also operated
by GUPCO, from Abu Gharadig to El Hamra.
Natural Gas Powered Motor Vehicles
58.       Natural gas fueled vehicles have been in extensive use in northern
Italy and southern France for the last three decades. It is relatively
straightforward to convert a gasoline motor vehicle to a dual-fuel vehicle,
which uses CNG as an alternate fuel. No internal change to the engine is
required. Natural gas storage cylinders (two to three) are mounted in the
car trunk and a specially designed gas-air mixer is attached to the existing
carburetor. The vehicle can switch from gasoline to natural gas or vice versa
with the selector mounted on the dashboard, and a range of 200-300 km can
be secured between gas fuelings. The present cost of conversion is about
$600 per vehicle. This is in addition to the cost of compression, which is
$0.13/100 standard cubic feet of gas (equivalent to one US gallon of gasoline).
Diesel engines can also be converted to burn natural gas, but the necessary
technology relating to automotive engines has not been developed to the same
level. Although technically feasible, CNG has not seriously been considered
an option on account of the capital expenses involved in converting vehicles,
setting up gas distribution networks, compression stations, etc., and because
of the inherent convenience of gasoline/diesel as an automotive fuel. How-
ever, with sharply escalating prices of gasoline and diesel oil, CNG offers



- 24 -
an attractive alternative with a high rate of return not only for Egypt, but
also for a large number of developing countries which have a relative surplus
of natural gas, yet have to import liquid hydrocarbons for the transportation
sector (Thailand, Bangladesh, Pakistan, etc.).
59.       Petrogas, the beneficiary under IDA Credit No. 1024-EGT, would be
responsible for undertaking the study-cum-pilot project on the use of natural
gas as an automotive fuel. The study will be carried out by qualified con-
sultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The consultants
would, inter alia, be required to evaluate the costs relating to conversion
of vehicles and compression of natural gas in Egypt and recommend necessary
modifications in technology. The study would propose a price differential
between natural gas and gasoline, so as to provide an adequate incentive for
conversion, identify target groups, and assess the extent to which CNG pene-
tration is feasible in Egypt. It would also draw up a program of action, for
a period of five years, relating to vehicle conversion including the number,
location, and size, of gas compression stations and recommend methods of
recovering costs on this investment. As, initially, a gas network would be
available only in four districts of Cairo, the consultants would study
the logistics and economic feasibility of setting up "satellite stations"
in other districts, which would secure bottled CNG from compression stations
located on the high pressure transmission pipeline. Simultaneously, Petrogas
would undertake a pilot project for converting about a thousand cars to CNG.
The results of this project would be an important input in drawing up the
plan of action. The Government of Egypt agreed to cause Nasr Automotive
Company (a fully government-owned undertaking) to assist Petrogas in under-
taking the CNG study-cum-pilot project (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02).
Financial Aspects, Accounts and Audit
60.       In consonance with its role in Egypt's petroleum sector, EGPC
receives the Government-s share of profit oil from foreign oil companies
and derives its income almost exclusively from the sale of this oil in the
domestic and export markets. Steep increases in profits (from about
LE4 million in 1973 to about LE218 million in 1978) have characterized its
financial position in the last few years, resulting from rising levels of
production, consequent increases in export surpluses, and sharp increases
in the international price for oil. Present income levels should grow
further over the next few years and the prospects for EGPC retaining a more
than adequate level of income are good. Nevertheless, since the major share
of its profits is generally appropriated by the Government, EGPC is expected
to continue to supplement its internal resources with domestic loans and
foreign borrowings to finance its extensive future investments. As the
beneficiary of a Bank loan under the Gulf of Suez Project, it has accordingly
agreed to review its finances, and those of its subsidiaries, annually,
with the view to ensuring adequate debt-servicing capacity, over the longer
term (Loan 1732-EGT). It has also agreed to appoint consultants financed
under Loan 1732-EGT to: (i) review the accounting systems and financial prac-
tices of EGPC and its subsidiaries and their financial relationship with
the Government, (ii) recommend suitable changes in financial policies and
practices, (iii) assist EGPC and its subsidiaries in instituting a system of
medium term planning, and (iv) review and advise on future institutional and
financial arrangements in the gas subsector. This diagnostic study is now



- 25 -
scheduled for completion by end April 1981. EGPC will then consult with the
Bank on its findings and commence the implementation of a time-phased plan
of action by end July, 1981.
61.       GPC's major activity has been confined until now to the production
of crude oil. The Company has maintained a sound financial position through
the export of crude. Net income increased from LE29 million in FY76 to
LE86 million in FY79. As of the end of 1979, 99% of the net assets of LE63
million were represented by EGPC equity. Over the past four years, the level
of GPC's retained reserves has allowed the Company to cover a modest program
of capital expenditure for drilling and field renovation, as well as increases
in financial investments without any external influx of funds. Even though
GPC's oil production is currently depleting at a rate of 10% per year, likely
increases in the international oil prices and even modest success in the
presently planned exploration efforts for oil and gas, would allow GPC to
remain financially sound (See Annex VIII).
62.       Like EGPC, GPC is required by law to prepare full accounts of its
financial position and results of its operations. Financial statements of
the past years have been satisfactorily prepared. As other public sector
companies, this company follows the "Unified Accounting System" established by
a Presidential Decree in 1966. In addition, it has adopted the cost-accounting
system developed by EGPC which is in conformity with the Unified System. For
internal control purposes, it undertakes internal auditing through its own
audit staff. Both EGPC's and GPC's accounts are subject to an annual external
audit by the Central Accounting Authority. The auditors' reports are submitted
to the concerned Ministry of the Government within specified periods after the
end of the fiscal year. GPC and EGPC (for the CNG component) have agreed to
supply the Bank with the copies of project accounts semi-annually, and indepen-
dently audited financial statements of their overall accounts, no later than
nine months after the end of each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(b)
and 5.02, Project Agreement, Section 4.01(b) and 4.02).
Environmental Impact
63.       Seismic explosive shooting, preparation of drilling sites, and
disposal of drilling residues, would cause some temporary disturbance to the
environment. However, no permanent damage is anticipated. Furthermore, these
temporary disturbances would occur in the Western Desert, which is bereft of
human habitation. The drilling contractor is required to equip the rig with
proper safety equipment, including blow-out preventers to avoid damage or
accidental spills. GPC agreed to make adequate safety provision, including
immediate allocation of funds for securing specialized international services
in the event of blow-out, fire, spill, etc. (Project Agreement, Section 3.05).
Schedule and Reporting
64.       Drilling and seismic surveys are under way.  The seismic surveys
will be completed in approximately one year. It is expected that four wells
can be drilled per year. On this basis, it is expected that the drilling
program will be completed in December 1982. The compressed natural gas study



- 26 -
and pilot project is scheduled to be completed by end June 1983. Agreement
was reached with GPC and Petrogas in regard to the submission of well-prognosis
and completion reports, and monthly progress reports, for each component of
the project.
Project Benefit & Risk
65.       The proposed exploration project in the Western Desert will play
a key role in Egypt's current efforts to prove and develop its hydrocarbon
resources. Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of any explor-
atory drilling with certainty, the project area appears, on present evidence,
to be highly prospective. Oil, if discovered, would augment Egypt's exports.
Natural gas, if discovered (as is more probable), would be used domestically
to replace liquid hydrocarbon. Technical and statistical review of the
available geological, geophysical, and drilling data, places the expected
value of gas in place at 5.6 tcf, of which 3.7 tcf should be recoverable.
Based on certain a priori assumptions, the cost of producing gas from this
area would be about $0.45/Mcf, with exploration costs accounting for $0.05/Mcf,
field development for $0.20/Mcf and transportation for $0.20/Mcf. This is
compared to the economic value of the delivered gas which, on the basis of its
opportunity cost as fuel oil replacement, is presently of the order of $4/Mcf.
In addition, this project would represent the first exploratory drilling
venture in the country, directed primarily to a gas-prone area. It would also
be the first significant national investment in exploration and, as such,
would reinforce the technical capability of GPC to participate as an experi-
enced national operator in further petroleum exploration in the country. The
project could also result in a major unquantifiable benefit, should it lead
through the provision of the much needed information, to reactivation of
foreign oil companies' interest in the large, and still unexplored, areas of
the Western Desert.
66.       Although the proposed project is considered to offer a high pro-
bability of success, it is not risk-free. The geological structures and well
location have been or will be selected with great care and on the basis of a
substantial body of geological data and actual hydrocarbon shows, but there
is no way of being sure that gas in commercial quantities will, in fact,
become available. There are also minimal, but operationally serious risks in
the form of "blowout" or other drilling complications. These risks are,
however, inherent in any exploratory drilling program, and industry over a
period of time, has evolved a series of techniques to reduce these risks to
an acceptable level. While the technical feasibility of converting auto-
mobiles to CNG has been firmly established, there is a risk that it would
not find public acceptability. The proposed pilot project would, inter alia,
attempt to assess the implications of this risk.



- 27 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Egyptian General
Petroleum Corporation (EGPC), the draft Project Agreement among the Bank and
the General Petroleum Company (GPC) and the Petroleum Gas Company and the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Bank, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
68.       Features of the Loan, Project and Guarantee Agreements of special
interest are referred to in Section III of Annex IX.
69.       Special conditions of effectiveness of the loan are:  execution of
a subsidiary loan agreement between EGPC and GPC (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01(a)) and the employment by GPC of consultants specialized in well services
(Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b)). A special condition of disbursement
relating to the drilling works under Part A of the project is contained in
para. 4 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 17, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-28-                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                            REFERFJCE GROUPS (VEIGHED AVERAS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                             - NOST RECENT ESTIMTE)
TOTAL           1001.4                                                     MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      29.6                                  MOST RECENT        NORTH ARICA &              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   90.0        150.0     390.0                 698.2                  1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      298.0       275.0     463.0                 545.0                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      25.9        33.3       39.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 37.9         42.2       44.0                 45.7                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       62.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                 ..      101.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                        26.0        33.0      40.0                  40.7                     28.1
PER SQ. 04. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0       1125.0    1343.0                 598.6                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.0        42.1      40.2                  44.0                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                         55.0         54.7      56.3                  52.5                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         3.2       3.5                   3.5                      3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.4         2.5        2.2                  2.6                      2.7
URBAN                               6.0         3.6        3.0                  4.5                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.0        39.0       37.0                 41.6                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.0        15.0       13.0                 13.7                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8/c       3.0        2.3                  2.9                      2.5
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       206.0      187.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          9.0      21.1                  16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0        99.0      91.0                  93.5                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   102.0       104.0     109.0                 103.6                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           73.0        71.0      75.0                  69.8                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0        17.0       19.0                 17.5                     33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      31.0        23.0       18.0                 17.5                      8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.0         51.0       54.0                 54.4                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..          ..      108.0                   ..                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..       66.0                 62.5                     65.9
URBAN                                ..          ..      88.0                  82.9                     80.4
RURAL                                ..          ..      50.0                  45.1                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..                    ..                     62.3
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..                    ,,                     79.4
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..                    ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2600.0      1910.0    1065.OLd              4688.7                   1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2730.0/d    1640.0/d  1150.0/d              1751.5                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             460.0       462.0     470.0                 635.5                    480.3
URBAN                                ..       290.0     250.0
RURAL                                ..      2110.0    2090.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..       5.2
URBAN                               4.8          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..        1.8
URBAN                               1.6          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                *-          *-       45.7
URBAN                              37.8          ..       77.0
RURAL                                ..          ..       19.0



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
EOGYT - SOCIlL INDICATORS DATA SKZET
EGPT                           REPEUNCI GROUPS (tCZHSZD AYVA
- HOST RECENS ZSTIISmS)
MIDDLE INCOM
MOST RECENT       N1TB APRCA *              INDDLI IUCC(
1960  A    1970 A ESTIMATE A         MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AHUICA & CARItD8AN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                66.0        69.0      72.0                 76.4                    99.7
MALE                80.0        84.0      87.0                 92.2                   101.0
FEMALE              52.0        53.0      56.0                 59.9                    99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                16.0        32.0      46.0                 33.3                    34.4
MALU                 23.0       44.0      57.0                 41.9                    33.5
FEMALE               9.0        21.0      34.0                 24.2                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. ( OF SECONDARY) 22.0        19.0      18.0                  9.8                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHRm RATIO
PRIMARY                          39.0        38.0      40.0                 39.2                    30.5
SECONDARY                        16.0        25.0      29.0                 25.1                    14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       26.0         ..      43.5                 39.7                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0         4.0       7.5                 15.3                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVElRS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                       58.0       132.0     137.0                139.0                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        1.9        16.0      17.0                 29.0                    84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  ..        22.0      21.0                 22.2                    63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0        2.0        ..                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FPRCE (THOUSANDS)    7481.4      9318.2   11124.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  7.3         7.2       8.0                  9.6                    22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            58.4        54.4      51.0                 47.0                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               12.2        18.8      26.0                 23.8                   23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              28.9        28.0      28.0                 26.1                    31.5
MALE                               53.2        51.5      51.3                 47.4                   4U.9
FEMALE                              4.2         4.1       4.3                  4.7                    14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.6         1.6       1.6                  1.9                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/e     17.4/e f  22.0/a
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44. 4e     42. 8/e    49.2/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/e      7.0/e.f  5.1/-
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5Le     18. fLs4  14. 8&.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    120.0                 262.5
RURAL                              ..          ..      86.0                140.4                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    163.0                 202.1                   474.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      72.0                122.2                   332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      21.0                 22.1
RURAL                              ..          ..      25.0                 33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic weans. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970 between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  1950-55; /d Registered, not all practing in the country; /e Rural expenditures; /f 1964-65; a National.
1974-75.
April, 1980



- 30-
DIII       OPl SOCIAL INDICATORS                                             Page    3           of   6
fttea-  Although the dat  ore drow  to.-  -r..c. ganeally jodsd rho -at oothoritetis aod -Ioleie  Ir ahoold also ho nord that th.y nay oot ha into-
nationaly C~orpa..le hoeaao  of the look of  otAuderdxed do.t ioitooo  n  concepts -aod hy diffacort orutrio  to rollootiog tho data,  The data or., coo-
tholoos, goefil to doocrihe ocier  of a              irsojdicoto trend., and charac.terisa ctain najor diffnroo.... horn...coct.-
The rf'aeform.gro  sor. (l) theso n e oafry poe; of rho eohJoor Country ad (2) a country group vith eomalht higher averag  toe. than rho c.-try trop
of the sehjoct cooatry (Ceoept E.  0tCfpnal lerpla. Oil Rportr.'0 Soop A.6.   "Sidle I-om  Narth Africa and Niddlo foot' is choo.  hecoe   of otroner
so1-ctolonrel offilutia).  In th. raeflorm   gro.p iota the evargoa am  pepelaton weightod orith.tir anaan  foe inch Ledi--ooorad ehs  only whao at
laser half of the cea~telee la a p0w" h"e data f or thot tedlcotoc. §lmne the coverogo of cooerrto aama rho todiont.ro dpopedo or oh. ovet"Lolity of
ots mi  Io ant malfoon, ooooiat moov he aeosadcl.   in celerirg owecge  of one Cdi.toto  to another.  Thee..               gee CS   ocr only ..eofal In co ort.S ths vol..
of-on  indicatrr at  ela tm  eg rho toantry sod roformno. groapo.
MEAM(thooai  puke.)                                                                    Pottonro  Yhveiciot -  Popcootlo  dlirdad bi c-ne  00 p-otit1in   pry-
Akffl - Toto1 sorface orso orrit    od ore  aed inlae  Nwstr.                                 eiaaqoelifid   -o #amdical e-hoo1 or                       1-cro 1yee.
Aaoicalorl - torltor  of oariooltrorl ar-  seed tanpocrly or penmoontly                  Paneloti  onre   "aob    ero  - Popalatto. div1ded hy toeho  of practiciog
fo   rp,poatroro, earht sad hirtha gardneo or to Ito follow; 1977 data,             alean  foal0 grodee noces pur            tca  oco,  -oo  aooiaton   ort      o
PanLoIoto  Vot Boaite1 bod -trtrl. orho  a                     - Pop.Itloioo  (total,
WP PER CAPITA 1069) - GNP pee Caplto eat-tao   at torrenat arhor pritos, ol-                  orha, end cora) dioidod by thoic coopo-tit   -abr of hospital hodr
nolatod hy  aam   orneooethod -a World  oak AtLaa (1976-78 heels); 1960,                      -viloblo In pohIll sod private gnarol ard epao.ltoed hoeptool endr-
9T0, sod 178 data                                                                           hbhilitstioI.r..catrco.  H-eprtojo ore oartblinhats poenseenItly staffed
hy et 1at on  phyairioa.  zorthli.ohmto prowidreg prinoipolly castdi.1
Eiswiy C     T=_IPU CAPTA I--ase  oe tion of coocial  -nscY (coal                              coea        t a  corloded I..oro   Magpicals, honwor  taclado heith atd mdirl1
ad  lignto. psrols.,natoos  moo sad hydra-, nool-a  and geotheonl eloc-              centers not penonsorly ocaffed by o physlicia  (hot hy a me~dical anelotat.
triciry) to hibosoms of coal eqoivaloat paf -apit.; 1960, 1970. and 1978                    oct00. N1dni a, etc.) whioh offor i-ptrant sc-oedotian  oad provide 
data.                                                                                       hajttd  -sog  of  Wodlol faoilitieo.  ror totoiertosl pupoeoa  hoopl- 
'on ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~                                                rs~~~tln iorlodo W100  priocipa1 S.anon  ad opaciolined hospitals, ad rotal
POPUL11,11M La.,   11 L                                                b..~~~~~~~~~~hopitals loa  or. total. hoopilrsi  ad aedicol ad  rNmot-y, cantor..
Ito)- A. of JolY 1; 1960, 1970, end 1978             A loit00orislad-Total e.tso  of aoain   to or diochargs
dsta.                                                                                     fro   hospta.  dtte   ythe tker of hede.
Irhn Pwaetim fsrantof otl~    OtIo of orha  to total Ppapletian;
differntdeflaitioe  of aha  er-a,ay affort oomp-boillty of dora                       HUSII
aRs ooottrio; 1960, 1970. ad 1978 deto.                                                 An.rane Sire of Sto.sohold (onreon  ono h-soeh1d) - totel. orhan. ad twoo-
?ost4siios2.rCoisofpllt-                                  . b..d I  1t0              A h.oarh1l  conetro  of a *ronp of Widiidoale who shors 1ivio  qooct.r.
totol popoletton by ago ad ns  and Coalr a-tolity and fortiuity rerse.                  the Chaoshor for.-. Attoio  poCdrp-onods.C-            -y-          -l          I
Projotion paranotece for aoroality ratee oompriss of thran level  OO ~                 Avesrne   feroocrco      os.ohn   drrl-Aosoo
tog life oajnotony ar birth iroCea1r  with  oooctry'o per oopita Ioans                  hrr of pareon  poet  c   in all -orh, and rCol ocop od oentional
leo. ad fenelolife eepoctoocy etobiloinig at 77.5 y-ac.  The par-                   dwollfas.  reopecirly.  Deellitr$  eac1odo orptoete .tr oreao.d
atocs for Isrtii ty rta oIec hove th... lovel  oeo.-fa  decIne; ie                      cccpo.oo oattt..
orttioyC _ocodtos to coca  lavo  od poor fanily ploanio  prfosco                     Aco.rs to Electricity booccot of doellipas) - totol. orha. ad roral -
tEach co_ory io than aoigned one of thsao tine  oobahietonsof eocol=ty                  C.ootanriol dollirga with electricity In 1tvitt qactrre an p-rcatrga
and fertility trads foC projection Po.."..                                              of torol. orhao, ad roral dnaliltocarsoctic-1y.
Otariaoo   raait- oaaeior pou pula.tion trhor  Is to growth circa
the hItch rota ia nqo1 to the doath rote, ad alra rho ago rtrortero-                CoUCTenoo
atoo Co...ract.  Thin in achieved only oft.r tactility roars  doclira to              Adltd toolotttive
rof  r   rlooesaot levelf  ait sac  reprndootianar coo. wh.  aoh eanroroc               Pc-so  rohoel -  otl aeet...oic                       total, ale   Id foals
ofn ba rpacnitoof tnal.I Chd otinyppuaIon chsa wee.t                             aero1lnot of  1  oSl age   t th1r-sy     1se  as p-tcattao  of rosptctivs
netinated O0 rho  ai   fcopoatdc sooito   ftepplto                                        priasry ochool -egn popolotiono; torna1y totlodos Childca  aged h-l
Io tho y-a  2000,-sd the rate ofjdoclino of fertility coca rerpts.ar   c   dotdfrdffrw   eoh   fptsyaooin  for
aor lorsI.                                                      cocoirlee with~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. covasa  ..actioo otrol11at say .....ed 100 parc...tt
Year statiotor prolotiot 1. ranched - The Yea  whe.  -ttion-y populari-c                     ai... 000 .ppila ar  %blot or aosroofca  ncoo  ag..
oiae has heen reached.                                                                  Se-cdr scol-rtot., nab  an  fal  - Compared as ahoo; ...oodory
Poosrionk.  Man idyoo                                                                         odocra-.kl t.    10  .tC.)o  .tiot reqc1irao at lw-a  SoCr ysers of epprorad prioary isocit
Paroo.ho.- td-yac   opoerin  ar  qooo ilontsr(10  hntars)cO           rovdoogoornl protital  o  toochobr traioio    otoci    for popik
totol no...Ial  of 12 to 17 years of tgn; .rorspood.oc .. o...rse eon ge-or11y
Por so  h.  !aioo         al ld - Compotd a- chc   for agri-alrral1d .oO.clodod.
P'...lsrtocAs Stotr    a n)- Children (0-14 yoara),  -krio5-oge (11-                         Vold   ehia,  octil   rote   rgoIochooooidr
6yer)adCeord  6  years ad ovool os poocstagoaof sid-yoar pop..-                     dorl  c  a  dporteat-        f.s.coodory icntrttotI_o
lotion; 196, 1970, ao   il   at.pol-reochor ratio - orisary. ad saoodory - Total stoderts onrcld ic
P. oltion Groth Note (onroent) -  total - Ao1o growh retee of total nid-                       ptoaary ad r-condry 1-vcl  divided hy nahere  of toachers- Ir rho
ysar1 poolci 1=    for 195060  190-0,ed 1970-718.                                             corspcnding I-ol..
Poooiontiroo   tar  (erantc)-ora- Aes-a  orcnh rot no of orhor popo-                      Ada1b  lit eraY roro (o-r...r) - Lt.ioror  nd.tl  (ahlo to rood sod -iot.)
lat ioa f 00 1950-60, 1960-70. ad 197G-70.                               paepr-atage of totol adolt pcpolatIIo aged 15 years ard avar.
Crodo Birth Bter  (oar hlC    ai- Aaooo  IL-v  hirth. par thooood of nld-yoar
popula.ior; 190. 1970, a   1978 data..                                                 OSM
CroSs Deat tate (onrtheteand)- Aoo1 doarhe pnr th-oaod of old-por                 Ptas*noR Cora (cer tonsod orlto)-Psegrcr   opisao
popolario; 1960,  Ott, ad 797  dane.crrsaoteshcnit .!C_                                                          paroooe; woroda ... h. lseora.  hep'arsee.
iros arodttin at    A-Aaao rtahor of daoshtera a soc  nill bse  It                       niteyvticin'e.Wo...ao..  ...  
her  oona  rrpodootre  ori C ifoRaprscepeen   j-pcfcfo                             adi ocenc  loor thoosac  popoeltior) - All typos of rsca.irars for  a
ntilty roa.o;  -sly fin-ya  avrago  adiog In 1960, 1970. ad 1977.                         hrodassto ceweral. pohlir partooc.fpplto;rtuo    oi
PoMNiFlo boit  - Accooo-s  A--'a (tooa              -hoo~al e.aor of sacaptore               renoad  rcc        occorrs  o  inhyore whof pogisteto   ofd. radio  o
ofbhtrh-coetrol dariow; -dno a-npi... of netionl faoily plaiog  _rgrn.                    on   it af.c.  data for .-riro dt yoaro  n   eat h  cog.ptrstl.ofsnc  edoet
Panily Ploatwo - Uoore (oorcot of acriad nno    Porcoar&ge of oarried                         -oaoIaroholahad.t  firet--og..C    y-     .o   .  l     -  
woe   of  hild-hoariag ago (15-4  yaaoo) who to ihrth-ootrrcl d-vicos to            IV  stavor (or ho pod or            tion   - TV rc-ivore for hroodcaot to
alerne aoe  in am  at g.o.P.                                                           aoro  pohli o pr th .osend ppolotion; ettladro or1icened TY reco.ivrar
PFO IOD ANeNTRITION                                                                            -rcotirs and In yearn whe. r-gitr-tia  of TVYot wo    to I ff-Ct.
(Sanoaos CictleIonIe thoead            4 r Lotl - Sho-  rho arer.ctroo
Indan of Pn Prdrin  s =           ifta (1969-,71-100) - Indro of per capita  -eoa           on  of- Idail'y gnea _Ritotre   eoae"   e eda      ei                    lph
Pr,dotiot of all faod r        iis   Pr_otiot  nclcdee reed end fosad ad                  lcotioe dortsd preaIy  toccodngt 1a wow.  It is  -osidored
is ot coledor year baaI.  CCa-ditioscverprimary, goods (a... sooca                         ch   daily" tf pr apersl at  lean  footisa.             eh
_anofs..sr) which ora ediblr adonat  tootoors. (..o. :off 0 oad                     Coei oa-    a Att,oIdo, o apbita too  Y,eer.-   s-d oo the oohb  of
tea oro seldod).  Asor-agt. prodotiot of ...oh .Coty is I ane  eni.=                                           
oat-oeal avaag  prodo...r price erIghtn; 1961-t, 1970, otd 197t data.                      tit-itosld d-iot      tey..ioldo    dirir   cdtv-tct
Por carita soolv of calories ieroaot of -eoiroaants) - Ctnpotod f ronrdnhieot
oorgyaqoov-lat of eet faod soppline evilabic In c--try par capita                  LABOR FORCE
por day . A-1ilehl  soppliA  cmpia  domestic prod-ctiot. imports leer                 Tcte1 LabhrvP..c. (thccoodo) - EcooetcL-1y  rri-o perrcoe, i-clodio
cportn,so   h.-gs..I tn r ko.  Nst  oqppIioe soldo  -iaoil food, eocdn.                 ernd forros eod oa     bicodht et.1oding hoonc,   t ra   tc.
qooi n   odIt. food proosasis  oad lose  It dietrihatieo.  Dooio-                lfiiti...ons iti .a..o ..c .triswsronr.Coneol;1h,17.n
ooe tre eatlated hy PiA  hosed an phyeiolgirsl ceada for _tornallati                   1975 darn.
ciy dhelith ConII  deringaotoar taloopsraCrC.I  hoSdy woihtr, 00                  waelecn)-Pna.lhrfrea   ocotg   ftt lhrfrr
sod ... diorbtihoio   of popolation, sod7a11wio  10 prc-to fcrworo                    Arcltr   becn)    ,.hr force  .o  pare..cg1, t Iretry  ota og cod -.
Icet.old , fvet;1961-5. 190, ar 1977dora                                             fiehina 00 yer-ettag   cf total lhor foc;160  1970 and 1970 dta
cerocyply, If food pa    Nsy    ot etpply of faod isdefitod ..b- B-00-l    P15t).L1:fr ahove.  Ic-
qireeate fcr all cP' re   selihdb  Yt  poiofrmmc                                         oaottity, ester and  ssoportnte                  f total leh- frrrc; 1960.
ollorace c  6  graaaof totl.   protlin  erday  enDA  11id fora   ciaoaa   c        1970 nod 1Olt Attn.
cf ohich If   pran           t hio  har daynoa 2 prcte of he aotoo  d-         Patticipatiot Reco (prorcet) - totsl. ls., and faeal  - Psrtiriprtion  -r
pcloc p                h         r_ h.d  .do- rotein,                   otc- .tjivtyrCcataar -oPctda   oa,ae    t   aa lhrfres
ards are 1oor tsa thoss of 75 SrCm   of total proroic and 23 tree  of                                   IC    . td-tt1     1,.,    -.Ib                         .
ecelrtit so sc  veage for Chs  -ocd, propose.d by FAl Io rho Third               p1;Orcne    of tcrl  eaeodtooppltio                     ip ofal tea roaocivt y
PonId PccdtSorvoy; 1961-65. 1970 and 1977 data.                                         190   97,ad  1975 dote.  Th.. or. IL0'   otrrtoraerooco
P.r csrlta oroten raorlv from oimsl ad oolaa -Protoic ecpply cof cdo-        0.satr_ctro9 'O ho pop.latiot.n.               oe  i    ro.       o   ei
'r  `icet,o  enieale ad1 pICse  Iatg~aepo  dey; 161-hI _        97       f od97  data.   Daw    re fr=nntiotl .t.rro...
Cild I8. IC-4 tto   dlr  pt1te (oa  Srhaadl p - dayoa d961 th5  per0 thoora7d i          cencDoee              tati   - Rtiori  cf ppolotico   ndor 15 ocd 65 acd cver
Chilq(..!! 1:) Mia" C  R. 2 Eth... W    - A...   d..h. pr Ch -   1.   to the total lahor tre
ego Sroap 1-4 yarn,to C hildren it thi.s ag  orop; for ant develcit.p         ccc
trioo date derived fro  lif. tahlss; 1960, 197i aod 1977 dor.t                        INCOME tISTRIBUJTION
tram                                                           t'erconraa cf Privato locono ~~~~~~~=.(h,,h I coah end hind) - tacrirod hy richrt
Litfe tEcoratr a.Yt Birth (oo'- Av'ace, cb,,hr of yearn of lifo re-itio                      of pac....  rihsh0  err,por1d0potn,so   ore A.orc
at; hirth; .I190, 1970 end 1978 da.                                                         c   oteole
Inot  _orrlitv not  (por thea..ad) - hAnt1 deatho If itfo.tt  ader  -o  y-cr   POVRTYn TARGT GtOUTPS
oCf og.Per th-oorod live hirths.                                                          Etiattatd Ahacloto Povrty Iocv- Level (U11$ coo trIt:j -orhaoadccrs.. I-
Ihe  of people (ttl   ro,a    oo)tihrooalace   cof.                                    ccrricolyreorede.p.    reots   o-fcod raqo1r-ota  to tI
catr nopply (loc1odna treated norfacaw-otorcr ont ...ted hot coosiore                       ffodeha.~lydq .d.   p  ....t.    .
osrer eth as that frco  protected boreholo,  pritgs., so  soot:' toytel)  n                tioatd Ralativo Pov-ry loon   Level (it)  Cor recita  - arhe  adrro -
percetagso   hi  eeecv    ooaIoe toa  orscre                         brhic                 O ralrotv- pcvorry I..oec 1ev1 to one-third of -eroe aper capit.
cotior  adpost loca.ted nor ar   than 2It aotom   fron a h-vtnyh                       osclice -t tIe lb. crry.  Ulrhoc leve  Io derivs  tro   phrtro
coto idorod so herog oithio reoaonahlo  Icoc f tht hots...1 nroro1 oroo
r-oooahleo r          Icod ieply that the hocortoc  noho.ro of rhc hocacthcd               .ee        ..t dcroc   c   ihrcor             iigi  cr1   ara..          !tfn
dvoc  hove to opada dispreportioo..te part of the day It fotrhiog the                  atorodrooloiotlo I_"ahetliote Poverty loces oya (Coret - orh
orall   - toole  of.. pepo(ca,ohc   odca)nre    yorr
dl:ispl  so, percenrogee of thair repertic. pcpcloricce.  EiCcrr  dit-                                                    VcoiodOcelIot D              ti
ycs  nay ioclod  tha  olsocoad diep..a.  ciccitot cotor,Vccoi  Aeyc  an  _rletio   srrec
vfh..a ...crrtoen-dnsoosel're.ure Yncr - r th.eoc                                                                                       April. 1980
cit pvi..dt nini1aC i.tote1laite



Populatlon   41 mIllion (rid-1979)                                                                          31 -
GNP Per Capita - US$460                                                                                     3R1                                                                         4 of 6
EGYPT - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amounte
,,1ilion US$                      ACTUAL ANNUAL GROWTH RATE (at constant 1975 pri es)
(at current prices)
1979                         1975       1976      1977       1978       1979       198UU/
NATI0NAL ACCOUNTS
Gro55 D-oestic Product/e                     17307.0                         8.4        11.3       6.1       9.0         U.S        7.0
Agricultore                                3844-O                         3.5        1.5      -2.9        5.6         3.9        2.5
Industry i Petrolueu                       5696.0                        19.4       20.0      10.1        9.2        8.4       10.4
Sertlcs                                   7264.0                         5.8       12.5       8.8       10.8        9.8        6.0
Con5umptl-o                                   14093.0                        0.4         3.1       6.3        4.5       14.0        9.3
Gros5 Invest-ert                              4988.0                        65.0        4.3      -2.2        28.0        1.3        8.0
Euports of GNFS                               5315.0                        19.4       23.4      10.9       -3.5       -5.2         9.3
twports of GNFS                               7809.0                        23.7       -3.9       3.2        4.2        7.1       I1.0
Gross N.tional SavIng                         3482.0                        76.3      102.0       0.2       20.7        4.9
PRI CES
GOP G.flator 6l                                                            100.0      105.4    109.]       924.0      104.7       121.5
E.change Rate                                                                2.15       1.97        .75       1.54       1.43       1.43
Share of GDP at garket Prices (%)                                                                       A--erau  Annual Increase (7) at corstan-t  riCe-
(at current erlces 1                                                                                     19o' Prfl!.es            197S Pr.jses
1960       1970       1975       1980                                                                           19 0-170             1970-197S   1975-1980
Gross Domestic Product
- AgrIcultr-                              27.9       25.3       28.0       21.3                                                                               4.7                5.9            2.1
-  Industry i Petrol .u                   23.7       26.1       25.4       34.7                                                                               3.0                2.6           11.4
-  Seroices                               42.9       40.8       42.8       39.5                                                                               6.3                4.4           9.7
Consumption                               87.3       90.6       90.4       88.8                                                                               4.4                8.0            7.4
Gross It"estment                          13.3       13.9       32.3       29.5                                                                               5.8                4.2            7.4
Etport of GNFS                            19.5       14.2       21.5       43.9                                                                               4.9               22.0           6.5
Import of GNFS                            20.1       18.8       44.1       62.1                                                                               1.1               13.5           5.0
Gro.s  National  Svinq                    12.9        7.7       90.9       17.3                                                                               7.2                7.2           23.3
As 4f GDP                                                                                                                    _
1960      9970   = 1975           980
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                      18.5       21.3       34.1       30.0
Current -op-ndit-re                                  21.5       22.0       39.9       34.9
Surplus (l) or deficit (-)                           -3.0       -0.7       -5.8       -4.9
Capital eop-nditure                                  11.8       11.1       16.6       29.5
Foreign fin nelng                                      -         0.0       16.0        9.2
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85         1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP grooth rat  (.)                                    4.5        5.0        8.6
GNP per capita grostth rate (Y                         1.9        2.7        6.3
Energy consueption growth rae  (Y)                    14.9(1)   14.9(1)   13.2(1)
ICOR                                                     -          -        3.6
Rmrgina  savings rate                                    -          -        0.46
Inport  I-sticltu                                      0.9        1.7        0.9
7a    At mairkt prices; co.pon-nts  -re  tpressed at iactor cost and oill not add due to -clusion of -t
indirect tanes and subsidies.
/b    Effecti-  rate computed aS  * igchted averae of the official and parallel market rates.
Lo    Estimat_s
(I)   Elootricity o-ly.                                                                                                                                              Juy 31, 1560



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Amount (million
US$ at current       Annual Growth Rates At Constant 1978 Prices
prices
1979          1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980 e/
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports           3835          17.4      7.1      3.0   - 1.1      0.4      6.0
-  Primary                  3245          12.0    25.4    17.1   - 2.4    12.4         9.0
-  Manufactures              590          24.5   -14.1   -20.9       2.2   -28.9    -5.1
Merchandise Imports           6919          22.5   - 3.5   - 4.6        5.8    10.9
-  Food                     1740          29.5    19.2   -29.8    22.4    15.1         9.8
-  Petroleum                 243         -34.4   -23.7   -53.1       2.8    16.8        -
-  Machinery and            2801          62.6    24.8    14.8       1.8    27.4    10.0
Equipment
-  Others                   2135          20.2   -26.2      6.1      1.2   - 7.8       4.9
PRICES
Export Price Index                          81.4    88.0    94.7   100.0   152.0   190.0
Import Price Index                          81.8    85.7    92.4   100.0   113.7   128.5
Terms of Trade Index                        99.5   102.7   102.5   100.0   133.7   147.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade    Average Annual Increase
(% at current prices)                at constant 1978 prices
1975               1980                  1975-1980
Exports                      100.0               100.0                       3.2
Primary                     53.3               88.0                       12.0
Manufactures                46.7                12.0                    - 6.4
Imports                      100.0               100.0                       4.5
Food                        23.6               26.2                        5.5
Petroleum                    6.9                4.2                    - 28.8
Machinery and               23.7                35.7                      29.8
Equipment
Others                      45.8                33.9                    -  4.2
July 31, 1980



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
1974     1975      1976      1977      1978    1979    1980 e!
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods and Non Factor Services                          2251      2503      3319      3949     4053    5315    6780
-  of which merchandise f.o.b.                                 1818      1875      2169      2404     2512    3835    sn80
Imports of Goods and Non Factor Services                         3959      5141      5182      5765     6492    7889    4600
-  of which merchandise c.i.f.                                 3618      4608      4659      4792     5434    6919    840o
Net Factor Income                                                  70       122       413       470      1008    1067      785
Current Account Balance                                         -1638    -2516    -145n    -1346    -1289   -1507   -2039
Private Direct Investment                                          87       225       444       477       439     710      000
MLT Loans (Net)                                                  1725      2985      1680      2660      2n78    142n    1625
- official                                                     1515      2881      1556     2580      1957    1125    13n0
- private                                                       210       104       124        80       121     295      320
Other Capital (Net)                                             -  97    - 752    - 628    -1600    -1113   - 586   - 490
Changes in Reserves                                                10        58      - 46     -141       - 63    - 37
International Reserves                                            355       296       342       533      596      633
- of which gold                                                 103       103       103      103       102      107
Reserves as Months Imports                                        1.1       0.7       0.8       1.1       1.1     1.0
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                                              2227      3612      2305      3349     2812    1985       2350
Offical Grants                                                 1303      1076       792      445       345
Concessional Loans                                              120      1444       668     1855      1600
-  DAC                                                           55       199      421       541       799
-  OPEC                                                           3      1142       171      137        03
-  IDA                                                           12        49        42       42        45
-  Others                                                        50        54        34     1n85       663
Non Concessional Loans                                          804      1092       845     1049       867
-  official export credits                                      379       639      214        24        44
-  IBRD                                                          -         14        36       37        57
-  Other multilateral                                            -          6        -       256        18
-  Private                                                      425       433      595       732       748
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                                   2810      4793      5724     8051      9879   11000
-  official                                                    1963      3852     4674      6761      8455    0450
-  private                                                      847       941     1050      129n      1424    1550
Undisbursed Debt                                                 1575      2370      2964     4434      4248    45n0
Debt Service
Total Service Payment                                             516       594       664     1095      1207    1370    1840
-  Interest                                                      7n       114       110      339       386      4nn      615
Debt Service Ratio  2/                                           21.0      21.4      16.8     23.5      22.0    20.2    22.6
Average Interest Rate on New Loans                                6.3       4.7       5.1       5.1      4.6      n.a.
Average Maturity of New Loans                                    17.2      18.5      23.3      18.7     27.9      n.a.
e/  Estimate
1/  Total amount of concessional and non-concessional loans is US$1875 million.   No further
breakdown is available.
2/  Total debt service payment/exports of goods and services excluding exports by foreign
oil companies.
3/  Includes service payment due on Arab loans
July 31, 1980



- 34.-                                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(September 30, 1980)
AmolIt in million US dollars
Loan/Credit       Approved                                                                   less cancellations
Numbers            FY          Borrower       Purpose                                Bank       IDA    Undisbur8ed
Ln  243-U.AR         60            SCA          Suez Canal Expansion                   56.5        --          --
Cr  181-UAR          70            UAR          Nile Delta Drainage                      --      26.0         1.8
Cr  284-UAR          72            ARE          Railways I                               --      30.0          --
Cr  393-UAR          73            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage                     --      36.0         2.7
Cr  412-UAR          73            ARE          Development Industrial Bank 1/           --      15.0          --
Cr  423-UAR          74            ARE          Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation            --      18.5         2.8
Cr  437-UAR          74            ARE          Population I                             --       5.0          --
Cr  484-CAR          74            ARE          Talkha Fertilizer                        --      20.0          --
Cr  524-EGT          75            ARE          Ag/Ind. Imports                          --      35.0         0.3
Ln 1062-EGT          75            ARE          Ag/Ind. Imports                        35.0        --         0.4
Ln 1064-EGT          75            SCA          Suez Canal Rehabilitation              50.0        --        17.1
Ln 1085-EGT          75            ARE          Tourah Cement                          40.0        --         2.7
Ln 1098-EGT          75            ER           Railways II                            37.0        --         8.2
Cr  548-EGT          75            ARE          Telecommunications I                     --      30.0         0.9
Cr  576-EGT          76            ARE          Development Industrial Bank II 1/        --      25.0         0.3
Ln 1239-EGT          76            APA          Alexandria Port                        45.0        --        28.5
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/    76             ARE          Fruit and Vegetable Dev.               50.0        --        34.9
Cr  637-EGT          76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                  --      40.0        19.2
Ln 1285-EGT          76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                10.0        --        10.0
Ln 1292-EGT          76            ARE          Textile Rehabilitation                 52.0        --        23.4
Ln 1369-EGT          77            AWA          Alexandria Water Supply                56.0        --        37.7
Cr  681-EGT          77            ARE          Education I                              --      25.0         4.5
Cr  719-EGT          77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                   --      27.0         9.1
Ln 1439-EGT          77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                 27.0        --        27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/    77             ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                 12.0        __        12.0
Ln 1453-EGT          77            EEA          Regional Electrification               48.0        --        20.9
Ln 1456-EGT          77            ARE          Industrial Imports                     70.0        --        29.6
Ln S-005-EGT         77            ARE          Iron Ore Beneficiation and Eng.         2.5        __         0.8
Ln 1482-EGT          78            SCA          Suez Canal Expansion                  100.0        --        33.3
Cr S-20-EGT          78            ARE          Water Supply Engineering                 --       2.0          --
Cr  774-EGT          78            ARE          Telecommunications II                    --      53.0        52.3
Ln 1533-EGT          78            DIB          Development Industrial Bank III        40.0        --        20.5
Cr  830-EGT          78            ARE          Agricultural Development                 --      32.0        30.0
Cr  831-EGT          78            ARE          Urban Development                        --      14.0        13.7
Cr  850-EGT          79            ARE          Population II                            --      25.0        23.8
Cr  868-EtT          79            ARE          Education II                             --      40.0        37.4
Ln  S-14-EGT         79            ARE          New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance            11.0        --          3.5
Cr  909-EGT          79            ARE          Tourism                                  --      32.5        32.4
Ln 1732-EGT          79            ARE          Gulf of Suez Gas                       75.0        --        61.6
Cr  935-EGT          79            ARE          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power         --      37.0        37.0
Ln 1733-EGT          79            EEA          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 4/102.0           --       102.0
CI  988-EGT          80            ARE          Agroindustries                           --      45.0        45.0
In 1804-EtT          80            DIB          Development Industrial Bank IV         50.0        --        50.0
Ln 1837-EGT          80            ARE          Textiles II                            69.0        --        69.0
Ln 1842-EGT          80            ARE          MIDB                                   30.0        --        30.0
Cr 1024-EGT          80            ARE          Cairo Gas Distribution                   --      50.0        50.0
Ln 1849-EGT          80            ARE          Pulp and Paper                         50.0        --        50.0
Ln 1886-EGT          80            EEA          Power III 3/                            7.0        --         7.0
Cr 1052-EGT          80            EEA          Power III 3/                             --    120.0        120.0
Cr 1069-EGT          81            ARE          Education TII3/                                  40.1        40.1
Totals                                                                               1125.0    o23.1        978.2
Of which has been repaid                                                               62.3        .4
Total now outstanding                                                                1062.7    822.7
Amount sold                                                   7.5
Of which has been repaid                                      7.4                       0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                       1062.6    783.2
l_/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria
2/ Third Window Loan
3/ Signed on November 7, 1980.
4/ Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of $35.0



-35                               ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
THE STATUS OF RAM GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEDMNT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(July 31, 1980)
(Amount in US$ million)
Year        Obliaer                  Type of business                          Loan        Equity        Total
1976        Arab Curasic Company   Ceramic Industry                            4.80         .835         5.635
1977        Nile Clothing Company  Ra-dy-Hade Garment Industry                 0.43        0.16          0.59
1978        Delta Sugar Company    Agricultural Production, mainly
sugar                                  20.0         3.00         23.0
1979        Iamailia Misr Poultry  Food and Food Processing                    5.97        1.52          7.49
Company
1979        Ismailia Fish Farming  Food and Food Processing                    1.93         .55          2.48
Company
1980        Suez Cement Company    Building Materials                         30.0           -          30.0
1980        Crocodile Tourist        Crocodile Tourist Project
Project Company                                                 4.41         .857         5.267
67.51       6.962        74.472



- 36 -                             ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effectiveness Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The only outstanding activity on this project is installation of
field drainage, which remains to be accomplished on about 5 percent of the
project area of 950,000 feddans. This work has been delayed, in part,
because of a shortage of cement. Work is complete on other major
components including some 1,700 km surface drains and eleven pumping
stations.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Erfectiveness Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: July 31,
1981.
Work is virtually completed on some 1,640 km surface drains in
300,000 feddan project area. Of the four pumping stations, two are
complete and progress is being made on the other two. Installation of tile
drains is about two-thirds complete. Progress on this activity has been
slow because of inadequate management by contractors and recently the
shortage of cement. Bilharzia Control Program is proceeding as scheduled.
Progress on procurement is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effectiveness Date; February 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project is estimated to be completed in 1982. Previous
substantial delays, primarily due to lack of adequate local funds, have
been overcome.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
ProJect; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $0.3 million and $0.4 million remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively. Any uncommitted funds will be cancelled by the
closing date.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-37-                            ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date; April 21, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project execution is generally satisfactory although some items
are lagging behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for most items in the
project have been awarded-and the cost of Bank-Financed items is expected
to exceed appraisal estimates slightly.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effectiveness Date; June 9, 1975; Closing Date; December
31, 1982
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items
are already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has further
delayed project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is
expected to be only towards early 1981.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2,
1975; Effectiveness Date; August 20, 1975; Closing Date; June 30, 1981
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of
locomotives and rolling stock. The track renewal and repair program is
also behind schedule. Efforts are now being made to improve rolling stock
maintenance with the help of consultants and ER plans to set up separate
companies with overseas technical assistance to upgrade track conditions.
The 1980-84 draft investment program contains many large investments
including new lines for which no economic justification has been
demonstrated. The financial situation is poor and a deficit of LE 38
million was recorded for 1979. After many years without tariff increases,
substantial increases in freight tariffs were made in 1979, and passenger
fare increases are promised for 1980. A draft decree which would establish
a National Railway authority and aims to give the railways inter alia
considerably more autonomy in relation to tariffs and staff salaries is
under discussion.
Cr. No. 548-ECT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May
16, 1975; Effectiveness Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Procurement has now been completed and the IDA credit has been
fully committed. Procurement of the telex exchanges was transferred to the
Telecommunications II project. Physical installations have been about two
years behind the appraisal schedule mainly because of initial delays in
procurement and in building construction.



-38 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: February 19, 1976; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
The credit is now fully committed and $24.5 million has been
disbursed as of October 31, 1980.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress on the execution of the main civil works and dredging
contract is proceeding reasonably well although other civil works are
behind schedule. Procurement of most equipment is progressing
satisfactorily although the evaluation of bids for radar equipment is
behind schedule. Estimated final cost remains within appraisal estimates.
Because of the delayed start of the main civil works, the project is now
expected to be completed only by June 1982; the closing date of the loan
will, therefore, have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is now over two years behind schedule but is making
progress. Work on the drainage and irrigation components of the project is
proceeding and a large contract has recently been awarded. The seed
component has major problems, which the Bank has been discussing with
Egyptian officials to agree on revised modes of management. The
Agricultural Development Lending Unit in Bank Misr is attempting, with
assistance from the World Bank, to ensure that the various sub-borrowers
proceed with their respective investments, and to identify additional
sub-borrowers. The project scope has been expanded to allow financing of
agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing liberalized.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976.
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date; June 30, 1983
Work is progressing in accordance with the revised schedule on
some 1,602 km of surface drains in 500,000 feddans. Overall progress is
about 55 percent. As compared to appraisal target of 240,000 feddans,
field drainage is complete on only about 24,000 feddans. This shortfall
has resulted from a delay of almost two years with supply and erection of
USAID financed equipment for three PVC pipe-making factories. Two of these
factories are now in production and the third is almost ready; this should
accelerate the installation of tile drains. Contracts for these drains
have already been awarded covering the entire project area.



- 39 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976. Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a recent fire on the construction site of
one of the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost
about US$20 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised,
due to increased scope of civil works and increase in cost of construction
materials beyond what was expected at appraisal. No difficulties are
foreseen in financing this, although some government equity contribution
would be required in the next two years to supplement the companies'
internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial covenants as
well as project costs. Early management problems have now been overcome
and both companies have developed effective project implementation units.
Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting initial delays in
procurement. However, about 90 percent of the contracts for machinery and
equipment have now been awarded and the balance is expected to be awarded
in the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Bidding for all equipment has been completed and orders placed.
Management studies were completed in the Authority and AWA is implementing
some of the recommendations. AWA has called for bid proposals for new data
processing equipment. The award has been made for the civil works
construction of the Bank financed water treatment plant extensions and work
is expected to start shortly. Local bidding for 65 km pipeline contracts
have been completed and awards made to four contractors; these contracts
are now being financed with local funds. Satisfactory progress is being
made on meter replacement and reduction of waste and AWA's regularly
submitted reports reflect good general progress. An application for a
general tariff increase is with the Governor for consideration by the
Alexandria Local Council but approval is still pending.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation, since the transfer of two MOHE institutes
to Credit 868, is proceeding satisfactorily. Virtually all technical
assistance has been completed. About 90 percent of all equipment has been
procured and nearly all has been installed. Of the 23 institutions to be
constructed 17 are completed and are operational, and the remainder will be
operational by December 1980. All of the existing institutions being
re-equipped are operational. About 82 percent of Credit amount has been
disbursed and nearly all of the remainder has been committed.



- 40 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. i439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440-EGT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date; April 17,
1978; Closing Date; December 31, 1983
Progress on surface drains is satisfactory with completion
achieved on some 264,000 feddans out of a total area of 815,000 feddans.
For construction of four new and renovation of two existing pumping
stations, the contractors have started civil works and procurement of
equipment following award of contracts in December 1979. The Bank has
cleared the award of four contracts for installation of field drainage
covering 75 percent of the project area of 400,000 feddans. The
establishment of a KfW financed PVC pipe making factory has been delayed
and this could further delay the project.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT -Regional Electrification Project; US$48 million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date; February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
Physical progress is good. A six month delay in completion of
construction is expected, however. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. Consultants for the
distribution companies are in place. All contracts for equipment,
materials and technical assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project;US$70 million Loan of July
15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date; June 30, 1982
As of September 30, 1980, about $40.0 million has been disbursed
and about $50.7 million committed, representing some 55 percent of the
total loan. Utilization of the loan proceeds has been slow mainly because
of delays in procurement of equipment for public sector firms.
Ln. No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5
million Loan of July 15, 1977. Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1978;
Closing Date; December 31, 1981
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies. The closing date was
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a
rehabilitation and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as procurement of tugs there has
been some delay because of delayed decisions on design which have now been
taken. The financial situation of the borrower is sound, total canal
traffic continues at levels close to appraisal forecasts and revenue is
higher than appraisal estimates.



- 41 -                         ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Ln. No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40 million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As
of October 31, 1980, $19.5 million had been disbursed and the loan had been
fully committed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date; September 19, 1978; Closing Date;
December 31, 1981
Bid documents for a substantial part of the equipment and
materials to be financed under the Credit have been processed.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date; February 20, 1979; Closing Date;
December 31, 1983
Implementation is about a year behind appraisal schedule.
Satisfactory progress has now been made in the procurement of tractors,
project-related training, monitoring and evaluation, and field preparation
for implementation.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date; April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
There has been significant progress in the staffing of the project
unit. Implementation of the shelter components is, however, seriously
behind schedule, partly due to lack of understanding regarding the project
and partly due to lack of local design capability. IDA supervision
missions are being intensified to help improve progress.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. All sites have been selected and
construction on over 50 (of 153 sites) is underway. Implementation of the
training program has started, while IEC implementation has had a slow
start-up, and about 40% of the home visiting program has been implemented.
Cr. No. 868-ECT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date; July 18, 1979; Closing Date; March
31, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding very well. Of the 23
institutions to be constructed, two are completed, eight will be completed
by mid-1981, 10 will be completed in late 1981 and the three MOHE



- 42 -                       ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
institutes are expected to be completed on schedule by late 1983. All
equipment is under procurement with contracts already signed for about 50
percent. All technical assistance has been contracted and implementation
is about 9 months ahead of schedule.
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement and delivery of mining equipment is underway and
erection has started at mine site; laboratory texts of phosphate rock are
being carried out.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date; March 26, 1980; Closing Date; December 31, 1985
Project implementation has started.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June_29,
1979; Effectiveness Date; January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Project implementation is in progress. The onshore contract has
been signed and the contractor has started work in the field.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-EGT - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date; June 30, 1986
Bidding documents for electro-mechanical equipment are under
preparation and likely to be issued by late 1980.
Cr. No. 988-EGT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date; (Not yet effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1985
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 1804-ECT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date: August 8, 1980; Closing
Date; December 31, 1984
Commitments under the loan which have just begun had reached about
$9.0 million as of September 1980; no disbursements have yet taken place.
Ln. No. 1837-EGT - Textile II Project; US$69 million Loan of June 4, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Effectiveness action underway.



- 43 -                        ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1984
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Effectiveness action underway. Contractor has mobilized. Fifteen
km out of the 55 km high pressure pipeline has been laid.
Cr. No. 1069-EGT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
million equivalent) Credit of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (not
yet effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 1886-EGT, US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052-EGT, US$120 million - Third
Power Project of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date: (not yet effective);
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



- 44 -                ~~~~ANNEX III
- 44 -Il
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WESTERN DESERT
ENERGY BALANCE 1978
(thousand tons oil equivalent)
Production                                       Consumption
Crude   /                                          2/
Crude Oil1'                  24,400              Coal:-                        850
Hydroelectricity              2,860              Refinery Losses               580
Natural Gas                     670              Petroleum Products         10,100
Hydroelectricity 3/        2,860
Total Availability      27,930              Natural Gas  4/               670
Total Domestic
Consumption           15,060
Exports (Net of Imports) 5/
Coal                        (850)
Crude Oil  6/             12,260
Petroleum Products         1,460
12,870
1/     Consisting of Egypt's share of production of 17.1 million tons and
foreign partners share of 7.3 million tons.
2/     Estimated.  Used largely to meet metallurgical requirements.
3/     Conversion factor 1000 kWh = 0.286 tons of oil (assuming 30% efficiency).
4/     55,000 tons of gas purchased from partners.
5/     Includes stock change.
6/     Consists of 5.06 million tons (net) of exports by Egypt and 7.20 million
tons of exports by foreign partners.



- 45 -
ANNEX IV
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WESTERN DESERT EXPLORATION PROJECT
Petroleum Product Prices
(US$/ton)
Product                    Domestic Prices            World Prices 1/
(FOB Italy)
August 11, 1980
LPG 1/                          75                         260
Premium Gasoline               261                         296
Regular Gasoline               220                         286
Kerosene                        56                         325
Gas Oil                         52                         261
Diesel Oil                      44                         261
Fuel Oil                        11                         160
Natural Gas:  Over 90% is sold at $0.28/Mcf which is at par, in terms of
BTU, with the domestic fuel oil price. A small percentage will be sold
to domestic consumers under the Cairo Gas Distribution Project at $4.3/Mcf,
which is marginally above the gas current opportunity cost as a fuel oil
replacement (about 4.0/Mcf).
1/   Essentially the same as the Egyptian border price with the exception
of LPG for which recent border price is over $400/ton due to substantial
transport cost.



- 46 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 6
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WESTERN DESERT EXPLORATION PROJECT
Petroleum Geology of the Abu Gharadig Area
Introduction
1.        The Abu Gharadig block is located in the Western Desert of Egypt,
175 miles west of Cairo and 100 miles south of the Mediterranean coast. It
covers an area of some 800 square miles around the Abu Gharadig oilfield
concession (See Map IBRD No. 15212). The field was discovered in 1969 and
is now producing around 8,000 barrels of oil per day. The surrounding area
has been partially explored by two oil companies, GUPCO and Braspetro, and
there are four abandoned exploratory wells on the block itself, together
with nine more close to its boundaries, in addition to nineteen wells in the
Abu Gharadig field. The geology of the block is comparatively well known,
and the area is more or less covered by seismic surveys. Further exploration
work therefore consists mainly of detailed seismic work, infill lines on
structures which have already been discovered, and exploratory wells.
Stratigraphy
2.        The sedimentary section in the area is largely in excess of 15,000
feet thick; the deepest well in the area was the WD5-1 which is located just
off the north-west corner of the block and reached a total depth of 14,469
feet (4,410.2 meters) at which point it was in rocks of Lower Cretaceous age.
The sedimentary section found in wells drilled in the study area ranges from
pre-Jurassic to Recent and the following major stratigraphic units are
recognised:
- Recent: thin cover
- Mogra: Oligocene - Lower Miocene
- Daba: Upper Eocene - Oligocene
- Apollonia: Palaeocene - Middle Eocene
-  -----------Unconformity--------------
- Khoman: Santonian - Maastrichtian
-  --------Major Unconformity-----------
- Abu Roash: Cenomanian - Turonian
- Bahariya: Aptian - Cenomanian
- Burg el Arab: Aptian - Cenomanian
- Jurassic
- Pre-Jurassic
3.        The Abu Roash formation is subdivided into seven zones designated
by the letters A through G, the latter being the lowest, and together with
the underlying Bahariya formation, forms the most interesting exploration
objective in the study area. The Abu Roash formation consists mainly of



- 47 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 6
a sequence of shallow marine limestones and shales, with occasional sandy
zones. The sandy zones occur in the C, E and G subunits and in all of the
wells so far drilled oil and gas production is related to these sandy zones.
The Bahariya is a sequence of shallow marine sands interbedded with shales and
siltstones, and forms the main gas producing reservoir at Abu Gharadig field.
4.        Most of the wells have been drilled through the Bahariya section
in the underlying formations without finding significant hydrocarbon
indications. The Burg el Arab is mainly composed of sandstones and shales,
with a tight dolomite sequence, known as the Alamein Member, which forms
a good seismic reflecting horizon in the southern part of the area. Only
three of the wells, Agnes-l, Misawag-l and S.W. Mubarak, all located in
the southern part of the area, have penetrated the pre-Cretaceous section.
These found continental varicoloured shales, siltstones and sandstones of
the Jurassic Eghei Group below the Cretaceous. While the sands appear to
be good potential reservoirs, no hydrocarbon shows were reported from them,
and the shales do not appear to be potential source rocks.
5.        Regional dip is northwards towards the coast and most lithologic
units thicken in this direction. A generalized stratigraphic section is
given in Table 1, which shows that the sequence is an alternation of lime-
stone, sandstone and shale. In general, the sandstones form the most
prospective petroleum reservoirs. As a result of the considerable variations
in formation thickness, which result from erosional unconformities or discon-
tinuities in sedimentation, the depth to main prospective oil and gas reservoir
varies widely across the area. From a purely stratigraphic point of view the
optimum area for drilling would appear to be immediately south of the GUPCO
Abu Gharadig concession block where several structures are proposed for
drilling and on either side of it where a complementary seismic program is
proposed. The southern third of the block seems the least prospective from
the stratigraphic point of view.
6.        As the analysis of the geological, geophysical, and engineering
data provided indicates that the Abu Roash and Bahariya are of most
immediate prospective interest, further geological study is recommended
on those formations: firstly, sedimentation studies of the Abu Roash and
Bahariya formations to determine depositional trends and lateral continuity
of the reservoirs; secondly, geochemical studies of shales and limestones
designed to identify potential hydrocarbon source rocks. Wells drilled under
the Bank-financed program should core potential reservoir and source-rock
horizons to obtain the basic material for these studies. A complete testing
program should also provide informations on the fluid contents and pressure
(hydrocarbons and formation waters).
Structure
7.        The regional geological structure is that of a gentle monoclinal
dip northwards towards the Mediterranean. In the northern part of the block
the dip steepens appreciably, forming a "hinge-line" on which the Abu Gharadig



- 48 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 6
field appears to be located. The area is broken by numerous faults with
throws varying from tens of feet to as much as 2,000 feet. Most of the
faults trerd approximately east-west with a swing to north-east south-west
in the eastern part of the block and to north-west south-east in the western
portion. The overall effect is to give a shallow arcuate fault pattern
concave to the basin.  The predominant direction of fault throw is down to the
north, i.e., towards the basin. There are a number of minor faults which are
downthrown to the south, and the southern boundary of the Abu Gharadig field
appears to be formed by such a fault.  The seismic interpretation produced by
the consultants to EGPC, Robertson Research, shows twenty-five structural
closures bounded by faults in most cases, some of which are downthrown to
the north, and a few downthrown to the south.
Oil and Gas Indications
8.        The Abu Gharadig field was discovered in 1969 and has so far
produced around 18 million barrels of light crude oil of 36 API gravity,
together with associated gas. The field is producing essentially from
three blocks separated by a complicated fault pattern. Oil is produced
from Abu Roash C, D and E from sand lenses interbedded with shales and
acting as independent stratigraphic traps. Gas has been produced from
Bahariya sands in blocks A and B at a rate of 30/40 MMcfd (and 3,000 bbl/day
condensate) from four wells. This rate should be increased in 1981 to
125 Mmcfd with the drilling of two more wells, reperforation of producing
wells and completion of processing and transportation facilities. The wells
on block C have been tested as possible gas producers, but are presently
producing only oil. Recoverable gas reserves are estimated at 0.5/0.6 tcf.
The production is obtained by depletion, without noticeable water drive.
The three blocks show the same gas/water contact but different reservoir
pressures which prove that the faults are sealing. The well Abu Gharadig 2,
drilled to the south-west of this field on a separate fault closure tested
non-commercial gas from Abu Roash G and Bahariya.
9.        Of the 13 non-producing wells drilled on or near the project block,
and outside the field itself, 8 tested oil or gas, or both, but in quantities
which at the time of discovery were regarded as non-commercial. These are
indications that some of these accumulations were in the thinner sands and
may have been due to pinch-out of the sands as well as to structural causes,
and that the structural closure is small. These factors and the fact that
the most promising formations appeared as gas prone must have persuaded the
companies to relinquish their concessions. However, the new seismic map as
produced by the consultant shows structures of reasonable size and closure.
The possibility of making discoveries of oil and/or gas in the area seems
to be fairly good.



- 49 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 6
Risk-Analysis of the Prospects
10.       The gas actually present in the project area in the Abu Roash
G  and Bahariya zones can vary between two extremes, from an insignificant
small amount if both these reservoirs are dry (or absent) in all the 25
seismically mapped structures, to a quantifiable maximum if the following
conditions are fulfilled: (i) that gas has been sourced throughout the area
and has migrated to the two reservoirs; (ii) that the structures are gas
filled; (iii) that the structures are as mapped; (iv) that the reservoirs
have fair characteristics of porosity, saturation, etc. throughout the area;
and (v) that in fault-closed structures, the faults are sealing.
11.       A statistical study of the project area was conducted by Robertson
Research International to estimate the likely values of gas-in-place and the
chances of discovering such gas in each of the 25 seismically mapped closures,
and to rank the eight best identified structures in a preferred order of
drilling. The study is based on a two-step analysis which consists of:
(a) in a first step, establishing, on the assumption that the
structures are present as mapped and are filled to their
spill-points, a probability distribution (with mean u and
standard deviation s) for gas-in-place in each prospect
on the basis of a range of probable values of net pay and
other rock and fluid properties; and
(b) in a second step, estimating for each prospect a reliability
factor RI which reflects the probability that a gas pool
will be present, on the basis of the estimated confidence
rating that the structure as mapped will indeed be present
and that it will be hydrocarbon bearing.
The estimates obtained from each step are then combined to give for every
prospect (i) a risk-weighted mean value of gas-in-place & equal to the
product of RI X u; and (ii) a rank equal to RI x u /s.
12.       If all 25 closures are gas filled, the total mean value of gas-
in-place as given by this study, would be of the order of 28 tcf. For the
eight drillable structures, the mean value of gas-in-place, if all are present
and are gas filled, would be 27 tcf. Adjusting the latter result by the
estimated indices of reliability gives a total risk-weighted mean value of
gas-in-place in the eight structures of 5.7 tcf. If an average recovery
factor of 64 percent is applied, the risk-weighted mean value of recoverable
reserves would be 3.7 tef. The results for each of the eight structures
together with their ranking in a suggested order of priority for drilling
is given below. These results do not take account of the possibility that
gas is present in reservoirs other than the Abu Roash  G  and Bahariya, nor
of the possibility that oil can be present in the reservoirs.



- 50 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 6
Rank 1/        Prospect            u 2/         u 3/
1             X 4/              1.27          0.697
2              H                6.52          1.467
3              L                8.36          1.881
4              T                1.62          0.243
5              P                3.04          0.565
6              A                1.59          0.281
7             w                 2.83          0.212
8              G                1.82          0.344
27.05          5.690
1/   Rank in order of priority for drilling.
2/   Mean value of gas-in-place if prospect is gas filled.
3/   Risk-weighted mean value of gas-in-place.
4/   Prospect X has been overestimated because of a mis-
location of the well, Abu Sennan I, drilled by Amoco.
However, it is kept as No. 1 because of the proven
presence of gas in Abu Sennan.
13.       It must be stressed that the above results are of necessity
based on the current interpretation of the geology of the project area
(as presented in the first part of this annex) and on a largely subjective
assessment of certainty and risk. For this reason, the project provides
for a review of parameters and of the order of drilling after each well
and for an overall review of the geology and of drilling strategy after
completion of the first four wells.



- 51 -
Table                                      ANNEX V
Generalized StratiRraphic section in the Abu Gharadig Area
Western Desert, Egypt                          Page 6 of 6
Geological          Formation          Thickness          Lithology          Petroleum
Age                Name              (Feet)                             Indications
Recent                   -               Thin
Lower Miocene      Mor                                 Sandstone, grey  --
Oligocen              gra                              shale, limestone
Oligoceme          Daba                                Shale, light           Potential source
Upper Eocene                                           grey & green           rock.
S                    Middle Eocene      Apollonia                           Limestone, fine-       Oil stain reported.
Paleocene           P                                  grain light colored, Poor reservoir rock.
with some shale
Unconformity
Upper Cretaceous  Khoman A                             Chalk
(Santonian-   )
(Maestrichtian)   Khoman B                            Limestone and          Shale is potencial
shale                 source rock.
Erosional Unconformity
Upper Cretaceous  Abu Roash A        0-1000            Limestone & shale,   One reported gas
(Cenomanian-)                             i---         rare sandstone        show.
(Turonican )
Abu Roash 8       0- 700           Fine grained lime-   None.  Poor reser-
stone with some       voir and source
shale                 rock.
Abu Roash C       0- 300           Shale, siltstone,    Sands ptoduce oil in
sandstone, some       Abu Gharadig field,
limestone             gas in Abu Sennan-l
well.
Abu Roash D       0- 500           Limestone & shale    Poor reservoir and
source rock. Oil
show in hWD5-l well.
Upper Cretaceous  Abu Roash E         200-800          Limestone,shale        Sands otl-bearing in
(Turonian)                                             siltstone, sand-      Abu Gharadig field.
stone
Abu Roash F       200-400          Dark shaly lime-       Good source rock.
stone & shales        Some limestone has
reservoir properties.
Reported show in
BRE-23-1 well.
Abu Roash G       300-1000         Dark shale with        Total gas at 15 mil.
white sandstone &    cubic ft. per day in
some limestone        BRE-23-2 well. Gas
shows in other wella.
Upper Cretaceous  Bahariya            0-1800           Interbedded sand-    Moderatclv good re-
(Iptian-Cenomanian)                                    stone, siltstone,    servoir sands.
shale w/occasional   Principal gas re-
thin coal beds        servoir in Abu
Gharadig field.
Upper Cretaceous  Burg-el-Arab                         Sandstones & shales.
(Aptian-                                              Contains Alamein
Cenouanian)                                          Carbonate series near
the base which is a
seismic reflecting
horizon.
Lower Cretaceous Betty
(Hauterivian-
Aptian)
Jurassic           Eghei                               Varicolored sands
shales, siltstones



- 52 -
ANNEX VI
Page i of 5
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WESTERN DESERT EXPLORATION PROJECT
Natural Gas Powered Motor Vehicles
Historical Development
1.        The early development of the internal combustion engine was based
largely on gaseous fuels. Beginning around 1800 coal gas, originally produced
for lighting, began to be used in engines. During the first three-quarters of
the 19th century, a series of major advances in gas engine design were made,
culminating in Nicolaus Otto's invention of the four cycle Deutz "A" engine of
1877. Liquid fuels, developed at about the same time, however, proved to be
easier to distribute and store and to have a higher energy content. Wide-
spread acceptance of gasoline and diesel fueled engines for the infant auto-
mobile industry soon followed.
2.        From the turn of the century to 1950, gas fueled engine technology
found application primarily in the stationary engine market. The popularity
of gas for water pumping, power generation, and other industrial uses was due
to its low cost, clean burning characteristics, and increased engine life.
Only in recent years, spurred initially by air quality concerns and shortly
thereafter by energy supply concerns, have gas fueled vehicles appeared on a
commercial basis. An estimated 400,000 automobiles were operating on various
gas fuels worldwide in 1978, and the numbers have been growing ever since.
This fact has remained obscure to the general public, as the utilization to
date, except for Italy and France, has largely been limited to private commer-
cial fleets, and more recently a few municipal fleets.
Status of Technology
3.        CNG and Gasoline Engines.  Virtually all of the gaseous fuel used to
power transportation is in gasoline engines which have been retrofitted with
dual-fuel apparatus allowing them to burn either gasoline or gas. Compressed
Natural Gas (CNG) has been used extensively as an automotive fuel in Italy
since the late 1930s. Currently nearly 250,000 vehicles, mainly private, are
running on CNG in the central and nothern part of the country. A small number
of other countries are using CNG as an automotive fuel, although on a far more
limited scale. In France there are about 20,000 vehicles operating on CNG and
in U.S.A. more than 200 million miles have been logged by CNG powered vehicles
(owned largely by fleet operators) over the last ten years. Conversion to
natural gas occurred where (a) natural gas was abundant and relatively cheap
in relation to other fuels; (b) an extensive distribution network existed; and
(c) prices of gasoline on account of taxes etc. were high enough to justify
expenditures on conversion. However, in the U.S.A. conversion was motivated
either by a concern over the pollution levels or because captive gas was
available to some companies. In either case, conversion to CNG took place in



- 53 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 5
a sporadic fashion and was a result of individual initiative. However, with
sharply rising prices of gasoline and consequent higher import burden, CNG
becomes an attractive alternative for countries which are well endowed in
natural gas. New Zealand which has a large natural gas resource, but has to
import liquid hydrocarbons, is sponsoring conversion of about 200,000 motor
vehicles over the next few years.
4.        Adapting a gasoline powered motor vehicle to a dual-fuel powered
vehicle using natural gas as the alternate fuel is relatively simple. No
internal changes to the engine, its cooling, lubrication or ignition system
are necessary. The conversion kit consists of a two-stage pressure reducing
assembly, an air-gas carburation unit, solenoid valves for the CNG and gasol-
ine supply lines, and high pressure tubing and fittings. The CNG is stored
in cylinders, normally two or three, located usually in the trunk of the
automobile or in the case of vans and trucks on the bed of the vehicle. A
safety requirement is that the passenger space of the vehicle must be her-
metically sealed off from the cylinders if they are located in an enclosed
portion of the vehicle such as the trunk. Furthermore, the cylinder space
must be vented to the atmosphere. The pressure regulating assembly is nor-
mally jacketed to allow the circulation of hot water from the radiator in
order to prevent freeze-up. A selector switch, generally mounted on the
dashboard, allows the drive to select the desired fuel by actuating the
solenoid valves in the supply lines to the appropriate off-on position. There
are five known manufacturers of CNG conversion systems in Italy supplying not
only the Italian but a substantial export market. In the USA there is one
manufacturer engaged in this work on a fairly active scale. Italy is also
the leading supplier of CNG cylinders. There are five manufacturers, each
using its own process, to fabricate seamless cylinders from mild alloy steel
(chrome-moly or nickel-chrome-moly) billets or tubing. The cylinders are
designed for an operating pressure of 200 atmospheres and are hydrostatically
tested at 300 atmospheres. Cost of conversion kit varies between $125 to $150
and a pair of cylinders $300. Including labour, the cost of conversion per
vehicle would be of the order of $550.
5.        CNG and Diesel Engine.  A considerable amount of development work
has been carried out by several groups in Italy on the conversion of diesel
engines to CNG. The basic approach has been to retain the diesel cycle,
inject diesel fuel by the usual direct injection pump in limited quantities
and aspirate CNG in the induction manifold. No sparking device is added to
the engine, and diesel oil acts as a pilot fuel and sparks the CNG. In such
conversions, proportion of CNG can vary from 0 to 75% without affecting the
performance of the vehicle. The impetus for this work came from the desire
to reduce pollution, but the price differential between diesel fuel and CNG
was too small to make conversion attractive. Some research and development
has also been carried out in the U.S.A. A bus has been converted, and suc-
cessfully operated over a long period, to run on 100% CNG by altering the
engine to spark ignition. Work has also been done on converting diesel
engines to dual-fuel systems with up to 90% CNG and 10% diesel. From the
development works carried out so far, it would appear that conversion of



- 54 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 5
diesel vehicles to dual-fuel (diesel and CNG) is technically feasible.
However, range would be an inhibiting factor limiting its use essentially to
urban transport.
6.        Fueling Stations.  Refueling is one area in which gas burning cars
differ markedly from gasoline fueled vehicles.  For compressing gas to 200
atmosphere pressure special equipment is required to recharge the vehicle.
A typical compression station comprises electric or gas engine driven com-
pressors, storage cylinder to provide surge capacity, and flow and pressure
measuring and recording facilities. For vehicle refueling there are normally
at least five bays, each equipped with a hose which is coupled to the vehicles
filling connection. Two options are available on refueling stations: locating
the stations so that natural gas be compressed directly from a pipeline or
supplying a station with mobile tanks or cylinders which are refilled at a
mother compression station on a pipeline. Usually it is a combination of the
two; with a mother compression station operating off a high pressure transmis-
sion pipeline and feeding 5 to 20 satellite stations therefrom. One of the
most critical factors in selecting the site of a compression station is the
pressure in the natural gas supply pipeline. The capital cost of compression
can vary by a factor of six between operating at an inlet pressure of 20
atmospheres compared to one atmosphere. Operating costs, especially compres-
sion energy, are also significantly affected. The mother - satellite combin-
ation permits the use of high pressure, if available, in the transmission
pipeline. On account of these considerations, cost of compression can vary
widely. On the basis of preliminary computation, cost of compression in Egypt
would not be in excess of US$0.05/litre.
7.        Economy and Performance.  Improvements in engine efficiency of 5 to
40 percent have been observed in vehicles operating on CNG, with a figure of
14 percent for an average. In a gasoline engine a portion of the total amount
of fuel consumed by the vehicle is required to operate a device known as an
accelerator pump; a gas powered vehicle does not use such a pump, resulting
in an immediate saving in fuel. In addition, gaseous fuels mix readily and
completely with air and do not later separate or condense out; methane in
particular can burn over a wide range of air-fuel ratios. The result is
more complete combustion with increased energy efficiency and reduced pollu-
tion. The degree of improvement in efficiency depends on the type of usage:
(a) improvements on the order of 10 percent have been obtained under highway
conditions, while (b) improvements of up to 40 percent have been obtained
under city stop-and-go driving conditions. Vehicle age and size do not appear
to affect relative engine efficiency.
8.        It is this very efficiency in energy usage which is, in part, res-
ponsible for the engine power loss suffered by CNG fueled vehicles relative
to gasoline fueled ones. The extent of the power loss varies with the vehicle
and driving situation, and is generally noticeable only when accelerating,
climbing a hill, or carrying a heavy load. Averaged power losses experienced
with CNG operation have been on the order of 10-20 percent, although the
drop-off can be substantial for vehicles in low throttle settings and higher
RPM ranges and for heavily laden vehicles. Advancing spark timing within



- 55 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 5
rather strict limits may reduce the power loss. At the same time, by virtue
of the gaseous state, natural gas offers easy starting, reliable idling, and
stumble free acceleration.
9.        Natural gas has an octane rating of 130, and therefore, does not
need the addition of lead--a substance harmful to both people and engines.
Moreover, although day-to-day maintenance costs may be higher initially until
experience is gained, use of natural gas can result in considerable savings
on routine preventative maintenance.  Actual use has shown for example, that
a CNG powered car can be driven up to 36,000 miles between oil changes and
40,000 miles between spark plug replacements. Engine life is also enhanced
substantially. These advantages have to be measured against a loss in cargo
space (30%) to CNG cylinders and limitations of range imposed on the auto-
mobile. Two cylinders of gas, would on average carry CNG equivalent to
20 litres of gasoline, giving an average Egyptian vehicle a range between
150 and 200 kilometers; after which it would either need to be refueled or
switch over to gasoline. Again, not only will refueling be required twice
as often but it will also be more time consuming. Refueling natural gas
would take about ten minutes against three to five minutes for gasoline.
Despite these disadvantages there are reasons to believe that consumers would
be willing to convert, provided adequate fiscal incentives are provided.
However, the major benefactor of the conversion would be the economy and
in the case of Egypt, a modest conversion program (10,000 vehicles), would
secure a rate of return in excess of 80%.
10.       Safety and Environment.  CNG is as safe, if not a safer motor fuel,
than gasoline. It is lighter than air, and unlike gasoline, quickly dissipates
when released to the atmosphere. Moreover, because of its high pressure it
must be contained in very strong cylinders which have an extremely low prob-
ability of bursting from excessive heat or mechanical damage. During 30 years
of operation in Italy, which has the most extensive experience with CNG and
where it is compulsory to report all accident damage involving gas cylinders,
there is no recorded accident resulting from a faulty CNG system. Although
CNG vehicles have been involved in their fair share of accidents, none were
attributable to CNG components. Component failure has rarely resulted from
an accident, and there have been no injuries or deaths attributable to CNG in
an accident. In USA in over 175 million miles logged by CNG vehicles, there
was no death and only one injury attributable to CNG in about 1,360 collisions,
of which more than 800 were rear-end collisions. This excellent safety record,
of course, does not mean that strict regulations and their enforcement, regard-
ing the manufacture, installation, and inspection are unnecessary. To ensure a
high level of safety, manufacturing quality and performance must be monitored
and installations checked and approved annually. Cylinders must be checked
and recertified at 5-year intervals. Particular attention must be paid in the
routing and secure fastening of all high pressure piping and in reducing the
number of connections and joints to a minimum. Cylinders involved in accidents
must be recertified and those found mechanically defective or thermally over-
stressed must be destroyed. A natural gas supply free of moisture and sulphur
impurities is an essential safety requirement.



- 56 -
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 5
11.       Natural gas is non-toxic and non-reactive in the atmosphere; that
is, it does not form smog. Moreover, it burns cleanly in a world in which
exhaust emissions from motor vehicles are a major source of air pollution,
particularly in urban areas. A vehicle powered by natural gas releases air
emissions totaling only 10-20 percent as much as discharged by a gasoline
powered vehicle.  Composite emission comparisons in a series of tests in
Southern California showed an 83 percent reduction in carbon monoxide, a 72
percent reduction in hydrocarbons, and a 97 percent reduction in oxides of
nitrogen when operating on CNG compared to stock gasoline. On a total energy
cycle basis (i.e., from extraction to end-use), fueling a vehicle with natural
gas would result in total air emissions of only 10-40 percent of the total
which would result from using present-day gasoline.
12.       Potential for Use.  Given the present price differential between
gasoline/diesel and indigenously available natural gas, conversion of vehicles
to CNG offers substantial economic advantage. At the same time, natural gas
is more economical in terms of engine efficiency and maintenance, and more
environmentally sound in terms of both safety and pollution. Nevertheless,
the increased use of natural gas faces several constraints--capital costs of
conversion, development of refueling stations and gas distribution, reduced
vehicle range, and loss of engine power. Several of these constraints suggest
the urban environment with the existing infrastructure (pipelines, etc.) and,
initially, commercial and governmental fleets as the principal market for
natural gas powered vehicles. In addition to clear identification of the
potential savings to the consumers in using natural gas rather than gasoline,
conveniently located refuelling stations, adequate conversion facilities,
financial assistance for undertaking conversion, introduction of investment
tax credits, accelerated depreciation schedules, road tax credits, and other
financial incentives may be necessary to encourage greater conversion of
vehicles. Important policies pertaining to standards, jurisdiction and fiscal
incentives defined and established. Finally, caution must be exercised in
attempting to introduce CNG powered motor vehicles in other countries, as
technical feasibility, financial and economic viability, and social accept-
ability will differ from country to country. Conversion to CNG on an exten-
sive scale should therefore be considered only after its economic feasibility
has been studied in depth and its acceptability verified through a pilot
project.



- 57 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WESTERN DESERT EXPLORATION PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
Local   F. E.   Total          Local   F. E.   Total
*(In L.E. Millions)              (In US$ Millions)
Site Preparation and
Water Wells                    0.5     1.5      2.0           0.7      2.2      2.9
Drilling Rig                     1.6     6.9      8.5            2.3    10.0    12.3
Materials                        0.1     4.0      4.1            0.1     5.7      5.8
Well Services                    1.8     2.6      4.4            2.6     3.7      6.3
Seismic Surveys                  0.4     2.0      2.4           0.5      3.0      3.5
Technical Assistance              -      0.8      0.8             -      1.2      1.2
Basic Cost Estimate 1/           4.4    17.8    22.2             6.2    25.8    32.0
Physical Contingency             0.4     2.4      2.8            0.6     3.4      4.0
Price Contingency 2/             0.3     0.9      1.2            0.2     1.3      1.5
Total Estimated Explora-
tion Cost                     5.1    21.1    26.2             7.0    30.5    37.5
Compressed Natural Gas
Pilot Project                 0.7      1.1      1.8           1.0      1.5     2.5
Total Estimated Project
Cost                          5.8    22.2    28.0             8.0    32.0    40.0
1/   Based on 7 dry holes and 2 producers - see Annex VII pages 2 and 3 for
breakdown of costs.
2/   Based on 15% and 12% escalation of local costs in 1981 and 1982 respec-
tively and 9% and 8% over the corresponding period for foreign costs.
Not applied to rig and seismic work covered by fixed contract.



- 58 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WESTERN DESERT EXPLORATION PROJECT
Estimated Cost of One Exploration Well - Dry Hole
Local   F. E.   Total          Local   F. E.   Total
(In L. E. Millions)             (In US$ millions)
1. Equipment and Materials
Casing                    -     0.161   0.161             -     0.234   0.234
Cement                    -     0.030   0.030             _     0.043   0.043
Casing Accessories        -     0.016   0.016             -     0.023   0.023
Bits and Nozzles          -     0.101   0.101             -     0.147   0.147
Mud                     0.007   0.062   0.069           0.010   0.090   0.100
Sub-Total         0.007   0.370   0.377           0.010   0.537   0.547
2.  Services
Drilling Rig, Fuel
and Water              0.166   0.768   0.934           0.240   1.110   1.350
Cementing                 -      0.100   0.100             -     0.140   0.140
Logging                   -      0.124   0.124             -     0.180   0.180
Gas Unit                  -      0.031   0.031             -     0.045   0.045
Transportation:
Equipment and
Materials            0.104     -      0.104          0.150     -      0.150
Rig                    0.110   0.042   0.152           0.160   0.060   0.220
Sub-Total         0.380   1.065   1.445           0.550   1,535   2.085
3.  Water Wells              0.041   0.166   0.207           0.060   0.240   0.300
4.  Well Site Preparation   0.014       -     0.014          0.020      -     0.020
Basic Cost Estimate      0.442   1.601   2.043           0.64    2.312   2.952



- 59 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 3
EGYPT
WESTERN DESERT EXPLORATION PROJECT
Estimated Cost of One Well Completed As A Producer
Local   F. E.   Total           Local   F. E.   Total
(In L. E. Million)               (In US$ Millions)
1. Equipment and Materials
Casing                       -     0.248   0.248             -     0.359   0.359
Cement                       -     0.030   0.030             -     0.043   0.043
Casing Accessories           -     0.021   0.021             -     0.030   0.030
Bits and Nozzles             -     0.101   0.101             -     0.147   0.147
Tubing                       -     o.o48   o.o48             -     0.070   0.070
Well Head                    -     0.021   0.021             -     0.030   0.030
Mud                        0.007   0.062   0.069           0.010   0.090   0.100
Completion Testing           -     0.035   0.035             -     0.050   0.050
Sub-Total           0.007   0.566   0.573           0.010   0.819   0.829
2. Services
Drilling Rig,
Fuel and Water          0.166   0.768   0.934            0.240   1.110   1.350
Cementing                    -     0.097   0.097             -     0.140   0.140
Logging and
Perforation               -      0.124   0.124             -     0.180   0.180
Gas Unit                     -     0.030   0.030             -     0.045   0.045
Transport:
Equipment and
Materials            0.104      -     0.104          0.150      -      0.150
Rig                       0.028   0.041   0.069            0.040   0.060   0.100
Sub-Total            0.298   1.060   1.358           0.430   1.535   1.965
3.  Water Wells                 0.041   0.166   0.207           0.060   0.240   0.300
4.  Well Site Preparation       0.014      -     0.014          0.020      -      0.020
Basic Cost Estimate       0.360   1.792   2.152            0.520   2.594   3.114



- 60 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WESTERN DESERT EXPLORATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF GPC
Present Financial Position
GPC's major activity has been confined, until now, to the production
of crude oil. As of the end of 1979, the Company's net assets of LE63 mil-
lion consisted of LE28 million (44%) of oil production investments, LE23
million (37%) of working capital, and LE12 million (19%) of investments in
its drilling subsidiary and Government bonds. Ninety-nine percent of the net
assets were represented by EGPC equity. GPC-s relatively minor long-term
debt represented the balance due on suppliers credits from the USSR which
will be repaid within the next five years.
Throughout the past years, crude exports have allowed GPC to main-
tain a sound financial position. In the period 1976-79, total oil production
averaged about 26,000 B/D. Of this amount, about 95% was exported. As a
result of the increases in the international oil price, GPC's total revenues
rose from LE40 million in 1976 to LE109 million in 1979, and net income
from LE29 million in 1976 to LE86 million in 1979. Despite a statutory
requirement that nearly 85% of net income be allocated for distribution to
EGPC and the Government, the level of GPC-s retained reserves have permitted
the Company to cover between 1976 and 1979 a modest program of capital expen-
diture for drilling and field renovation, and to increase its working capital
and financial investments without any external influx of funds.



- 61 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 3
General Petroleum Company
Summary Financial Statements
(In Million LE)
Actual                Projected
For Year Ending December 31:              1979       1980    1981    1982    1983
INCOME STATEMENTS
Revenue                                    109        120     123      120      118
Expense                                     15         21      24       27       27
Income Before Interest
and Taxes                              94         99       99       93       91
Less:  Interest                              -          -       (1)      (1)     (2)
Taxes                               (8)        (8)      (8)      (8)      (8)
NET INCOME                            86         91       90       84       81
SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS STATEMENTS
SOURCES
Net Income                                  86         91      90       84       81
Less:  Distribution                        (73)       (77)    (76)    (71)    (68)
Retained Reserves                        13         14       14       13       13
Add:  Non-Cash Expense and Interest         12         12       18      17       15
Net Internal Cash Generation                25         26      32       30       28
IBRD Loan                                    -          -       6        7        3
EGPC Equity                                  -          -       -        -       20
TOTAL SOURCES                         25         26       38       37       51
USES
Western Desert Project                       -          6       14       5        -
Further Western Desert Investments           -          -       -       26       37
other Investments                           15         13      19       11        8
Total Capital Expenditures               15         19       33       42       45
Long-Term Investment                         5          4       4        4        4
Debt Service                                 -          -        1        1       2
Change in Working Capital                    5          3       -      (10)      _
TOTAL USES                            25         26       38       37      51



- 62 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 3
Future Finances
Even though the level of GPC's oil production is rurrently depleting
at a rate of about 10% per year, for as long as the predominant share of its
oil is allocated to exports, likely increases in the international oil prices
and presently planned development efforts would allow GPC to maintain a
relatively high level of net income at least through this present decade.
This level of income would ensure GPC's ability to service the debt on the
proposed Bank loan. It should also be sufficient to ensure GPC's ability
to cover, through internally generated funds, local project costs, a modest
extension of the proposed project, and certain investment for development,
at least through 1982. Additional financing for development from EGPC and/or
external borrowing may be required as early as 1983 in the event that the
exploration in the project area proves to be successful, however, this would
not present a problem.
GPC's longer term future finances will depend on the measure of
its success in generating new assets that will remain commercially productive
beyond this decade. It is in a position to benefit appreciably from any
success attained by its present foreign partners in exploration. In any
event, given the prospectiveness of the project area, even modest success
in its exploration, together with appropriate financing and gas pricing
plans, will help ensure that GPC's financial position will remain sound.



- 63 -
ANNEX IX
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WESTERN DESERT EXPLORATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                                  11 months
(b)  Agencies preparing the project:                        (i) General Petroleum Co.
(ii) Petroleum Gas Company
(c)  Project first presented to the Bank:                  July 1979
(d)  First Bank mission to consider the project:           May 1980
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:               June 21, 1980
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:                   October 31, 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                        May 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action:
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   Special conditions of effectiveness are:
(i) Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between EGPC and
GPC (para. 52) and
(ii)  Employment by GPC of consultants specialised in well
completion services (para. 55).
2.   A condition of disbursements for services relating to drilling works
under Part A of the Project is that the Bank has declared such services
eligible for financing on adequate documentation to be submitted by GPC
(para. 54).
3.   Another special condition is:
the preparation by June 30, 1981 of a study on the prospects of enhanced
secondary oil recovery in selected oil fields (para. 33).






IBRD 15212R
27- 22"                                                      29r                                                                                           3                                                   NOVEMEER 1980
/1M    e  d  / X e  r | r a  n  e  a  n    0:                  S  e  a        -                      do
MATRUIH                                                                               A       0                                           N
N                                                                                     I                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORT SAID
RAS E, ABAA                                                                   12         TA 
EL HAMRA                                                     M~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANSURA
I                                         \\\,                   w      \    j                          ISMALIA
WD7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1Pil ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~UEZ
N0                                                    -      --                   -       -                                                                                                             0 ,  - - -  --
_- ~ ~     ~     ~     2        \t                                                                                                             \t" AbvG  erds 'fEL  4 O 2 * S  4   _ _ _ - - - - - - - n < 
>    ,,    > J_    |  tl ! /IBRE-23 2. h 22nr. /                                                                                                                    FL T  rk|f  >t   ANEXIKHNA
At-) ~~~~~~~~~~ ry0tj 20W0331    24
2s  ./~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   g                                                                                                        | (              X                         29-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
2'   r_-                 ,--                   I; AA        Ia0u                                                                                                                                                      k
,   X, ,,  3  Lf3rIotN5YRA  /   iDARAB  REPUBLIC: OF  EGYPT                                                                   /\Q,
Meodat,rroa-aSr          SRE _          IRAQ                      WESTERN  DESERT EXPLORATION  PROJECT                                                                                                                  6u
J 0o -1~ SILO j  ®                                                                                                                                                     oren  ->'.'----St.dy  Ie.bo..d.y  *   We
3a-  )  <nr4EE t<1 XL r   °~ ~~~~~~~~ -                  E-ifing oil p,p.lh.es               0,1 .6le,ieesI                                                                                                k 
'N                                        '' -BR-2-  -     A o                 885
L BaAf  r;                 t; ---UDARBAE-fsmig g-s pipelm.,s uew Cana-s>
LBA  ARAB RELLC\           SUIAAA                             -_      1 upip.1,- udec,st,t-lo           R,vers                                        oL       "I      50      7'5    loo                                                 <
OF EGYP_               -2B'                       --- Gas pipelknes ,nder    obarlo -  Dep8e-snons                                                K1.                      A\)  ThRSWKIf
LS.  ,   .h               Z L             t3'~~~~~~~~~2                   22-_                             30                              31¢                              32-                              33-                          _






r-B    -. s -52815                                             ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT        s45s                        29-00
,, aic.i   \UoRnluN                                         WESTERN DESERT EXPLORATION PROJECT
I  PROJECT    \ h
j UR   J  SAUDI
LIBYA I                                                                       - - -- Study area boundary
I   ARAP    -                                                                  Inl,iol drillIng prospeets
OF REGYPTBL,C 5 X X                                                         Other prospective areas
- Fault lines
S UD~AN
;~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~j S tAN 
28-00
-2s-4s   t                         0          v           l                                   ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z2_   2sz
~~~PP  U,,n~~~~~~~',,                                                                  KILO ETE SR.G/
-29-45'  2UU U                                   D1                           2r.J        M                                             2'-U0
I                       /            /                        0 A-                         I~~~~~~~O
I~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /                 
I   -~~~~~    /E                                        N >                                 I~~~~~~~A
f  ___________ 7<_______________--m~~~~--------------n                            T=i~
29-30amm                                                                                                                                        29'3h0u'-e  8  52   3  e452  o   D 



