IT     OAN NUMBER 1928 EGT
D OCUMENT
Project Agreement
(Abu Gharadig Western Desert
Petroleum Exploration Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GENERAL PETROLEUM COMPANY
and
PETROLEUM GAS COMPANY
Dated                      1,3   , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1928 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    W"WAA    1, 1981, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTI     AND    ELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank), and GENERAL PETROLEUM COMPANY (hereinafter called GPC) and
PETROLEUM GAS COMPANY (hereinafter called Petrogas).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
five million dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that GPC
and Petrogas agree to undertake such obligations towards the Bank
as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS (A) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and GPC, the equivalent of a portion
of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement,
will be relent to GPC for Part A of the Project on the terms and
conditions therein set forth and (B) the equivalent of a portion
of the proceeds of said loan, will be mad3 available to Petrogas
for Part B of the Project; and
WHEREAS GPC and Petrogas, in consideration of inter alia the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) GPC shall carry out Part A of the Project
referred to in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence


﻿-2-
and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and petroleum exploration practices and
pursuant to the provisions set forth in such Schedule.
(b) Petrogas shall, with the assistance of the Nasr
Automotive Company, carry out Part B of the Project referred to
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and effi-
ciency, in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and gas practices and pursuant to the provisions set
forth in such Schedule, it being understood that, in carrying
such Part of the Project, Petrogas shall be acting with the
authorization of the Borrower and on its behalf and it being
further understood that a separate account to record operations
pertaining to such Part of the Project shall be established
promptly after the date hereof and thereafter maintained by the
Borrower under its sole responsibility, as provided in Section
5.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to
this Agreement.
(b) It is understood that the expression "the beneficiary"
as used in the Schedule hereto shall be deemed to refer to GPC or
Petrogas, as the case may be, whenever either of such entities
shall be required to take any action pursuant to the provisions
of such Schedule.
Section 2.03. (a) GPC and Petrogas undertake each to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent or
made available to it, as the case may be, by the Borrower against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by GPC or Petrogas, as the case may be, to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, GPC shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project until its completion.
(c) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Petrogas
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds


﻿-3-
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. GPC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, GPC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) GPC and Petrogas shall each, at the request
of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the
progress of Parts A and B of the Project, respectively, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and, only as
regards GPC, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) GPC and Petrogas shall each promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by GPC or Petrogas, as the case may
be, of its obligations under this Agreement and, only as regards
GPC, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) GPC and Petrogas shall each furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Parts A and B of the Project, respectively, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) GPC and Petrogas shall each: (i) maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A
and B of the Project, respectively, (including their cost and the
benefits to be derived therefrom), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available
to them, and to disclose their use in Parts A and B of the
Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in Parts A
and B of the Project, respectively, and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing Parts A and B of the Project, respectively, their cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived therefrom, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan made available to them
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-4-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than three months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed upon for this purpose among the
Borrower, GPC, Petrogas and the Bank, GPC and Petrogas shall,
in conjunction with each other and with the assistance of the
Borrower, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower, GPC, Petrogas and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan and the Project Agreements and related
agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) GPC and Petrogas shall each enable the Bank's
representatives to examine all installations, sites, works, build-
ings, property and equipment of GPC and Petrogas, respectively,
and any records and documents relevant to Parts A and B of the
Project, respectively, the operation of the facilities included
therein and the performance by GPC and Petrogas of their
respective obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. GPC shall take all action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for carrying out Part A of the
Project, and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
Part A of the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) GPC shall, by June 30, 1981 (or such other
date as the Bank may agree), carry out and complete a study on
the prospects of enhanced/secondary recovery in selected oil
fields subject to its jurisdiction.
(b) GPC shall, promptly upon the completion of such study,
review with the Bank the results of such study.
(c) GPC shall, promptly after such review, take all
appropriate action to prepare a program of enhanced/secondary
recovery in such oil fields, if the results of such study
warrant it.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GPC and Petrogas
Section 3.01. GPC and Petrogas shall each manage at all
times its affairs, maintain its financial position and plan its


﻿-5-
future expansion, in accordance with appropriate financial,
engineering, administrative and petroleum exploration and/or gas
(as the case may be) practices, and under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by qualified and
experienced personnel in sufficient numbers.
Section 3.02. (a) GPC and Petrogas shall each at all times
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on its
operations, and take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business and for
the execution of Parts A and B of the Project, respectively.
(b) GPC and Petrogas shall each at all times operate and
maintain its plants, equipment and properties and promptly make
all necessary repairs and renewal thereof, in accordance with
appropriate engineering and public utility practices.
(c) Except in the normal course of its business, each of
GPC and Petrogas shall not, without the prior approval of the
Bank, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
properties or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking.
Section 3.03. The obligations of GPC and Petrogas expressed
in this Agreement shall be applied to any subsidiary of GPC
and Petrogas, as the case may be, to the extent to which such
obligations shall or can be applicable thereto and as though
such obligations were binding on any such subsidiary, and GPC
and Petrogas shall each cause any such subsidiary to carry out
such obligations. For the purposes of this Section, the term
"subsidiary" shall have the meaning defined in Section 1.02 (h)
of the Loan Agreement and the term "Borrower" used in such
definition shall deem to refer to GPC or Petrogas, as the case
may be.
Section 3.04. GPC and Petrogas shall each take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.05. (a) GPC shall take all necessary measures to
ensure that the operation of the facilities included in Part A of
the Project shall be carried out with due regard to safety,
health, ecological and environmental factors.


﻿-6-
(b) In the event of any accident (including any "blow out"),
during the carrying out of Part A of the Project, GPC shall
promptly allocate all appropriate funds (including foreign
exchange funds), as required to secure the services necessary
to assist GPC in mitigating the consequences of such accident.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) GPC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing, GPC shall establish, promptly after the date hereof,
and thereafter maintain until the completion of Part A of the
Project a separate account for said Part of the Project.
Section 4.02. GPC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning its accounts
and financial statements, such records and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank, GPC and Petrogas thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its


﻿-7-
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify GPC and Petrogas
thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For GPC:
The General Petroleum Company
P.0 Box 743
Nasr City - Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
PETROGEN                           92 998 PETGN UN
Cairo
For Petrogas:
Petroleum Gas Company
P.O.B. 2048
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                    Telex:
PETGAS
Cairo                          93049 PTGAS
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of GPC or Petrogas, or by GPC on behalf
of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed
by their respective Chairman or such other person or persons as
GPC or Petrogas, as the case may be, shall designate in writing,
and GPC and Petrogas shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
y  iRe ional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
GENERAL PETROLEUM COMPANY
By
Authorized Representative
PETROLEUM GAS COMPANY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the beneficiary shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The beneficiary shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 11 -
Egypt may be granted a margin of pre-.rence in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Egypt if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the beneficiary and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Egypt equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 12 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Individual contracts for goods estimated to cost $100,000
equivalent or less may be procured on the basis of local pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank, provided, however, that the
aggregate cost of contracts so awarded shall not exceed $1,500,000
equivalent.
2.   In the event where the estimated amount of any contract
or the aggregate amount specified in sub-paragraph 1 of this para-
graph is likely to be exceeded, the beneficiary concerned shall
consult with the Bank on the procurement procedures to be fol-
lowed.
3.   GPC shall, in due course and before the termination of the
existing contracts for services used by GPC to carry out seismic
surveys and drilling, works, invite quotations in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank from a sufficient number of
qualified and experienced firms acceptable to the Bank, before
awarding new contracts for the procurement of such services.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for the Project estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the beneficiary shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the
beneficiary shall, before a final decision on the award is made,


﻿- 13 -
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the beneficiary and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the beneficiary shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the beneficiary and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the beneficiary shall
inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the beneficiary and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of     *198 1
FOR SECRETARY


