LOAN NUMBER 1928 EGT
Loan Agreement
(Abu Gharadig Western Desert
Petroleum Exploration Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EGYPTIAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
Dated                         3    ,1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1928 EGT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       .3   , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON  UCTION AN DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and EGYP IAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
(hereinafter called the Borrower), existing as a legal entity
under the laws of the ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT.
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of a part of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making this
Loan (hereinafter called the Loan) as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out
respectively by General Petroleum Company (hereinafter called GPC)
and Petroleum Gas Company (hereinafter called Petrogas) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance the Borrower
will make available to GPC and Petrogas the proceeds of the Loan
as hereinafter provided, it being understood that, in carrying
out Part B of the Project, Petrogas will be acting with the
authorization of the Borrower and on its behalf and it being
further understood that a separate account pertaining to such
Part of the Project shall be established and maintained directly
by the Borrower under its sole responsibility as provided in
Section 5.01 (b) hereof; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
Preamble and the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank, GPC and Petrogas of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement.
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and GPC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and "Subsidiary Loan" means the proceeds of the
Loan to be relent to GPC by the Borrower under such agreement, as
provided in such Section.
(c) "Project Area" means an area of about 3,500 square
kilometers located in the southern part of the Abu Gharadig region
of the Western Desert, as shown on a map submitted to the Bank by
GPC on the date hereof.
(d) "Decree No. 118" means the Guarantor's decree No. 118 of
1978 establishing Petrogas and governing Petrogas' operations, as
the same may be amended from time to time.
(e) "Law No. 20" means the Guarantor's law No. 20 of 1976
establishing the Borrower and governing the Borrower's operations,
as the same may be amended from time to time.'
(f) "Decree No. 57" means the Guarantor's presidential
decree No. 57 of 1957 establishing GPC and governing GPC's opera-
tions, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(g) "LE" and "Egyptian Pound" mean the currency of the
Guarantor.
(h) "Subsidiary" weans any company or entity of which a
majority of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary
interest is owned, or which is effectively controlled, by the
Borrower or by any one or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by
the Borrower and one or more of its subsidiaries.
(i) "CNG" means compressed natural gas.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Section 2.02 of,
and those of the Schedule to, the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.09. GPC is designated as the representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 hereof
and Article V of the General Conditions with respect to Part A
of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause GPC and Petrogas, respectively, to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all
their obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken, promptly as needed, all action including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable GPC and Petrogas to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan,
relend the equivalent of a portion thereof to GPC for Part A of
the Project, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and GPC under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank.    Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the
following:
(i) the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
repayable by GPC shall be the equivalent in
Egyptian Pounds (determined as of the date, or
the respective dates, of repayment) of the value
of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the
Loan Account;
(ii) the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by GPC in
thirty equal or approximately equal semi-annual
installments over twenty years (including four
and a half years of grace); and
(iii) -the Borrower shall charge GPC interest at nine
and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the
outstanding balance of the Subsidiary Loan in
addition to any charges payable by the Borrower
to the Bank on the Loan.


﻿-5-
(c) The Borrower shall, promptly after the date hereof, make
available to Petrogas the equivalent of a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan for Part B of the Project, under arrangements which
shall have been approved by the Bank.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall assist GPC and Petrogas
in preparing the report mentioned in Section 2.06 (c) of the
Project Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any records and
documents relevant to the Project, the operation of the Project
facilities and performance by the Borrower of its obligations
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall continue to operate its
business and conduct its affairs under the supervision of quali-
fied and experienced management and in accordance with appropriate
business, oil industry and financial practices and shall continue
to operate, maintain, renew and repair its pipeline, plant,
machinery, equipment and property, as required, in accordance
with appropriate engineering practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times maintain
its corporate existence and right to carry on operations and
shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges, licenses and franchises


﻿-6-
owned or held by it and necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
Section 4.04. Except in the normal course of its business,
the Borrower shall not, without the prior approval of the
Guarantor and the Bank, sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise
dispose of any of its other properties or assets which shall be
required for the efficient carrying on of its business.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing, the Borrower shall establish, promptly after the date
hereof, and thereafter maintain, until the completion of Part B of
the Project, a separate account to record operations pertaining to
said Part of the Project.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as    available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning its accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Guarantor
and the Bank shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall
create any lien on any of its assets as security for any debt,


﻿-7-
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in
the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect, at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower as security
for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an
equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan;
provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall review its finances and those of its subsidi-
aries by March 31 of each year and shall ensure that, based on the
findings of such review, the consolidated net revenues of the
Borrower and all of its subsidiaries for such year shall be not
less than 1.5 times the consolidated debt service requirements of
the Borrower and of all its subsidiaries for that year.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "consolidated" means the aggregate amount after
eliminating transactions (A) between the Borrower
and its subsidiaries and (B) transactions between
the subsidiaries inter se;
(ii) "consolidated net revenues" means the aggregate
revenues from all sources less the costs of pur-
chase of crude oil and products, operating and
administrative expenses, excise duties, fees,
taxes, royalties, and other levies, if any, but
before provision for depreciation, interest, and
other charges on debt;
(iii) "consolidated debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization, interest and
other charges in respect of debt; and
(iv) the term "debt" means all debt, including debt
assumed or guaranteed by the Borrower, or its


﻿-8-
subsidiaries, except debt incurred in the ordinary
course of business and maturing by its terms on
demand of less than one year after its incurrence.
(c) The foregoing provisions supersede any prior agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower on the same subject.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that GPC or Petrogas will be able to
perform their respective obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) Law No. 20 shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the operations or financial condition of the
Borrower;
(c) Decree No. 118 shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of Petrogas to carry out its cove-
nants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement;
(d) Decree No. 57 shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of GPC to carry out its covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement;
(e) the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of GPC or Petrogas, or for the suspension of their respective
operations; and
(f) GPC or Petrogas shall have failed to perform any of
their respective covenants, agreements or obligations under the
Project Agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) or (e)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph .(f) of Section 6.01
hereof shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower, GPC and Petrogas.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and GPC; and
(b) GPC 5hall have employed the consultants referred to in
Part A.II (b) (iii) of Schedule 2 hereto.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by GPC and Petrogas, and is legally binding upon GPC
and Petrogas in accordance with its terms; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and GPC and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and GPC in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.03. The date              /            , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Se      ion 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation
Osman Abdel Hafiz Street
Nasr City
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                     Telex:
PETMISR                           92049 UN
Cairo
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 11 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                  /C     %
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
EGYPTIAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
By                                Rpenti
VAuthorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Materials and consum-      6,500,000
ables used by GPC to
carry out drilling
works
(a) directly imported                        100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally procured                         90%
(2) Seismic services           3,500,000  )
used by GPC to                        )
carry out seismic                    )
surveys                              )
)       90%
(3) Services of drilling      12,000,000  )
rig used by GPC to                   )
carry out drilling                   )
works                                 )
(4) Services for tech-
nical assistance
under Parts A.I
(b) (iii) and B (a)
of the Project:
(a) Part A.I              1,500,000  )
(b) (iii)                       )       100% of for-
)       eign expendi-
)       tures
(b) Part B (a)              500,000  )


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(5) Equipment under              500,000          100% of
Part B of the                                foreign
Project                                      expenditures
(6) Unallocated                  500,000
TOTAL      25,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
GPC and Petrogas, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures for services described in Category (3) relating to
drilling works, until the Bank has declared that such services are
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan (as pro-
vided in Part A.II (a) (ii) of the Project).
(b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
withdrawals in respect of Category (3) on account of expenditures
for drilling works shall not exceed for any well under Part A
of the Project the equivalent of $2,000,000 (or such other amount
as the Bank may otherwise agree).


﻿- 14 -
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
withdrawals in respect of Categories (2) and (3) on account of
expenditures under existing contracts for services used by GPC to
carry out seismic surveys and drillinF works shall not exceed the
aggregate amount of $6,500,000 equiv.tALent.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that subject to
the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,500,000, may
be made in respect of Categories (1) through (3) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
July 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures
referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power
or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, GPC and Petrogas, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in
the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
The Project
The main objective of the Project is to accelerate the
development of petroleum resources in Egypt, through the carrying
out by GPC of exploration activities to find new accumulations of
gas or oil in the Project Area. In addition, the Project aims at
assessing the possibility of upgrading the use of natural gas by
using it in place of liquid hydrocarbon fuels in motor vehicles.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Petroleum Exploration Activities to be carried out by
GPC in the Project Area
I.   Description
Such activities aim at executing an indicative program
consisting of:
(a) Seismic surveys.
(i) Reprocessing    of existing   seismic records of
the Project Area to secure a clearer defini-
tion of the Abu Roash zones and some more complex
faulted zones.
(ii) Shooting of about 170 line-kilometers of detailed
seismic profiles across the structures identified
on the map of the Project Area by the letters H, L,
T, P, A, W, G and Z to assist GPC in determining
the locations of the wells to be drilled in the
Project Area.
(iii) Shooting of a regional grid of about 900 line-kilo-
meters of reconnaissance seismic profiles across
about 17 mapped structures to explore inter alia
for possible closures in such structures and, if
the preliminary results thereof so warrant, detail-
ing further such structures.
(b) Drilling of about nine (9) exploratory and/or appraisal
wells on locations selected in the manner provided for in
paragraph II below.


﻿- 16 -
(c) (i) The planning, monitoring and supporting of the
drilling works described above and the carrying out
of the testings associated with such works.
(ii) The planning, monitoring and processing of the
seismic surveys described above.
II. Execution
(a) Such activities will be carried out, on a continuing
basis and in accordance with the indicative program referred to
above, in the following fashion:
(i) GPC will complete the seismic surveys included in
paragraph I (a) (ii) above before undertaking those
included in paragraph I (a) (iii) above; and
(ii) (A) GPC will drill the exploratory and/or apprai-
sal wells in compliance with the conditions
set out in sub-paragraphs (B), (C) and (D)
below.
(B) In order to enable the Bank to declare ser-
vices relating to drilling works pertaining to
a given well and described in Category (3) of
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agree-
ment eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, GPC will, in a timely
fashion to ensure that the exploration activi-
ties under Part A of the Project be carried
out without interruption, submit to the
Bank a documentation specific to the well in
question consisting of inter alia:
(1) the final report on the immediately
preceding well drilled in the Project
Area by GPC; and
(2) a pre-location report satisfactory to
the Bank on the proposed well to be
drilled.
(C) Without prejudice upon the generality of the
provisions of the foregoing sub-paragraph (B),


﻿- 17 -
GPC will, after drilling four exploratory
wells, review with the Bank the results of
such drilling and prepare, on the basis of
such results and in agreement with the Bank,
all appropriate documentation showing the
terms and conditions under which the drilling
of further exploratory wells under Part A of
the Project will be pursued.
(D) The Bank shall, upon review of the documen-
tation referred to in sub-paragraphs (B) and
(C) above, inform GPC:
(1) that the services described in the
above-mentioned Category and relating to
the well proposed by GPC, are then
eligible for such financing; or
(2) that additional information on the
proposed well is necessary before the
eligibility for such financing may be
declared by the Bank; it being understood
that the Bank shall then specify the
nature and scope of the required addi-
tional information.
(b) Such indicative program shall be carried out through
inter alia:
(i) the assignment, out of the GPC's departmental
forces, of personnel in sufficient numbers who
are qualified for, and experienced in, the tasks
described in paragraph I above, such GPC's person-
nel to be assisted by qualified and experienced
contractors for well services which GPC shall
promptly employ for that purpose; and
(ii) the provision of:
(1) materials and consumables used by GPC for
the carrying out of the drilling works
included in such program; and
(2) services used by GPC for carrying out
such seismic surveys and drilling works;
and


﻿- 18 -
(iii) the provision of about 100 man-months of consul-
tants' and specialists' services to assist GPC's
personnel in carrying out the tasks referred to in
paragraph I above; to that end, GPC shall employ
appropriate exploration and well completion consul-
tants and specialists whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to GPC and the Bank.
Part B:   Study-cum-Pilot Project for the Conversion of Automotive
Vehicles to CNG to be carried out by Petrogas
I.   Description
This Part of the Project aims at assessing the financial and
economic feasibility of converting gasoline and, subsequently,
diesel-powered automotive vehicles to the use of CNG, such
assessment to include, on a pilot scale, the conversion of
gasoline-powered vehicles to the use of CNG and the establishment
of CNG fueling stations and the acceptability of such scheme by
the public.
II. Execution
This Part of the Project shall be carried out through the
provision of:
(a) about 50 man-months of consultants' and specialists'
services; to that end, Petrogas shall, by June 30, 1981 (or
such other date as the Bank may agree) employ consultants and
specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to Petrogas and the
Bank; and
(b) materials and equipment required to convert gasoline-
powered vehicles to the use of CNG and establish CNG fueling
stations.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1985
through   June 1, 2000                      805,000
On December 1, 2000                              850,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.407
More than three years but n't
more than six years before
maturity                                          2.75%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   5.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                   7.4o.
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                   8.307
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                   9.257


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /W      day of   /AA, 198 I
FORSECRETARY


