Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H135 ET 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Operation) 
 
between 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 17, 2004 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H135 ET 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 2004, between FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated October 28, 2004, 
(the Letter of Development Policy) from the Recipient describing therein a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable 
reductions in poverty in its territory by enhancing rapid and equitable economic growth, 
through rural and private sector development, while maintaining macroeconomic stability 
and strengthening public sector management and governance, including in the context of 
decentralization (hereinafter called the Pr
ogram), declaring the Recipient’s commitment 
to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B) 
the Recipient has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Association has decided, in 
support of the Program, to provide such assistance to the Recipient by making the Grant 
in a single tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  3
2
-
-
(a) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Recipient’s fiscal year beginning July 
8
and ending July 7 of the following calendar year;  
(b) 
“MEFF” means Macroeconomic and Fiscal Framework, a medium-term 
financing plan developed by the Recipient to achieve an integrated planning and budget 
system in Ethiopia; 
(c) 
“MoFED” means either the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and 
Economic Development;  
(d) 
“PIP” means the Recipient’s Public Investment Program; 
(e) 
“PEP” means the Recipient’s Public Expenditure Program; 
(f) 
“Proclamation, Regulations, Directives, and Circulars” mean various 
laws of the Recipient adopted respectively, by the Recipient’s Parliament, Council of 
Ministers, Ministries, Public Agencies and Regions; and 
(g) “Region 
and 
Woreda
”
mean either a specific administrative area within 
the Recipient’s territory as defined in the Recipient’s Constitution or different local 
government levels within the Recipient’s territory established and operating pursuant to 
the relevant Regional Constitutions. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Grant Agreement an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighty eight million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 88,600,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. (a)  Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the 
Grant Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree: (i) all withdrawals from 
the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into an account designated by 
the Recipient and acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the Recipient shall ensure that 
Page  4
3
-
-
upon each deposit of an amount of the Grant into said account, an equivalent amount is 
credited to an account, acceptable to the Association, that finances budget expenditures. 
(c) 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association determines at any time that any amount of the Grant was 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment 
to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 and 
November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.06. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  5
4
-
-
ARTICLE III
 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient undertakes to implement the Program with due 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into 
effect. 
(b) 
The Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(c) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient  shall promptly furnish to the Association such 
information relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association 
may, from time to time, reasonably request.  
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  6
5
-
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Development of the 
Recipient is designated as the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
The Minister of Finance and Economic Development 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
 
P.O. Box 1905 
 
Addis Ababa  
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
21147
251-1-551355 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
    248423 (MCI) or 
    (202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
      64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  7
6
-
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA  
 
By 
  /s/ 
Ato 
Kassahun 
Ayele 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
  /s/ 
Ishac 
Diwan 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
7
-
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another grant, credit or a loan; and 
2. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112  - 
 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
 
 Tobacco, unmanu-factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122             
- 
 
 Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
 
 Radioactive and associated materials 
 
667 
- 
 
 Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked or worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
 
 Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 
728.43 
 
 Tobacco processing machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
 
 Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except watches and watch 
 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including set gems) 
Page  9
8
-
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
971 
- 
 
 Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party;  
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  10
9
-
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) 
of the Preamble to this Agreement 
(a) 
The Recipient has in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 26 of 
the Letter of Development Policy, finalized a privatization action plan and commenced 
implementation of measures for accelerating the privatization program;    
 
(b) 
the Recipient has adopted the revised telecommunications policy to 
allow for partial liberalization of the telecommunications sector, and has provided 
evidence satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
30 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
 
(c) 
the Recipient has reviewed the micro and rural finance strategy and 
developed an action plan to improve access to micro and rural finance, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association, and consistent with the provisions of paragraph 32 of the 
Letter of Development Policy;  
(d) 
the Recipient has defined institutional arrangements, implementation 
modalities and monitoring mechanisms for a system of multi-annual productive safety 
nets and commenced implementation, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, and 
consistent with the provisions of paragraph 26 of the Letter of Development Policy;  
(e)  
in accordance with paragraph 33 of its Letter of Development Policy, the 
Recipient has furnished to the Association evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, of the validation and adoption by all Regions of the Federal design 
options and guidelines for primary school construction with lower unit costs and 
community participation; 
(f) 
in accordance with paragraph 21 of its Letter of Development Policy, the 
Recipient has furnished to the Association evidence, satisfactory to the Association, of  
issuance by MoFED of fiscal decentralization strategy for municipalities and 
Woredas, 
including municipal financial management regulations adopted and passed by four 
Regions;  
(g) 
in accordance with paragraph 22 of its Letter of Development Policy, the 
Recipient has furnished to the Association evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, of issuance of a directive on strategic planning management, consistent 
with the MEFF, PIP, PEP and the annual budgeting cycle;   
Page  11
10 
 
-
-
(h) 
the Recipient has furnished to the Association evidence, satisfactory to 
the Association, of: (i) the revision of the urban land lease regulation adopted in the city 
of Addis Ababa; (ii)  adoption of a directive for the management and regularization of 
informal settlements; and (iii) commencement of implementation of the regularization 
process, all consistent with the provisions of paragraph 31 of the Letter of Development 
Policy;  
(i) 
in accordance with paragraph 24 of its Letter of Development Policy, the 
Recipient has furnished to the Association evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association of clearance by the Cabinet and submission to its parliament of the draft 
Procurement Proclamation; and  
(j) 
in accordance with paragraph 23 of its Letter of Development Policy, the 
Recipient has furnished to the Association evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association of the reduction of the audits backlog for consolidated Federal accounts 
to one year, including closing the accounts and submission of such accounts to the 
Auditor General.  
Page  12
11 
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to read 
as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term “credit” 
shall continue to read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject 
to any modifications set forth in such agreement.”  
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Development Grant Agreement 
to which the Grant is made.” 
Page  13
12 
 
-
-
5. 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Grant Agreement, in support of which the Grant is made.”; 
6. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; Partial 
Payment”. 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under the 
Development Grant Agreement”. 
7. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made 
(a)  The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it under the 
Development Grant Agreement in the currency specified in such 
agreement or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of 
this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
(d) 
Section 4.06(b) is modified to read as follows: 
Page  14
13 
 
-
-
“(b) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without restrictions of any 
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
8. 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Grant Agreement and of 
these General Conditions”; 
9. 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
10. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant agreement or any 
development credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) 
is modified to read: “any development grant agreement, development credit agreement or 
development financing agreement”. 
11. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“(a) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and 
free from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
12. 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, the Recipient 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
 
on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Grant Agreement, the 
performance by the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Grant.” 
Page  15
14 
 
-
-
13. 
Section 9.04 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 
9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
14. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the Development Grant 
Agreement.”
 
