Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB1080 
Project Name 
PRSC II 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P077749 
Borrower(s) 
Government of the Federal Republic of Ethiopia  
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
August 31, 2004/ Revised on December 1, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 15, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
November 30, 2004 
1. C
OUNTRY 
B
ACKGROUND
 
Ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in the world. Per capita incomes in Ethiopia are no higher today 
than they were 40 years ago.  This is both a cause and a consequence of very low levels of human and 
physical capital 
–
for instance, health, education, roads, irrigation, electricity, and marketing facilities – as 
well as low resilience to recurrent shocks.   
 
While average incomes have not risen much over the long term, growth rates have nonetheless varied 
significantly over time in the face of policy and exogenous factors. The period of the Derg was 
particularly damaging for growth and human development.  In the early 1990s after a new regime took 
over the reins of Government, an ambitious structural and state transformation process commenced.  
Reforms were launched to stimulate agricultural production and greater private sector participation in 
markets, and a new emphasis was placed on the provision of primary education and health services in 
rural areas.  Farm-gate prices rose, productivity increased, production expanded, gross enrollment rates 
increased rapidly, and infant mortality rates registered improvements. The state also moved decisively 
towards a federal system, empowering first the Regional Governments and as of the last two years, the 
woredas (districts) in the four largest Regions and municipalities. A governance reform program ranging 
across budgetary and human resource management systems was launched to improve public sector 
efficiency and effectiveness at every level of the system of Government.  In 2001 the Government 
articulated its strategy for continued reform and progress in its SDPRP, encompassing areas that are 
critical to the achievement of Ethiopia’s goals for growth and poverty reduction, and the MDGs. 
 
Ethiopia’s GDP growth rebounded sharply in 2003/04
1
by 11.6 percent.  This follows two years where 
economic growth was severely impacted by the combination of the worst drought in twenty years and 
large declines in the terms of trade for key commodities, particularly coffee.  As expected, the strong 
growth in 2003/04 was due primarily to the substantial recovery of the agriculture sector, which grew by 
18.9 percent.  Evidence also points towards stronger private sector growth, with large increases in credit 
extended to the private sector and an increase in private investment as a share of GDP.  Despite the highly 
variable growth experienced and the many exogenous shocks, the Ethiopian Government has continued to 
maintain stable macroeconomic policies.  The Fifth Review of the three-year IMF Poverty Reduction and 
1
The Ethiopian fiscal year runs from July 8 to July 7. 
Page  2
Growth Facility (PRGF) concludes that all of the quantitative indicators and performance benchmarks 
under the program have been met. 
 
Since the adoption of the SDPRP by Government, pro-poor spending has been increasing substantially.  
The composition of spending further rationalized: notably, defense spending remained stable while 
poverty-focused sector spending increased by more than 3% of GDP.  This pattern is expected to be 
sustained in the medium-term.  On structure of spending, we note that the share of spending to pro-poor 
sectors (defined as per the SDPRP to include agriculture and natural resources, food security, health, 
education and roads) increased substantially from less than 50% of the budget in 1997 to more than 63% 
of the total expenditure for next year.  Pro-poor expenditures are budgeted to increase by 7.6 percent 
between 2003/04 and 2004/05.  Most notable among the changes in sectoral allocations is the large 
increase in rural spending in the last two years, reflecting the Government’s rollout of the Food Security 
Program.  Despite these increases, per capita spending in social sectors in Ethiopia remains amongst the 
lowest in the region.   
 
A
durable reduction in poverty by 2015 however requires high growth performance. The forthcoming 
CEM of the World Bank has developed a macroeconomic model using trend-based scenarios which 
indicate that to significantly accelerate poverty reduction, per capita GDP growth rates in the range of 2.3 
to 3.8 percent per annum are required.  In any scenario, agriculture will continue to play a key role in 
Ethiopia’s structural transformation.  Reaching the goal of halving 1990 poverty levels by 2015 will not 
be possible, for example, without buoyant agricultural growth of 4.6% per annum.
 
Poverty reduction also requires a balanced growth strategy.  The requisite levels of growth will 
necessitate development in both high potential and so-called low potential areas.  Commercialization of 
the rural economy is at the core of the SDPRP, which is expected to energize rural growth and also 
stimulate urban growth via multiplier effects. The principal challenge to achieving this is increasing 
agricultural productivity—of both land and labour.  Public sector investments in capacity building 
(educational attainment in general, and applied training in agriculture in particular) for the rural 
population, in agricultural research, in agricultural extension, in marketing (inputs and outputs), the 
development of cooperatives, and in water and environmental management, are central to the 
Government’s strategy to increase productivity and promote rural growth, both on- and off-farm.  
 
Government policy to strengthen the investment climate by reducing administrative transaction costs, 
reducing uncertainty in rural and urban land markets, and credit availability will also be vital.  Several 
regional governments have recently moved forward on this agenda by passing legislation to enhance land 
tenure security in rural areas. Even in the low potential areas—where food insecurity levels are high—
there is significant scope to increase agricultural productivity by investing in soil and water conservation 
activities to reverse environmental degradation; reducing risk for small farmers which would enable 
greater use of fertilizer and improved seeds; public investment in roads and other market infrastructure; 
and removing the distortionary effects of emergency food aid by moving as much as possible to 
predictable, productive and cash-based safety nets.   
 
A
large share of the required investment effort will initially need to be foreign aid-funded because 
revenue mobilization levels are already high.  This would imply a sizable increase in foreign aid, mostly 
in the form of grants, equivalent to increasing ODA levels from the current level of $ 1.3 billion in 2002 
to $ 3.2 billion in 2015.  Increased levels of foreign assistance can be effective in Ethiopia because the 
country has a reasonably good medium-term policy framework and commitment to poverty reduction.  
The potential Dutch disease effect would not materialize if the additional resources are translated into 
productive investments.  
 
Page  3
2. R
ATIONALE 
 
The proposed Credit is a core operation to support implementation of the SDPRP and the Bank Group’s 
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).  The CAS for FY03-05 envisaged a series of annual PRSCs.   
 
The proposed operation would be the second in this PRSC series.  The rationale for continuing Bank 
support to the SDPRP in a second PRSC remains strong as the Government has made good progress in 
implementing and extending its policy and institutional reform agenda, and has devoted an increasing 
share of public expenditure to poverty-reducing areas in each of the past several years.   
 
Additionally, over the course of the last year, the collaborative, policy- and results-focused preparation 
process of the PRSCs and donor Joint Budget Support (JBS) operations has played a key catalytic role in 
consolidating and operationalizing a harmonized approach to policy dialogue and public financing.  
Evidence to this effect includes the following.  
First,
 as input into the annual dialogue and decision-
making process on PRSC/JBS, a  common framework for monitoring public expenditure issues has been 
agreed via a Joint Budget and Aid Review (JBAR) and an annual review of public financial management 
systems through an Annual Fiduciary Assessment (AFA). 
Second,
 since the approval of PRSC I in 
February 2004, Government and PRSC/JBS partners have made further clarifications on the alignment of 
the JBS/PRSC cycles to the SDPRP/Ethiopian budget cycles.  Sector review mechanisms in education 
and health have also been re-aligned to ensure better feedback loops with the newly introduced financial 
calendar.  
Third,
 the first cycle of PRSC/JBS preparation realized the potential for reduced transactions 
costs for Government of external resource mobilization.  A large amount of Joint Budget Support from 
other donors has been leveraged by the PRSC and its associated collaborative preparation process which 
resulted in a unified PRSC/JBS policy matrix. PRSC I disbursed approximately USD 123 million in 
March 2004; Joint Budget Support from other partners is estimated to have generated in total an 
additional $135 million in the first round.  In the second round of PRSC/JBS support, the JBS amount 
leveraged by the joint PRSC/JBS framework is likely to be significantly higher. 
 
3. P
ROPOSED OBJECTIVE
(
S
): 
 
Given the formidable challenges on all fronts—growth, vulnerability and service delivery—Ethiopia’s 
PRSC series is conceived with a wide coverage of cross-cutting and sectoral reform issues to help achieve 
simultaneous progress across multiple areas towards the SDPRP goals/MDGs.  While the reform program 
supported under the PRSC/JBS series is expected to make steady and demonstrable progress each year on 
all the important fronts, the state and structural transformation agenda Ethiopia has embarked upon is 
expected to require several years to fully unfold.  The development objectives of each annual PRSC are 
thus linked within a rolling, programmatic series which jointly aims to consolidate progress in 
implementation of the SDPRP’s multi-faceted reform program; support progress on the harmonization 
and financing alignment agendas; and develop the policy matrix to update and extend the rolling three-
year planning framework to include the outer year.  
 
The development objective of PRSC II is to support improvements in: (i) the investment climate, (ii) 
governance and service delivery, and (iii) vulnerability, by continuing to support the Government’s 
medium-term reform program.  In addition, attention will be paid to the newly agreed Joint Budget and 
Aid Review (JBAR), the Annual Fiduciary Assessment (AFA), the ongoing Sector Reviews, and the 
SDPRP M&E Action Plan. 
 
Page  4
4. P
RELIMINARY DESCRIPTION
 
The policy actions and indicators in the program matrix are organized into four “thematic areas” of the 
PRSC series drawn from the SDPRP.  They are: (i) private and financial sector development; (ii) rural 
development and vulnerability; (iii) human development; and (iv) public expenditure and institutional 
performance.  Actions across the themes are expected to reinforce each other to achieve results.  Given 
the broad coverage of these themes, PRSC II does not involve sharp swings in the policy matrix 
developed during PRSC I.  It was agreed during Pre-Appraisal of PRSC II, however, that policy 
dimensions of water and sanitation, and roads are already part of the SDPRP, they have or are developing 
Sector Wide Approaches, and will be incorporated into the PRSC program. 
 
As a programmatic adjustment operation, PRSC-II financing will be provided based on the up-front 
completion before Board approval of a set of priority reform measures and public actions (“prior actions”) 
that demonstrate satisfactory progress with the reform agenda in support of the SDPRP.  As mentioned 
earlier, these actions are drawn from Ethiopia’s SDPRP matrix.  Apart from these “bolded” actions in the 
program, there are several additional actions which are important elements of the Government’s program 
and are reflected in the full PRSC policy matrix.   
 
Based on the above discussion, Table 1 illustrates the relationship between the themes of PRSC II, the 
objectives, and the prior actions, drawing out the complementarities and cross-cutting aspects of the 
program.   
 
Table 1.  Evolution of “Bolded” Prior Actions for PRSC II  
and Alignment with PRSC Themes and Objectives 
 
PRSC II TRIGGER AS PROPOSED 
IN PRSC I PROGRAM DOCUMENT 
Revised PRSC II Trigger 
(bolded prior action) 
PRSC 
Theme 
Objective 1: Improvements in Investment Climate 
1
Revise federal law and adopt new land 
proclamation in Addis Ababa 
Revised urban land lease provision 
adopted in Addis Ababa; 
complemented by adoption of a 
directive for the management and 
regularization of informal settlements; 
and regularization under 
implementation 
Public Expenditure 
and Institutional 
Performance 
2
Commence implementation of agreed 
measures for accelerating privatization 
program.   
 
Finalization of a Privatization Action 
Plan and commence implementation of 
agreed measures for accelerating 
privatization program.   
 
Private and Financial 
Sector Development 
Adoption of revised telecommunications 
policy allowing for partial liberalization 
of the telecommunications sector 
Unchanged 
Private and Financial 
Sector Development 
Objective 2: Improvements in Governance and Service Delivery 
3
Cabinet approval of fiscal 
decentralization strategy 
MOFED issuance of fiscal 
decentralization strategy 
Public Expenditure 
and Institutional 
Performance 
4
Revise the financial calendar and issue a 
directive on strategic planning 
management, consistent with MEFF, 
PIP/PEP, and annual budgeting cycle 
Unchanged Public 
Expenditure 
and Institutional 
Performance 
Page  5
5
Reduction of audit backlog for federal 
accounts to one year 
Reduction of audit backlog for federal 
accounts to one year by closing the 
accounts and submission of the 
accounts to the Auditor General  
Public Expenditure 
and Institutional 
Performance 
6
Procurement Proclamation enacted [by 
Parliament] 
Cabinet clearance and submission to 
Parliament of draft Procurement 
Proclamation for approval 
Public Expenditure 
and Institutional 
Performance 
7
Federal design options and guidelines 
for primary school construction with 
lower unit costs and community 
participation are validated and adopted 
by all Regions 
Unchanged Human 
Development 
Objective 3: Reductions in Vulnerability 
8
Review the micro- and rural finance 
strategy and develop action plan to 
improve access to micro- and rural 
finance 
Unchanged 
Private and Financial 
Sector Development 
9
Define institutional arrangements, 
implementation modalities and 
monitoring mechanisms for a system of 
multi-annual productive safety nets and 
begin implementation 
Unchanged Rural 
Development 
and Vulnerability 
It was originally planned that PRSC-II would continue the strategy outlined in the Program Document of 
PRSC-I of gradually shifting the timing of PRSC support in order to be aligned with the Government 
budget cycle by PRSC-IV.  To accomplish this, PRSC II would have been be expected to disburse its 
funds around November 2004; PRSC III around September 2005; and PRSC IV around July 2006.  
However, following the most recent discussions with Government, the Bank has been informed that 
Government would prefer to freeze the timing of the PRSCs as it currently stands in the interest of 
predictability of resource flows.  Therefore, future PRSCs would be expected to complete their key 
preparation milestones at the same time in the year as the current operation. 
 
5. S
AFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY
 
None applicable
 
6. T
ENTATIVE FINANCING
 
Source ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
130 
 Total 
130 
The operation is expected to take the form of an IDA grant in the amount of US$130 million, to be 
disbursed in a single tranche upon project effectiveness.  
 
In the context of the overall harmonization agenda, substantial progress has been made in aligning the 
Bank’s programmatic support—delivered through the PRSC series—with donors’ budget support. PRSCs 
and donors’ budget support operations are prepared through a common process with synchronized 
timetables and missions, and a common matrix of actions and indicators drawn from the SDPRP.  This 
Page  6
process currently includes the World Bank, African Development Bank, Canada, the United Kingdom, 
the European Union, Germany, Ireland, and Sweden.  Current indications are that the amount of 
programmatic/budget support for 2004/05 could total $347 million, of which $130 million is proposed to 
be provided by IDA in this operation, and $217 million from donor partners.  
 
7.  
I
MPLEMENTATION
 
The Ministry of Finance and Economic Development will be responsible for overall implementation of 
the proposed operation and for reporting progress and coordinating actions among other concerned 
ministries and agencies. 
 
The Government, the Bank and JBS donor partners have agreed to a semi-annual set of
 “joint budget 
support” missions during which progress in implementation of, and follow-up to, agreed policy actions 
will be monitored.  In addition, technical groups in each sector will conduct continuous technical dialogue 
according to schedules that are appropriate to the sector.  The periodic PRSC/JBS assessment of progress 
in program implementation is expected to draw on the findings of these sector reviews and dialogue, 
rather than to duplicate these processes. 
 
8.  
S
USTAINABILITY
 
The overall likelihood that the reform program will be sustainable is high. Sustainability of results for 
PRSC-2 will be subject to continued government commitment to poverty reduction to ensure the steady 
application of changes in the policy environment.  The likelihood of this condition being met is 
considered to be strong, as the government has a long-term vision for poverty reduction, clearly 
articulated through its SDPRP, and a clear reform agenda for achieving this vision.  
 
9.  
L
ESSONS 
L
EARNED FROM 
P
AST 
O
PERATIONS IN THE 
C
OUNTRY
/S
ECTOR
 
OED review of the PRS process
.
In 2003, the Operations Evaluation Department (OED), the independent evaluation unit of the World 
Bank, initiated an evaluation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) process to assess whether it had, 
indeed, resulted in a transformation in the Bank’s approach to development aid for the poorest.  Ethiopia 
was chosen as the subject of a background case study for the review. 
 
The evaluation concluded that the Bank has played a constructive role in the PRSP process in Ethiopia, 
and that ownership of the strategy by central government is clear.  OED found that the Bank program is 
broadly aligned with the SDPRP. Progress has been made in taking forward some key areas of the 
government’s program. Tangible progress has also been made in donor alignment with the SDPRP. While 
the SDPRP was still in its infancy at the time of the review, the evaluation uncovered some potentially 
divergent expectations about the process. The Government views the SDPRP as an important opportunity 
to articulate its longstanding policy program to both internal and external constituents. Many donors view 
it as the first step on the road to more responsive and transparent government and a new context for aid 
relations. CSOs and NGOs view the PRSP approach in a more radical light, hoping for a more 
fundamental shift in the political economy of policy making and the consideration of policy alternatives.  
 
ICRs for recent adjustment lending in Ethiopia.
 
During FY01 and FY02, following the conflict with Eritrea, IDA provided two single tranche adjustment 
credits (the Ethiopia Emergency Recovery Credit and the Ethiopia Structural Adjustment Credit) totaling 
Page  7
$270 million.  These credits helped to stabilize the post-war economy, reallocate public spending to 
poverty targeted sectors, and kick-start public sector management and private sector development reform 
agendas.  The Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) of these operations identified some key lessons 
for policy-based lending support by the Bank.   
 
First,
 technical assistance should accompany the adjustment program in Ethiopia to ensure institutions 
have the capacity to implement new policies and legal frameworks.  This was found to be especially true 
for second generation reforms such as competition policy, investment code, and privatization reforms.  
Second,
 an appropriate balance needs to be struck
—especially in the framework of a PRSC—between 
rewarding the implementation of good policies, signaling the need for better progress, and meeting urgent 
budgetary financing needs. Agreement on a medium-term framework, which distinguishes between policy 
reforms which are likely to be slow-moving and those where early action is feasible, is essential to avoid 
divergent expectations between the Government and its development partners.  
Third,
 
private sector 
development will take time in Ethiopia.  There is a tradition of mistrust between the private sector and the 
Government, overcoming which will require a more open dialogue between Government and the private 
sector around a clearly defined medium-term reform agenda. 
Finally,  
more attention is needed to 
developing the public expenditure management agenda to allow a transparent dialogue around improved 
and more timely budgeting.  
In sum,
 the conclusion appears to be that a medium-term outlook to policy 
reform is essential in Ethiopia and to “allow sufficient time for reforms”. 
 
Alignment to budget year vs. predictability.
 
A
further lesson learned has related to the Government’s preference for timing of delivery of budget 
support/PRSC financing.  At the time of PRSC I preparation, it was envisaged that the preparation time 
for PRSCs II and III would be shortened in order to allow the approval of the financing to be brought in 
line with the beginning of the Ethiopia fiscal year (July 8).  MOFED has indicated, however, that the 
precise alignment of funds availability to the start of the fiscal year is less important than the 
predictability
 of the financing including approximate amounts.  The spirit of the PRSC and budget 
support is to avoid a stop-go approach to financing and policy dialogue while acknowledging that the 
exact amounts of budget support may vary depending on performance with respect to the reform program.  
The Government has indicated that as long as they have reasonable certainty regarding the donor’s 
commitment of JBS funds, actual disbursements can take place up to the end of the second quarter of the 
fiscal year i.e., before end of December.  Accordingly, the timeframe for PRSC II preparation has been 
shortened to approximately seven and a half months (mid-February to end-November 2004) to enable 
processing within this timeframe.  
 
10.  
E
NVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS 
(
INCLUDING PUBLIC CONSULTATION
)
The concept review for Ethiopia’s Second PRSC was held before the effective date for the application of 
OP 8.60 (September 1, 2004).  However, the operation is underpinned by a variety of analytical work, 
most notably a recent Country Environmental Assessment (CEA) and poverty and social impact studies, 
that could be more efficiently integrated in the Board documentation through an application of the new 
operational policy rather than an application of old policies (OD 8.60 and OP 4.01).  This view has been 
endorsed by the Regional Operations Committee on September 15, 2004, as well as the regional 
environmental safegua5rds unit, and OPCS. Given the recent completion of the CEA, a separate 
Environmental Assessment is not required.   
 
11. C
ONTACT POINT
 
Contact: Trina S. Haque 
Page  8
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-5775 
Fax:  (202) 473 8107 
Email: Thaque@worldbank.org
 
