Documc
The Wor:
FOR OFFICIAt
Report No. 9845-BEL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 8, 1991
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank suthodzation.



Currency Eauivalents
(As of January 1, 1991)
Currency Unit - Belizean Dollar (BZ$)
BZ$1.00 - US$0.50
US$1.00 - BZ$2.00
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
School Year
September 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BELCAST   Belize College of Arts, Sciences and Technology
BNSE      Belize National Selection Examination
BSMS      Belize Primary School Monitoring System
BTC       Belize Technical College
BTTC      Belize Teachers College
CDU       Curriculum Development Unit
CEO       Chief Education Officer
CODE      Canadian Organization for Education Development
CXC       Caribbean Examination Council
DEO       District Education Officer
EEC       European Economic Community
COB       Government of Belize
ICB       International Competitive Bidding Procedures
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
ILO       International Labor Organization
IMF       International Monetary Fund
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding Procedures
HIS       Management Information System
MOE       Ministry of Education
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NCE       National Council for Education
ODA       Overseas Development Administration
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PSIP      Public Sector Investment Program
PU        Planning Unit of MOE
SFIP      School Facilities Improvement Program
TCO       Technical Cooperation Officer
TESL      Teaching English as a Second Language
THS       Technical High Schools
TREP      Toledo Rural Education Project
TVE       Technical and Vocational Education
UCB       University College of Belize
UWI       University of the West Indies
VSO       Volunteer Service Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pate
BASIC DATA SHEET ......                                        ...   iii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................. .     .                       iv
1.     THE SECTOR...................                                  .                1
A. Economic Setting .1... . .1
B.  The Education Sector ..........        ... e  .......  .............        2
C.  Issues in Primary Education .              . .........................      5
D. Governnient Strategy....                                                     8
E.  Bank Strategy .........                       ...... .....                  9
II.   THE PROJECT  ............          ..   ........... .. .. ... ......             9
A.  Project Origin ..........0...........                                       9
B. Project Objectives.... ...   10
C.  Project Components ........           ..       .........10
III. PROGRAM COSTS. FINANCING. W-NAGEMENT AND
IMPLEMENTATION..........................                                        18
A. Project Costs and  ninancing  ...18
B.  Procurement ..................                         ............    21
Ct.  Disbursement  .....................   ..............                      24
D.  Project Management and Implementation                .       ......        25
E.  Accounting and Auditing.              ...... . .................           27
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS             ............................                      27
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ......................                    28
This report is based on the findings of preparation missions which visited Belime during
September and November 1990. The missions were financed by the World Bank and the Overseas
Development Administration (ODA). The World Bank missions were comprised of H. Potashnik (Team
Leader, LA3HR) and L. Secco (Consultant/Architect). ODA financed the consultancies of G. Bethel
(Consultant/Educational Assessment), D. Bridges (Consultant/Teacher Education) and P. Penrose
(ConstItant/Education, Finance and Planning). A preappraisal mission was fielded in April 1991
comprising H. Potashnik (Team Leader), E. Dib (Consultant/Architect), P. Penrose (Consultant/
Education, Finance and Planning), and C. Lucas (Consultant, LAMHR).  The project was appraised in
June 1991 by a mission comprising H. Potashnik (Team Leader, LA3MR), B. Wilkinson (LACPT), H.
Ratcliffe (Education Consultant), and K. Lillis, BDD Adviser for the Caribbean, representing ODA.
M. V. Lister, Q. Bui and M. Rodriguez (LA3HR) contributed to the preparation of the report. The
peer reviewers were L. Briggs (EKTPH) and L. Dove (ASTPH).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of tfieir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii -
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1:           The Education System of Belize
Annex 2:           Primary Education Statistics
Annex 3:           U.linistry of Education Organizational Chart
Annex 4:           Educational Expenditures
Annex 5:           Teacher Education Component
Annex 6:           School Facilities Improvement Program (SFIP)) Primary
School Construction Program
Annex 7:           Textbook Program
Annex 8:           Education Planning Unit
Annex 9:           Technical Assistance and Travel and Study Fellowships
Annex 10:          Implementation Schedules
Annex 11:          Project Monitoring Indicators
Annex 12:          Forecasts of Expenditures and Disbursements
Annex 13:          Project Components by Year
Annex 14:          Summary Accounts by Year
Annex 15:          Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
Annex 16:          Financing Plan by Project Components
Annex 17:          Summary Account by Project Components
Annex 18:          Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP:               IBRD No. 17093R1



- iii -
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Data Sheet
DATA               YEAR
A.    GENERAL COUNTRY DATA:
1.    Population Estimate (Thousands)              184                1989
2.    GNP per Capita (US$)                         1610               1989
3.    Area ('000 Square Kilometers)                22                 1989
B.    POPULATION DATA:
1.    Crude Birth R&te (Per 1000)                  36.5               1989
2.    Crude Death Rate (Per 1000)                  6.7                1989
3.    Annual Rate of Population Growth (S]         2.6                1989
Urban                               3.2                1989
4.    Population under 14 years of age (2)         43                 1989
S.    Total Fertility Rate (Births per Woman)   4.83                  1989
6.    Infant Mortality Rate
(Per 1000 Live Births)                      47                 1989
7.    Life Expectancy at Birth (Years)             67.4               1989
C.    EDUCATION DATA:
1. Net Enrollment Rates (%)
Primary Education                           90                  1990
Secondary Education                         50                  1990
Tertiary Education                          33-38               1990
2. Public Education Expenditures:
As a of Total Central Government Budget   21                    1989
As % of GDP                                 5.7                 19b9
In per Capita US$:
Primary Education                     231.5              1989
Secondary Education                   418                1989
Tertiary Education                    1012               1989
% of Total Education Budget spent on:
Primary Education                     59.2               1989
Salaries                       95                  1989
Secondary Education                   24.1               1989
Tertiary Education                    6.6                1989
3. Student/Teacher Ratio                           23:1               1989
4. Illiteracy Rate (Z of pop. 15+)                 8.8                1970
SOURCE:     World Bank, Social Indicators of Development, 1990
Belize Central Statistical Office
UNESCO, Statistical Yearbook, 1990



- iv -
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Belize
Beneficiary:      Ministry of Education
Amount:            US$7.1 million
Terms:            Payable in 17 years, including a 4-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Objectives
and Description:  The proposed project supports the Government's development plans for
primary education for the period 1992-97.  It aims to improve the
quality of instructional inputs in primary schools and increase
student educational achievement levels by pursuing the following
objectives: (a) introducing a new system for the training of primary
school teachers in order to improve the quality and relevance of
teacher training and increase the number of teachers with pro-
fessional certification; (b) improving the quality, availability, and
efficient use of educational facilities and resources for both
teaching and learning; and (c) strengthening the planning and
management of education to enable the Government to develop policies
and implement programs to improve the cost-effectiveness of its
expenditures on education.
The Teacher Education Component would: (a) provide 46 months of
technical assistance to help introduce a new pre- and in-service
training a-stem under which 700 primary school teachers would become
professionally certified, thereby increasing the percentage of
certified teachers from 45 percent to 80 percent over the life of the
project; (b) enhance the quality and relevance of teacher training,
emphasize practical skills for effective instruction in a culturally
and linguistically diverse society, introduce a system of salary
incentives for teachers who complete the various stages of training,
and help establish an in-service teachers training system on a part-
time basis in outlying districts; (c) provide training for principals
as key agents of change and instructional leaders at the school
level; and (d) help strengthen the Belize Teacher Training College
(BTTC) through an institutional twinning arrangement with a teacher
training college abroad, travel a"U study for staff, and civil works
and equipment.
The Education DeveloDment COmDOnent would have two sub-components.
The first is a School Facilities Improvement Program (SFIP) under
which the project would give priority to addressing the problems of
overcrowded classrooms.   It would  support where appropriate,  a
combination of multiple shifts and construction and renovation of 105



-v -
classrooms in both urban and rural schools to relieve overcrowding,
and the renovation, upgrading and construction of 10 principals'
houses to help rural and remote communities attract principals to
those schools. A second would: (a) strengthen the capacity of the
CDU to develop standardized and culturally relevant school curricula
and produce and diseeminate learning materials compatible with the
curriculum and the teaching of English as a serond language; (b)
support the implementation and monitoring of a new textbook loan
scheme to provide all students a basic set of textbooks for use in
school; and (c) help establish an achievement monitoring system for
continuous classroom evaluation for feedback into policy analysis,
teacher training and curriculum/materials development. Approxima ely
50 months of technical assistance would be provided, 18 months of
rellowships and study tours, as well as civil works to expand the
facilities of the CDU and build offices for a new Assessment and
Evaluation cell, books, materials and equipment.
The Planning and Management Compsnent wculd: (a) provide 42 months of
technical assistance to help strengthLen a new educational planning
unit (PU) in MOE; (b) develop a new management information sy7tem and
a school map; and (c) support special studies for planning and policy
making. The component would also provide technical assistance and
in-service training to help MOE strengthen its management of the
education sector, in particular its financial management:   budget
process, budget monitoring and accounting systems.  The component
would include support of MOE's strategy of strengthening regional
management ind support services to teachers and principals through
construction of new facilities and upgrading the resources of three
education centers, now in temporary and inadequate facilities. Books
and equipment would also be providad for the centers. The proposed
project would be managed by a small Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
staffed by Belizeans and located in MOE under the direct supervision
of the Chief Education Officer. The Director of the PIU would manage
the PIU team and coordinate the inputs of the long- and short-term
consultants  financed by ODA.   The Director would also ensure
offective cooperation, provided under the Belize Education Act
between the MOE and the church organizations in implementing project
objectives.
Benefits:         The project would improve the quality and effectiveness of primary
education by: (a) increasing the percentage of certified primary
school teachers from 45 percent to 80 percent; (b) renovating and
building 105 primary school classrooms to relieve overcrowding and
improve the teaching and learning environment; (c) providing to all
primary school children a basic set of textbooks in the classroom;
(d) revising and standardizing primary school curricula and
constructing diagnostic and achievement tests for continuous
classroom evaluation and feedback for policy, teacher training and
curriculum development; and (e) strengthening the planning and
management capacity of the MOE to make needed improvements in
management information, research and analysis, and education and
training of staff.
Riskss            There are two main risks.   The  first relates to the limited
management capacity in MOE to implement the measures needed to



- vi -
improve the quality and efficiency of the education system.   This
risk is addressed by providing support for a PIU under the CEO to
plan and coordinate V:oject implementation with MOE staff and by
making available technical assistance and training to strengthen the
management of government and church schools. TI second risk is that
project achievements may not be sustained after project completion.
To ensure the sustainability of project achievements, MOE would
approve the necessary policies and levels of recurrent budgetary
support for key programs of teacher training, textbook distribution,
and school facilities construction and maintenance.
Estimated Project Costs:          Local      Foreign   Total
-US$ Million-
Project ComDonents:
Teacher Education                  1.35        0.73       2.08
Education Development              3.12        3.37       6.49
Planning & Management              1.02        0.97       1.99
TOTAL BASE COSTS                   5.49        5.07      10.56
Contingencies                      1.04        1.04       2.08
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS a/             6.53        6.11      12.64
a/ Including taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:                    Local      Foreign    Total
-US$ Million-------
IBRD                              2.00         5.13       7.13
Government of Belize              4.24         0.0        4.24
ODA                               0.29         0.98       1.27
Total                             6.53         6.11      12.64
lstimated IBRD Disbursements:
Bank FY                   1992    1993   1994    1995   1996    1997    1998
- US$ Million -
Annual                    0.89    1.03   1.15    1.14   1.03    0.96    0.93
Cumulative               0.89    1.92   3.07    4.21   5.24    6.20    7.13
Rate of Return:    N/A
Map:   IBRD No. 17093R1



BELIZV
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.1         Belize is a small, sparsely populated country with an economy
based on agriculture, incipient tourism and light manufacturing. In 1989 the
national population was around 184,200, occupying an area of about 22,000 km2.
Per capita GDP was US$1,610 in 1989. In 1990 economic performance continued
to be strong. Growth of GDP is expected to reach 7 percent deepite the oil
price shock and declining prices for orange concentrate, one of Belize's
important exports. In the short- to medium.-term, the Belizean economy faces
difficulties. More restricted export markets in 1991 together with a likely
slowdown in investment and oil-induced inflation are likely to limit GDP
growth to 3-4 percent. Pressure on the current account will be sustained.
With traditional preferential markets for sugar, citrus and bananas
increasingly uncertain, the outlook for 1992 and beyond is unclear; the boom
years appear to be over.
1.2         During the 1980s the Belizean population grew at an average rate
of 2.8 percent. Approximately half the population lives in urban centers.
The main feature of the population is that 43 perceat is under 14 years of
age. This demographic characteristic has a heavy impact on the education
sector. Emigration and immigration flows are also important forces affecting
the population. During the 1970S and early 1980s ar. estimated average of
2,000 Belizeans annually emigrated to the United States, and it is generally
held that the numbers of emigrants have increased in more recent years. The
accepted estimate for the number of Belizeans living in the United States is
40,000 to 50,000. The instability of the Central American region has
generated a flow of refugees to Belize from neighboring countries such as El
Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras. The official estimate of the refugee
population in mid-1989 was 5,100 with an additional 25,000 economic migrants
and displaced persons.
1.3         Although no estimates of income and wealth distribution enist,
economic reoources seem to be more evenly distributed in Belize than in most
of the other countries in the region. The ethnic compot'ition of the
populatioa is diverse, yet no single ethnic or cultural group is dominant.
The population includes various groups of which the most numerous are Creoles
(40 percent) and Mestizos (33 percent). Smaller groups are largely the
Garifuna (Black Carib), May& Indians, Mennonites, and East Indians. There is
considerable linguistic diversity among the population. English is the
official language, but each group also uses its own language, i.e., Creole,
Spanish, Mayan, and Garifuna. This linguistic polyglot creates institutional
problems in the early years as the pupils used to speaking their mother tongue
are taught in English.



- 2 
1.4         No regular data is published on unemploymunt, but the economically
active population was estimated to be 56,600 in 1987. Broken down by economic
sector, the largest employers ate the agriculture sector with a declining
share of about 32 percent of the active labor force; agroprocessing,
manufacturing and transportation, with around 26 percent; and the Government
sector, which employs approximately one-quarter of the active labor force.
The unemployment rate appears to have remained stable since 1980, but only due
to emigration. Male unemployment averages 9-11 percent but is higher in the
northern part of the country and in Belize City (12-13 percent). There are no
well-based estimates of labor market requirements or of the qualificationts of
the labor force. On the demand side, although recent reporto concurred in
their assessment that c-portunities for skilled and technical workers in
Belize will continue to expand with economic growth, the economy has generated
few new job opportunities for technical or skilled workers. Nor is there
evidence that foreign or domescic investment projecta were aborted because of
the lack of qualified workers.  There appear to )e ample semi-skilled and
skilled construction workers for future investments in infrastructure and
tourism. On the supply side, the central issue is one of quality of education
and training. Given the relative youth of the population and the still low
average levels of schooling, solid progress in developing  8asic education
reWainb a prerequisite for sustained economic growth.
B. Education Sector
1.5         Education system.  Belize's education system (Annex 1) consists of
eight years of primary education. There is also a small pre-school program.
At the completion of the primary level, students take the Belize National
Selection Examination (BNSE) which determines their eligibility for entrance
into secondary school, where places are limited. Roughly 60 percent of those
taking the examination go on to the secondary level. Secondary education
consists of four years of general studies. Technical-vocational training of
varying lengths is offered to students following primary school or after three
years of high school. At the tert .ary level, which includes sixth form,
several institutions provide two-year courses of academic and technical
training in business studies, agriculture, engineering trades, and other
professional fields. University studies are offered in Belize at the
University College of Belize which offers first degree programs in business
and education. However, most students attend universities abroad, mainly in
the United States or at the University of the West Indies (UWI).
1.6         Enrollment.  Enrollment at the primary level ir Belize compares
favorably with other Central American and Caribbean countries. An estimated
46,023 pupils were enrolled in government and government-aided primary schools
in the school year 1990-91 (Annex 2). This means that about 90 percent of the
estimated total population aged 5-14 attended school. Half of all young
children progress to secondary school, and between two-thirds and three-
quarters of these are thought to complete their studies. Male and female
enrollments are about evenly distributed.  The e-'sence suggests that some 80
percent of children beginning primary sohool progress through the eight
grades. This relatively low drop-out rate may hide the fact that students
leaving the system are being replaced by the growing immigrant student
population. However, this mightt only be confirmed after HOE begins collecting



dropout statistics. Belize does nct collect statistics on repetition either,
but from estimates of gross progression rates which are in thte range of 90
percent, it would appear that very few students repeat an academic vear at the
primary level. Population growth and migration are projected to increase
school enrollments by approximately 3 percent annually over the next five
years; government education planning will take this increase into account.
1.7         Because of Belize's widely dispersed population, 68 percent (160)
of the 235 government and government-aided primary schools are classified as
rural, 34 of which are in remote outlying areas of the country. Rural schools
account for 47 percent of total enrollment. About a quarter of all rural
primary schools (41) have fewer than 50 pupils enrolled, and a further quarter
count enrollment between 50 and 100 pupils. The aggregate student teacher
ratio is about 23 to 1, Thia includea teachers receiving training full-time;
if these teachers are excluded, the ratio of studento to active teacherc is 26
to 1, whicb is reasonable in view of geographic factors. Teachers and
principals in rural areas face speclal challenges such as living in the rural
environment, teaching children of ,.everal grades in the same class, and
teaching English as a second language; the first language is Spanish, Creole,
or Kekchi/Maya for many rural et,dents. Ikural and remote schools are also the
most disadvantaged in terms of certified teachers (35 pe-cent) and textbooks
and other learning materials.
1.8         Management and Policy.  The Ministry of Education, Youth, Sports
and Culture (MICE) is responsible for managing the national education system,
although it shares responsibilities with churches of various denominations in
a unique partnership with regard to primary and secondary education (para.
1.10). MOE is small, consisting of 12 professional staff in the headquarters
in Belmopan and the districts, and another three persons based in Belize City
(Annex 3). While authority in all educational matters rests with the Minister
of Education, considerable responsibility is delegated to the P':rmanert
Secretary and the Chief Education Officer (CEO). The operational capacity of
the MOE is limited by shortzomings in human resources, planning, financial
management, and program monitoring including management information.
1.9         Policy decisions on education are made by the Minister with the
support of the National Council for Education (NCE). The Council consists of
the CEO and 15 members appointed by the Minister from among private, church
and labor organizations. The NCE has been lar&.ly inactive, but the present
government has reactivated it and made it more representative of those groups
concerned with education. It also plans to make full use of the technical
assistance in the proposed operation to support MOE in strengthening the
policy-making process so that policy statements can be translated into
realistic operational plans and programs based on financial and management
capacities. MOE has already begun to redefine its education policy framework.
In April 19;1, it adopted a new Education Act and is preparing education rules
which clarify and strengthen the role of MOE in mana.ing ths education system
in partnership with the churches.
1.10        Church-State PartneTshiD.  A key feature of the Belize educ4tional
system is the partnership between different religious denominations and the
Government in the delivery of primary and secondary educational services.



The rale of the churches in education and their rolationsahip with the
Goverrnment was first formalized in the Educational. Ordinance of 1962, which
has since boen amended periodically, moe.t recently in April 1991. Under the
partnership agreement, the Covernment ectablishes educational objectives, pays
teachers' salaries, contributes half the costs of fneilities and their
mwauntenance, develops curricula and administrative standardii, tra-ins teachers
stnd admini8iters selection examinations at. the end of primary school.. The
chur2lh organizations are responsible for managing their schools, school
maintenance and all personnel mattero. As a consequence of the new Education
Act-, the role of the CEO is strergthoned in managing the education system,
although conoultali.oll with church nchool ffanaggomentn oni major polioies in also
renqu;.r(d.
1.11        The church-state partnership for providing educatiln has tgenerally
been fruitful,.  The arrangement has saved public sector resources by
leveraging government spending on education and has promoted pluralism and
diversity in a sociologically complex society. However, the partnership has
beeni more the product of spontaneous developments, with the Government
reacting to church initiatives, rather than of a carefully planned strategy to
fully e ake advantage of the comparative strengths of the MOE and church
organizations in the delivery of education services. The project will provide
MOE the opportunity to strengthen the effectiveness of the church-state
partnership in education by effectively involving church managers in the
planning, implementation and monitoring of project activities. MOE plans to
include church managers as members of the Project Management Committee and the
School Facilities Improvement Program Committee, and to encourage their
participation in implementing all project activities. It also intends to
include them -in the project's management training and team building workshops
where the issues of church-state partnership can be explored and agreements
reached on strengthening cooperation in support of education.
1.12        Educa6ivn Finance.  The US$15.1 million level of education
expenditures (1989) reflects the importance given to education by the current
government. The share of public education expenditure., in GDP and in the
central government budget for 1989 were 5.7 percent ana 21 percent
respectively. Despite the important role played bv the church schools in the
educational system, the bulk of financing comes from the central government.
In the 1980s Belize's educational expenditures were high among countries in
Latin America and the Caribbean. The education sector, however, receives a
modest 4.7 percent of the Government's public investment program annually.
This share, equivalent to US$0.9 million (1990 US dollars), must be at least
doubled during the decade in order for MOE to meet growing requirements for
rn airing, expanding and maintaining primary school facilities and supplying
tk -books. The distribution of MOE expenditures is generally appropriate. In
1919, about 60 percent of the total educational budget was allocated to
primary education, equivalent to a per capita expenditure of US9226 per
student. Abo-t 24.1 percent of the budiet went to secondary or US$418 per
student; and 6.6 percent or US$1,012 per student went to tertiary education
(Annex 4). Only seven percent of total expenditures is spent on admin-
istration.  About 95 percent of the primary education budget is spent on
salaries.



I-  
C. Issues in Primary EdiLcation
1.13        In order to improve primary education--having attained relatively
high rates of enrollment retention and progression--the Government must
improve the quality of education, enhance educational resources, and lncreace
the effectiveness of educational management. Belizean authorities generally
acknowledge--albeit without comprehenisive hard data--that the education system
suffers from low quality performance. Poor quality is evidenced by low levels
of reading ability, English comprehension and know¢ledge of math among primary
school graduates. Even the more capable students--those who gain access to
secondary schools--are ill-prepared for work at the first year level. There
are many factors accountable for the system's poor performance. The system
has a serious shortage of adequately trained teachers, most primary students
do not have access to a basic set of textbooks, teachers do not follow a
standard curriculum and generally lack the minimum necessary instructiorn)
materials for teaching, the system is not meeting the early primary education
needs of Belize's non-English speaking children, the system lacks instruments
for assessment and evaluation of school performance in order to identify
needed improvements and student achievements, and most primary school
facilities are overcrowded and/or in need of expansion or repair. MOE's
operational capacity to address these problems is limited by staff size and
budget resources. However, there is considerable scope for improving primary
education in the years ahead, provided MOE improves its education planning and
management and adopts a clear set of policies which can be translated into
realistic and affordable operational plans and programs. These needs are
discussed more fully below.
1.14        Primary School Teachers.  Only about 50 percent of Belize's 1,941
primary school teachers are qualified by MOE standards, which require three
years of post-secondary training, including one year of practice teaching.
The majority of teachers have received no specialized teacher training.
Roughly two-thirds of the teaching force is under 30 years of age. The
limited prospects of receiving training and salary increments have contributed
to demoralization of the teaching cadre and attrition from the teaching
service. Nevertheless, this age profile indicates that training teachers
represents a good long term investment in eeucation quality improvement. The
Belize Teachers College (BTTC) provides teacher training for primary school
teachers, but the training is mainly academic and theoretical with
insufficient attention paid to classroom teaching skills. BTTC also has a
shortage of qualified instructors and teaching resources. Until recently,
there was no plan to address the shortage of trained teachers and limited
training resources. There were also no incentives for good teachers; salaries
were below those of other civil servants with similar training. Government
approved a salary increase in 1988 which appears to place teachers in a more
favorable position within the civil service. However, working conditions in
rural areas are not comfortable. The recruitment of teachers for assignments
in rural areas is especially difficult because of inadequate housing. MOE
would like to introduce a new teacher training system to handle the backlog of
untrained teachers.  In 1990, BTTC introduced a new une-year pre- and in-
eervice teacher training course to expedite teacher training. The proposed



project would assist MOE in establishing a new teacher training system for
upgrading existing teachers and training new teachers for primary education.
1.15        Textbooks and Instructional Materials.  Most students do not have
access to a basic set of textbooks for math, reading, and language, few have
the use of textbooks for science and social studies, and fewer still can
obtain books for reading enjoyment from their schools. Primary textbooks are
not standardized, and since selection is determined by each school principal,
a wide variety is being used in the schools. With few exceptions, textbooks
are imported, and prices are generally high. Parents are responsible for
purchasing textbooks for their children. This means that students from low-
income households cannot afford to obtain textbooks, even where they are
available for purchase. In rural and remote areas, textbooks are generally
n-.t available. MOE has not had a textbook policy that has addressed these
issues until quite recently. In December 1990, the Minister of Education
approved an initial policy on textbooks which addresses some of the key
textbook issues. A textbook committee was also appointed to provide guidance
on future policies and programs to deal with textbook issues. Since 1989,
Government has been implementing a textbook project funded by the European
Economic Community (EEC) and administered by Ranfurly Library Service which
has enabled MOE to import 108,000 textbooks and sell them to parents at highly
subsidized prices. If the project is to realize its full potential, MOE will
need to make improvements in the book distribution system and devise a plan to
provide textbooks on a loan basis to students of low-income households. It
will also need to develop a sustainable longer-term textbook program which
will provide primary school students with a basic set of textbooks.
1.16        Curriculum ARplication and Development.  The primary school
curricula used in Belize were developed during the late 1970s and have
undergone revisions and updating over the years. The curriculum guides are
generally well prepared, although they require revisions and updating to
incorporate new learning objectives and facilitate teaching and assessment.
The science curriculum especially needs to be revised to make it less academic
and to integrate health, agriculture and environmental studies curricula.
Training and dissemination activities carried out by MOE's Curriculum
Development Unit (CDU) and the BTTC have had some success in familiarizing
teachers with the curricula. However, these efforts have not been at the
level required to ensure that the curricula are followed in primary school
teaching. MOE needs to develop a policy for curriculum development and for
training teachers to use its curriculum guides. It also needs to ensure that
textbooks approved for use in the schools support curriculum goals and are
culturally sensitive to Belize. MOE plans to develop diagnostic tests based
on the curriculum to assess teaching and learning in the classroom and to take
remedial action based on the results. To help the CDU achieve its goals, the
project would provide technical assistance and provide support for staff
upgrading, civil works and equipment for providing curriculum guides and
teaching materials.
1.17        Language of Instruction.  The multilingual composition of the
Belize population causes instructional problems for students and teachers in
the early years of primary schooling.  Children whose mother tongue is not
English are confronted with English as the language of instruction.  For these
children, the first years of schooling are crucial for making the transition
to English if they are to benefit from school at all.  The failure of many



non-English speaking children to understand the language used in the classroom
contributes to poor student performance. MOE has attempted to address this
issue in several ways. The CDU has produced Teaching English as a Second
Language (TESL) readers with teaching handbooks for three grade levels, and
has conducted in-service training courses on TESL for a corps of teachers.
MOE has also undertaken the Toledo Rural Education Project (TREP) which aims
to produce educational materials and train teachers to work with the
disadvantaged children in remote Maya/Kekchi villages in the Toledo district.
MOE needs to evaluate its TESL instructional programs in the schools and to
develop TESL readers for the use of early grade levels. The BTTC also needs
to re-examine its instruction in TESL for teachers in order to better equip
them for teaching the Language Arts curriculum.
1.18        Assessment and Evaluation.  There is no standardized testing in
primary education in Belize. Schools prepare their own end of year tests
which are used in order to promote students. Failure rates of these tests are
low and few students repeat an academic year. It is generally recognized that
these tests do not provide teachers, administrators, and parents with reliable
information which would permit them to Judge the effectiveness of Belize's
education system and to adopt measures to address deficiencies. MOE developed
and pilot tested diagnostic tests in language and numeracy at the primary
level in 1990, and from the results, it is clear that more time and resources,
both financial and technical, are needed to develop tests of acceptable
quality and reliability. The Belize National Selection Examination (BNSE),
given after eight years of schooling, serves as the basis for selecting
students for secondary school. For those students not selected, it also
serves as a school leaving certificate. MOE would like to modify the BNSE so
it may serve both as a primary school achievement and secondary school
selection examination. The academically rigorous Caribbean Examination
Council (CXC) examinations are not presently well suited for measuring the
achievement levels of the majority of Belizean secondary school students; the
Government would like to introduce a secondary school leaving certificate
examination, to be taken concurrently with the CXC examinations.
1.19        School Facilities.  Many of Belize's 236 primary school
facilities are in need of either repair, replacement, or extensions to relieve
overcrowding. An MOE survey conducted during project preparation revealed
that: (a) overcrowding is severe in both urban and rural schools. At least
75 additional classrooms are currently required to relieve overcrowding; and
(b) about 60 classrooms need to be replaced; another 90 classrooms require
major repairs and many more require minor repairs. The costs of meeting the
current needs is estimated at US$6 million and it is thought that a further
US$11 million will be called for in the next five years. These estimated
capital investment requirements are beyond what Belize can currently afford.
MOE spent only US$0.5 million in each of the last two years on school
construction and renovation. Church managements are believed to have roughly
matched the figure. The Caribbean Development Bank has also provided some
funding. However, it is clear that the work done has not nearly met all of
the needs. MOE now recognizes the importance of beginning to address the more
urgent needs for improving school facilities. To this end, the proposed
project would help establish a School Facilities Improvement Program (SFIP) to
mobilize and co-finance the cost of school improvements with the managements
of the denominational schools and the respective communities. MOE also plans
to initiate a pilot scheme to reduce overcrowding in selected schools through



- 8 -
multiple shifts. Belize has a school mainte:uance system which should be
improved to increase cost-effectiveness and accountability. Approximately
US$150,000 was spent annually by MOE on school maintenance over the past three
years. Finally, due to population shifts, Belize needs to rationalize school
locations to the extent feasible, merging some under-attended schools, closing
others, and building new facilities for children who live beyond a reasonable
distance from school.
1.20        Plannina and Manazement.  MOE's operational capacity is limited by
shortcomings in planning and program monitoring, including management
information, financial planning, and budget control. Previous attempts to
establish a data base for educational planning and management have had limited
success. The present data base on education is poor and unreliable and needs
to be replaced by a simpler and more manageable one. MOE also lacks a school
map necessary for planning new facility construction. Following a recommend-
ation from the World Bank, MOE established a small Planning Unit (PU) in 1990
which is responsible for collecting and analyzing information on education for
planning and management purposes. A major output of the PU has been a Five-
Year Plan for Education. In addition, MOE has a small professional staff
which is responsible for a wide range of activities. Its managers are
overburdened with day-to-day administration and troubleshooting and have had
little or no time to plan and manage change. Decision making is highly
centralized and implementation capacity at both the district and the school
level is underutilized. There is also insufficient coordination and
collaboration among key units and between the MOE and the managers of church
schools.
1.21        In order to achieve the proposed education reforms and
improvements at the school level, MOE needs to strengthen the capacity of its
headquarters' management team, District Education Officers (DEOs), church
school managers, and school principals. These officials are collectively
responsible for delivering school administrative, supervisory, and educational
support services, as well as for promoting effective community participation
in the schools. MOE also needs to upgrade the facilities of some of its
District Education Centers, which serve both as offices for the DEOs and
teacher resource centers. The increased decentralization of service delivery
(textbooks, teacher training, teacher supervision, curriculum orientation, and
data collection) will require MOE to rationalize the planning and management
responsibilities and support functions centered around the District Education
Centers.
D. Government Strategy
1.22        The Government's Education Plan for the period 1991-95 proposes to
expand educational opportunity and make qualitative improvements in
educational services in keeping with the proposed project. Specifically, it
aims to expand and upgrade educational facilities and infrastructure,
substantially increase the number of certified teachers in the education
system and improve their training. It also plans to provide teachers with
improved incentives to work in rural areas and to develop a posting policy
which would increase the number of trained teachers in rural areas.
Curriculum and examination improvements are envisaged as are plans to
rationalize the cost and availability of textbooks and increase their local
production. Government also proposes to improve the facilities and staffing



- 9 -
of district education centers to enable better supervision and support of
primary schools. A high priority is placed on improving planning and
management in the sector including providing training for school principals
who are at the front line in managing the education system.
E. Bank Strategy
1.23        The Bank's cow-itry assistance strategy and program of assistance
to Belize has been aimed at: (a) supporting the Government's efforts to
develop Belize's basic infrastructure in order to facilitate effective
utilization of the country's vast natural resources; (b) assisting in the
development of Belize's human resources, including institution-building needs
that are critical for sustained economic growth; and (c) promoting the
development of the private sector as the principal engine of economic growth.
The Bank has made four loans to Belize. The first in 1983 was for a Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project which is now fully disbursed. The
Bank's on-going operations comprise a Power Development Project, a Second Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project and an Agricultural Credit and Export
Development Project. Consistent with the above strategy, the Bank's future
program of assietance will consist of the proposed Primary Education
Development Project, a Power Project, Municipal Infrastructure Project and a
Forestry Development Project. The proposed operation will support the human
resources development objectives by improving the quality of primary
education.
1.24        Key lessons learned from previous Bank experierce in the Caribbean
region and in the primary education subsector have been incorporated into the
design of the proposed project. First, small countries need a good deal of
technical assistance, as is provided in this operation, to supplement the very
limited administrative and technical manpower available for project imple-
mentation. An institutional twinning arrangement with a School of Education
in the United Kingdom and long- and short-term consultancies and training are
provided for with co-financing from ODA. Second, the introduction of
education reforms is a complex and lengthy process requiring strong and
innovative leadership b:' the M4inistry of Education in partnership with other
public and private groups at all levels of the socie-y. The proposed project
has a strong management and institution building component to strengthen MOE's
leadership, improve collaboration between government and church managements,
and upgrade the administrative and instructional capacity of school
principals. Third, the sustainability of improvements in teacher education,
curriculum development, textbook availability, assessment, and school
facilities requires that governments make increased provisions in their
education budgets for non-salary expenditures. The Belize Government has
agreed to steadily increase its annual budget allocations for these
expenditures during project implementation which should greatly enhance the
prospects of sustaining these improvements after the project is completed.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Oriain
2.1         The proposed project would be the first Bank oporation in the
education sector. It grows out of a Bank Education Sector Review (Report No.



10 -
7505a-BEL) dated January 24, 1989. The Government initiated project
preparation in March 1990. It appointed a Coordinator for project preparation
and three task forces. The Coordinator and task forces were assisted by an
ODA consultant and short-term education specialists. Bank missions in May,
September and November 1990 contributed to project preparation. Pre-appraisal
took place in April 1991 and appraisal in June 1991. ODA participated in both
the pre-appraisal and appraisal missions.
B. Project ObJectives
2.2         The project aims to improve the quality of instructional inputs
in primary schools and increase student educational achievement levels by
pursuing the following objectivest
(a) introducinig a new system for the training of primary school
teachers in order to improve the quality and relevance of teacher
training and increase the number of teachers with professional
certification;
(b) improving the quality, availability and efficient use of
educational facilities and resources for teaching, learning and
assessment in primary schools; and
(c) strengthening the planning and management of education to enable
the Government to develop policies and implement programs to
improve the cost-effectiveness of its expenditures on primary
education.
2.3         Prolect Description.  The project has three inter-related
components. The first focuses on improvements in the teacher training system
and upgrading the knowledge, skills, and overali zompetence of primary school
teachers. The second component consists of support for improving the
classroom environment, distributing textbooks, improving curricula, and
designing and implementing new examinations for diagrosis and measurement of
student achievement and remediation of learning difficulties. The third aims
to improve educational planning and management through the introduction of new
methods and systems for monitoring, budgeting and evaluating educational
programs.
C. Project Components
Teacher Education Component (US$2.50 million)
2.4         Strengthening the Teacher Training System.  The proposed project
would assist MOE in introducing a new system for the training of primary
school teachers which would: (a) increase the number of professionally
certified teachers in the primary schools; (b) enhance the relevance and the
quality of teacher training; (c) provide adequate salary incentives for
teachers who successfully complete training; (d) improve efficiency in the
training of teachers; and (e) train principals to provide instructional
leadership at the school level. The project would also strengthen the
capacity of BTTC through structural reorganization and staff development to



- 11 -
introduce a new system of teacher training operating part-time and full-time
(Annex 5).
(a) Increasing certified teachers. The proposed project would help
introduce a new training system under which approximately 700
primary school teachers would become professionally certified,
thereby increasing the percentage of certified teachers in the
system from 45 percent to 80 percent over the life of the project.
(b) Enhancing quality and relevance. The project would also enhance
the quality and relevance of teacher training by providing
technical assistance for course design, instructional materials
preparation and upgrading of the BTTC teaching staff. Pre- and
in-service courses (both part-time and full-time) would place
greater emphasis than at present on developing teaching skills.
These would include multi-grade teaching, classroom management,
methods of teaching the syllabi and familiarization with
curricula, and assessment and evaluation of pupils' learning.
Advanced training courses for certified teachers and principals
would concentrate on higher level skills required by the system.
(c) Improving incentives. The new teacher training system would
provide salary incentives for teachers who complete the various
stages of training. The total cost of these salary increases will
result in an estimated annual net increase in the recurrent budget
of only 1-2 percent during the project. This relatively modest
increase is due to the fact that the bulk of teachers trained will
be trained at the intermediate level and will be piaced on a scale
lower than the current scale for teachers with advanced training,
and because the effect of part-time upgrading will be to stagger
salary increases over two years.
(d) Improvinz efficiency. One of the main objectives behind the
design of the new system is to reduce reliance on full-time in-
service training to produce trained teachers. The current system
requires that teachers be taken out of the system on full salary
for two years to undergo training: it also has had high rates of
repetition and drop-out. implying that many teachers have taken
more than two years to complete the training. The new system
introduced under the project would phase out entry of unqualified
recruits into the teaching profession, reducing over the medium
term the burden on the in-service system of upgrading teachers.
The length of the full-time in-service course would be reduced to
one year. Many teachers would train part-time and thus not leave
the system during training.
(e) Training DrinciDals. The project would support in-service
training for about 236 primary school principals. As the key
agents of change at the school level, principals must adopt new
approaches to analyzing and responding to problems and concerns of
teachers in the field, and develop a wider view of the teacher's
role in understanding the community and the social issues which



- 12 -
lie therein. They must learn to develop their owrL positive
responses rather than the more traditional normative responses to
teachers' daily concerns and activities. The overall emphasis is
therefore on developing the principals' professional sense of
identity and enhancing their instructional leadership role.
2.5         Planning and Delivery of Teacher Training.  BTTC is responsible
for planning and delivering all primary school teacher training, part-time and
full-time. Teacher orientation workshops for the adoption of new prim.ary
curricula are conducted in conjunction with the CDU. BTTC will be reorganized
and strengthened to increase its planning and delivery capability. An
additional Vice Principal-Director of District Programs will be appointed to
manage in-service training for teachers in the districts, and field
supervision and lecturer vacancies will be filled. The posts of Heads of
Department for Resources and Examinations will be established to respectively
improve materials production and delivery and teacher assessment. Six other
staff members will take responsibility for the delivery of part-time training
in the districts; one will be assigned per district. The part-time courses
will be supervised and delivered in the districts with the assistance of
District Teams. These will comprise about five members per team (depending on
the district) and include experienced principals and teachers as well as
district Education Officers. Each team will be coordinated by the BTTC
district coordinator. Course planning and materials preparation will take
place at BTTC, and the part-time courses will be given four days each month at
regional education centers plus another three weeks during the school summer
recess. The commonality of course content between the in-service and pre-
service courses will facilitate preparation of the syllabi and course modules.
The Planning Unit of the MOE will determine the intake of the pre-service
course in accordance with estimates of net new teacher requirements.
2.6         Prolect Assistance.  Through ODA, the proposed project would
provide 24 months of technical assistance from a Teacher Education Specialist
to support the teacher training component, and six months for the planning
and supervision of in-service district training courses. Three volunteers
from the Volunteer Service Organization (VSO) of the United Kingdom, with
appropriate qualifications and experience in education, would also be
provided for a period of 24 months each, to support in-service training in the
districts. The project would also support 14 months of overseas travel and
study for staff from BTTC and other training staff to update and consolidate
their skills in distance learning, management of teacher training, pupil
assessment and professional development, and learning resource management.
This assistance to BTTC will form part of a package of technical support,
intersecting teacher education, curriculum development, ana assessment and
education planning, delivered through a U.K school of education. The project
would, in addition, cover the costs of civil works, instructional materials,
vehicles, and equipment for BTTC. Prior to negotiations, the Government
confirmed it had approved the proposed changes to the system of teacher
training, certification, and remuneration developed for the project (para. 5.1
(a)).



- 13 -
Education Development Component (USS.75 million)
2.7         School Facilities Im rovement Proaram (SFIP).  The project would
support a SFIP under which MOE wou2d address the problems of overcrowded
classrooms and the repair and maintonance needs of primary school buildings in
urban and rural areas. MOE has developed policies and procedures for the
operation of the SFIP, acceptable to the Bank. The survey of school
facilities conducted during project preparation has led to the identification
of facilities in need of attention. The proposed project would support the
civil works, equipment and furnituro required for school construction, repair
and renovation. The SFIP would give first priority to addressing the
overcrowding problem in schools whicL' also need major repairs. To this end it
would support construction of about nine new; schools with a total of 55 new
classrooms in both urban and rural schools. Eleven existing schools under
renovation/ extension would receive 50 new classrooms. In additio , four
existing principal houses would be renovated/upgraded, and six new principal
houses would be constructed. Annex 6 lists the schools which have been given
priority status in the SPIP. This list will be updated regularly in the light
of improvements made in school facilities.
2.8         A small committee under the chairmanship of the CEO would review
and approve each proposal for renovation and repair of schools under the SFIP.
The Committee would be appointed by the Minister of Education and include
inter alia representatives of the managements of both government and church
schools. MOE would contract out the civil works to firms and individuals,
utilizing the services of an engineering/architectural firm for tendering, bid
evaluation, supervision of works, and related tasks.
2.9         In conjunction with new investments for improving school
facilities, MOE plans to increase its annual allocation for operations and
maintenance from the current level of US$150,000 equivalent to US$3009000
equivalent beginning in 1993. At negotiations, the Government agreed to
sustain a minimum annual allocation of US$300,000 equivalent in real terms in
each fiscal year for operations and maintenance of school facilities beginning
on April 1, 1993 and continuing throughout project implementation, and to
prepare an operations and maintenance plan for all primary schools, acceptable
to the Bank, by December 31, 1992 (para. 5.2 (a)).
2.10        Multiple-Shift Schooling.  In addition to investing in school
facilities improvement, MOE will experiment with multiple-shift schooling as
an alternative for dealing with some overcrowded schools. To this end, it
will design and implement a pilot scheme of multiple-shift schooling in the
school year beginning September 1993 involving three schools where overcrowded
classrooms are a serious obstacle to effective teaching and learning. The
multiple-shift pilot scheme would be designed by the Planning Unit in
consultation with parents, teachers, and other interested parties and its
economic and social costs and benefits would be evaluated. The project would
provide technical assistance if needed, to help design and evaluate the
scheme. Decisions on investing in building additional classrooms in these and
other schools will take into account the outcome of the scheme.



-14 -
2.11        Curriculum DeveloRment and Application.  The project would help
strengthen the capacity of the CDU to develop standardized school curricula
and produce and disseminate learning materials compatible with the curricula.
Through technical assistance and staff training, it would help CDU over the
next five years to achieve the following five main objectives:
(a) prepare a curriculum policy for primary education for approval by
the NCE to guide the preparation of curricula and the training of
teachers in their use;
(b) update selectively the primary school curricula in math, language
arts, social studies, and science, and develop curriculum guides
or schemes of work for all grade levels as well as for multi-grade
instructional situations;
(c) produce and disseminate revised teaching guides and instructional
materials as well as socially/culturally relevant TESL readers and
other materials not available for purchase;
(d) help prepare and conduct pre- and in-service training courses for
teachers, principale and other education officers to ensure that
the curriculum and learning materials are appropriately used in
the school; and
(e) develop a language arts program for use in teaching English and
other subjects to students who learn English as a second language.
2.12        The project would provide 30 months of technical assistance to the
CDU by a General Educator (24 months) and short-term curriculum and educ-
ational materials development specialists. A TESL specialist would assist MOE
to complete on-going projects of materials development and training in
language arts. The training would be integrated in the pre- and in-service
training courses for teachers being developed under the teacher training
component of the project. In addition, CDU would receive specialist
assistance in textbook writing, design, and printing for locally produced
learning materials. The project would also help CDU to improve the printing,
storing, and distribution of learning materials by expanding its current
facilities, which are deemed inadequate, and providing additional equipment
and a vehicle. The Canadian Organization for Education Development (CODE) has
agreed to provide CDU essential equipment as a parallel contribution to the
project. Finally, 18 months of training and travel and study are provided for
CDU staff to visit other education institutions abroad to learn about
curriculum development activities and resources in other countries.
2.13        Textbooks and Teachina Materials (Annex 7).  The proposed project
would assist MOE in implementing a new textbook program in support of the
Government's newly adopted goal of providing every child in primary school
access to a basic set of textbooks. It would also ensure the sustainability,
with modifications, of the "Books for Belize" textbook distribution program
undertaken with EEC/Ranfurly Library Service which will terminate after 1993.
The new program would function as a textbook loan scheme under which MOE would
initially provide textbooks in math, reading, and English to all primary



15
school children in pairs at a modest rental cost per book. The income dorived
from the loan scheme would be kept by each school rather tharn transferred to a
central fund9 and would be used by the principal and the teachers to purchase
other books and educational resource materiAIs for their schools.  Studerts
who could afford to purchase their own set of textbooks would be encouraged to
do so, thereby improving the student to textbook ratio. To facilitate the
implementation of the program, MOE has already adopted important policy
measures such as approving a limited list of textbooks for use in the schools.
This list would limit the choices open to teache- s and principals and enable
MOE to purchase textbooks in bulk from local and foreign publishers at a large
discount. The ultimate goal is to improve the textbook availability ratio and
lend textbooks to all students. The Government has agreed to adopt a policy
for permitting e-"h school to use textbook loan fees collected from parents to
purchase additional textbooks or other instructional materials. At
negotiat½ons, assurances were obtained that this policy would be adopted by
May 3], 1992 (para. 5.2 (b)).
2.14        The proposed project would support the textbook loan scheme over
five Jears, by assisting MOE both in purchasing sets of textbooks from local
and foreign publishers and in distributing them to primary school students
through the Government Bookstore. The proposed project would support the
textbook loan scheme by assisting MOE in phasing in budgetary support for
textbook purchases over a five-year period at the rate of 20% annually
beginning in the 1992/93 school year. It would also provide short-term
technical assistance to MOE to conduct studies of alternatives for reducing
the costs of textbooks through bulk purchasing, savings in printing and
reprinting, and cost-effective shipping and distribution. The estimated cost
of the scheme in the first five years including all contingencies would be
roughly US$1.25 million. By the sixth year, MOE's support of the textbook
program would increase to roughly US$250,000 annually, representing about 3
percent of the cost per primary school student (US$225). In addition, ODA
will provide book aid in order to improve access of the primary schools to
classroom texts and general readers as well as teacher education books for the
education resource centers in the districts. VSO will provide 24 months of
technical assistance to the Government Book Store to design, implement and
manage a distribution system and book rental scheme.
2.15        Examination Reform and Assessment.  The project would provide
technical assistance, training, and other support to MOE for the planning and
implementation of reforms of its examination system. In order to plan and
implement these reforms, MOE has created a new Examinations Unit which will be
staffed by two professionals and administrative support personnel. As a first
priority, MOE will begin work on the development of diagnostic tests to
measure student achievement in math and reading at the junior and middle
levels of primary schools. The diagnostic test results would provide the
baseline for measuring the p-ogress achieved during the next five years and
afterwards in improving the quality and achievement levels of primary
education. The project would assist MOE in introducing improvements in the
ENSE and in developing a national secondary school leaving examination as a
complement to the CXC. The assistance of the General Educator and twelve
months of short-term assessment specialists are provided under the project to
inter alia: (a) help plan, implement, and interpret diagnostic and achievement



16 
tests; (b) organize and conduct workohops to train teams of item writers in
science, mathematics, English, Spanish, aQud the humanities; (c) develop a
system fo- procossing the national examinations on a microcomputer; and (d)
help plan anid implement an extenoivr, public awarenese-raising campaign to keep
the public informed as to the purpose and nature of examination reform in
Belize. The project would call upon the staff of the CXC for technical
assistance in planning improvements in the BNSE and designing the national
secondary school leaving examination. The project would further provide
fifteen months of short-term overseas training to the staff of the cell in the
principles and practices of assessment. Finally, the project will cover the
costs of civil worko, furniture, and oquipment for the offices of the new
Examinations Unit.
Planning and Management Component (US$2.39 million)
2.16        This component consists of support to MOE in three areas:
(a) establishment of an Education Planning Unit; (b) strengthening MOE
management; and (c) building up education resource centers in the districts.
Each of these sub-components is described below.
2.17        Establishment of an Education Planning Unit (Annex 8).  The
project would help strengthen a small Education Planning Unit which was
established by MOE in 1990. The unit is currently headed by the Deputy CEO in
MOE who is assisted by one junior planning officer. A second officer at a
senior level (Education Officer-Planning) will be recruited by MOE before the
end of 1991. An ODA-financed Technical Cooperation Officer (TCO) statis-
tician has been working in the unit since September 1990 assisting MOE in
establishing a new management information system and training the Planning
Unit officer. The education planner/statistician would continue to provide
technical assistance under the project (24 months) and on-the-job training to
Planning Unit staff. This training would be supplemented by 18 months of
fellowships and study tours. The project would also provide equipment and
materials to facilitate data collection, processing and dissemination by the
MIS. Three main tasks of the Planning Unit will be supported under this sub-
component:
(a) Management Information System (MIS). The project would provide
technical assistance to MOE in preparing and implementing a new
MIS to replace the current Belize Primary School Monitoring System
(BSMS).
(b) School Mapning. The education planner/statistician would help MOE
to prepare and periodically update a school mapping survey for
primary and secondary schools. The main purpose of the survey
would be to help MOE plan new school sites, school amalgamations,
and closings in light of shifts in enrollment and student-teacher
ratios, population growth, and physical conditions of schools and
roads. An initial mapping survey was completed during project
preparation to facilitate planning for the proposed SFIP. The
school map would be completed in the first year of project
implementation on the basis of population data and other
information which will become available from the 1991 Census.



17 
(e) Special Studies. The Planning Unit would conduct ceveral studies
for planning and policymaking over the next five years. For
example, one major utudy would focus on the demand and supply of
teachers, assess MOE's staffing policies and practices, and
examine tho incentive system for attracting teachers to work in
rural and remote schoole. A second study would complete the
survey of primary school facilities and develop a five-year plan
for school construction. Six months of technical assistance would
be provided to assist the Planning Unit staff conduct these
studies. The terms of reference for the studies will only be
prepared when the Planning Unit is fully operational.
2.18        Manazement Strengthening.  The project would also provide six
months of technical assistance and in-service training to help MOE strengthen
its management of the education sector. The assistance would be of two main
types: (a) general management assistance to improve MOE's systems and methods
for setting objectives, monitoring and evaluating performance, and increasing
motivation and staff productivity; and (b) financial management assistance to
improve MOE's budget processing, budget monitoring, and accounting systems.
A key objective under (a) would be to strengthen management at all levels of
the education F; tem, especially in the districts and in the schools; another
objective would be to enhance the cooperation between MOE and the church
school managers in planning and implementing improvements in the education
system. Under (b) the key objective would be to help MOE more efficiently
mobilize and use resources for education.
2.19        Education Centers.  Finally, Ln support of MOE's strategy of
strengthening regional management and support services to teachers and
principals, the project would build new facilities and upgrade the resources
of three education centers now in temporary and inadequate facilities: Punta
Gorda (-oledo District), San Ignacio (Cayo District) and Dangriga (Stann Creek
DistricL). The education centers to be constructed under the project would
include an office for thA district education officer and facilities (library,
materials production/meeting room, and equipment for a teacher resource
center.  T'he project would also finance the civil works, furniture and
equipment for the centers. MOE would place the education centers under the
direct responsibility of the DEOs, to be assisted by the Assistant DEOso It
would also arrange for the staffing of the resource centers by Assistant DEOs
or others in the coamunities. Additional support for the teacher resource
centers in the form of equipment, supplies and books would be provided by
CODE. The three VSOc who will support in-service training in the dictricts
(para. 2.6) would also be posted at the teacher resource centers to conduct
teacher training workshops.



18 -
III.  PROJECT COSTS. F                           IMPLEMENTAION
A. Project Costs and Financing
3.1         Proiect Costs.  The total cost of the project, including duties
and taxes, is estimated at about BZ$25.2 million or US$12.6 million
equivalent. The breakdown of costs of the project by component, categories of
expenditure and sub-components is summarized in Tables 1, 2, 3 and Annexes 12-
17.
3.2         Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated costs for civil works are
based on current unit costs for construction which vary from US$35 to US$40
per sq. ft. of gross floor area of construction. Estimated rehabilitation
costs were calculated based on a consultant study. These costs are reasonable
for comparable Bank assisted construction in the Caribbean region. Costs of
professional services foi design, preparation of drawings and tender
documents, and on site supervision of construction reflect the scale of fees
established for similar services provided by local architectural and
engineering consulting firms. Estimated furniture and equipment and vehicle
costs are based on current c.i.f. unit prices, adjusted to include local
transportation costs, and exclude direct taxes. Estimates for technical
assistance and studies are based on ODA's recent costs for these activities
within and outside Belize. Estimated costs for the salaries of additional
staff are based on local pay scales including standard allowances and other
applicable benefits.
Table 1: COSTS BY COMPONENT
% of
Belize S (Million)        USS (Million)       Base
Component                 Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Cost
Teacher Education             2.71  1.46    4.17      1.35    0.73    2.08   20
Education Development         6.23  6.75   12.98      3.12    3.37    6.49   61
Planning & Management         2.41.93    3.97         1.02    0.97    1.99   19
Base Costs                   10.98 10.14   21.12      5.49    5.07   10.56  100
Contingencies                 2.08  2.08    4.16      1.04    1.04    2.08   20
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          13.06 12.22   25.28      6.53    6.11   12.64  120
-        -                  =     =        -  



- 19 -
Table 2: COSTS BY CATEGORIES OF EXPENDITURES
Category of                 Belize S (Million)           USS (Million) L
Expenditure                                                                     Base
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total  Costs
Investment Costs
Civil Works             4.52    3.27      7.79      2.26    1.64      3.90      37
Professional Fees       0.56    0.12      0.68      0.28    0.06      0.34       3
Furniture               0.55    0.24      0.79      0.28    0.12      0.40       4
Equipment               0.16    1.47      1.63      0O.b    0.73      0.81       8
Vehicles                0.04    0.40      0.44      0.02    0.20      0.22       2
Books                   0.06    0.25      0.31      0.03    0.13      0.16       1
Foreign Consultants   0.70    1.62        2.32      0.35    0.81      1.16      12
Foreign Fellowships   0.09    0.83        0.92      0.05    0.41      0.46       4
Local Consultants       1.55      --      1.55      0.77      --      0.77       7
Local Fellowships       1.03      --      1.03      0.51      --      0.51       5
Textbooks               0.37    1.50      1.87      0.19    0.75      0.94       9
Subtotal             9.64    9.70    19.34        4.82    4.85      9.67      92
Recurrent Costs
Pre-service Training
Allowances           0.04      --       0.04       0.02      --     0.02       0
Salaries of
Additional Staff       0.73     --       0.73       0.37      --     0.37       3
Consumable &
Training Materials   0.08    0.32        0.40       0.04    0.16    0.20        2
Operation &
Maintenance            0.49    0.12      0.61       0.24    0.06    0.30        3
Subtotal             1.34    0.44       1.78       0.67    0.22    0.89        8
Total Base Costs       10.98   10.14    21.12        5.49    5.07   10.56    100
Contingencies
-Physical              0.89    0.85       1.74       0.44    0.43    0.87        8
-Price                  1.19    1.23      2.42       0.60    0.61    1.21       12
Subtotal              2.08    2.08       4.16       1.04    1.04    2.08       20
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS  13.06   12.22    26.28          6.53    6.11   12.64    120
NOTES:  Subtotal may not add to totals due to rounding.  Costs include taxes
and duties.



- 20 -
Table 3:  COSTS BY SUB-COMPONENT
Component/                   Belize S (Million)       US$ (Million)          Base
Sub-_Compnent               Local  Foreign Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Costs
Teacher Edueation
Strengthening the
Teacher
Training System              0.94    1.42   2.36    0.47    0.71    1.18   11
Teacher Training &
Upgrading                    1.76    0.05   1.81    0.88    0.02    0.90    9
Subtotal                  2.70    1.47   4.17    1.35    0.73    2.08   20
Education Development
School Facilities           4.65      3.68   8.33    2.32    1.84    4.16   39
Curric. & Textbook
Development                1.25      2.48   3.73    0.63    1.24    1.87   18
Assessment & Evaluation    0.34       0.58   0.92    0.17    0.29    0.46    3
Subtotal                 6.24      6.74  12.98    3.12    3.37    6.49   60
Planning & Management
Education Planning Unit    0.36       0.75   1.11    0.18    0.38    0.56    6
New Education Centers       0.86      0.79   1.65    0.43    0.39    0.82    8
PIU                         0.82      0.39   1.21    0.41    0.20    C.61    6
Subtotal                  2.04      1.93   3.97    1.02    0.97    1.99   20
Total Base Costs          10.98    10.14  21.12    5.49    5.07   10.56  100
ContinRencies
-Physical                   0.89      0.85   1.74    0.44    0.43    0.87       8
-Price                      1.19      1.23   2.42    0.60    0.61    1.21    12
2.08     2.08   4.16    1.04    1.04    2.08    20
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        13.06    12.22  25.28    6.53    6.11   12.64   120



21 
3.3         Customs Duties and Taxes.  All imported goods destined for
education are exempt from customs duties and taxes. The estimated cost of the
project includes indirect hidden iruport duties and taxes estimated at about
US$0.12 million.
3.4         Contingencv Allowances.  Estimated project costs include physical
contingencies (US$0.87 million) estimated at 10 percent of all physical
components, except for vehicles, and at 5 percent for increased requirements
of technical assistance, salaries and allowances. The estimated costs of the
project also include price contingencies (US$1.21 million) to cover expected
price escalation at the following rates: for civil works and goods, foreign
costs:  3.4 percent in FY92 through FY98; local costs:  1.1 percent in FY92,
0.01 percent in FY93, 1.6 percent in FY94, 3.8 percent in FY95 and 3.7 percent
thereafter; for salaries, fees and operation and maintenance, foreign costs:
3.4 percent for FY92 through FY98; local costs: 3.4 percent in FY92, 3.6
percent in FY93, 3.9 percent in FY93-94, and 4.1 percent thereafter.
3.5         Foreign Exchan e Component.  The estimated foreign exchange
component of US$6.11 million is calculated on the basis of estimated foreign
exchange proportions as follows: civil works, 42 percent; professional fees,
18 percent; furniture, 30 percent; equipment and vehicles, 90 percent; books
and consumable materials, 80 percent; international fellowships and foreign
consultants, 90 percent and 70 percent respectively.
3.6         Financing Plan.  The proposed Bank loan of US$7.1 million
equivalent would finance about 56 percent of the total cost of the project net
of taxes and 84 percent of the total estimated foreign exchange component.
The balance would be provided by the ODA of the United Kingdom in the form of
a grant for approximately US$1.3 million equivalent. The GOB would finance
the remaining net costs of US$4.1 million and all taxes. The ODA grant would
be made directly to Belize and finance foreign technical assistance, books,
travel and study costs. A condition of loan effectiveness would be that the
Government would sign an agreement with ODA, satisfactory to the Bank, on the
co-financing of the proposed project (para. 5.3 (a)).
3.7         Incremental Recurrent Costs.  Incremental costs attributable to
the project would total approximately US$0.9 million over seven years through
1998. A portion of this amount for operations and maintenance of school
facilities would fall under the Government's Capital Budget II allocation for
education, sports and culture. The remainder would need to be covered under
the annual recurrent budget for education. At negotiations, the Government
agreed to provide annual increments to the recurrent budget for staff
salaries, operations and maintenance, and other expenses during 1992-98 at
levels necessary to support project implementation and sustain all project
inputs after project completion (para. 5.2 (c)).
B. Procurement
3.8         The procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in
Table 4. Contracts for works (instructional facilities and maintenances
estimated total value US$2.8 million), exceeding US$100,000 equivalent, which



- 22 -
represent about 61 percent of the total cost of civil works (US$5.04 million)
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures (LCB)
acceptable to the Bank and open to the participation of foreign bidders.
Because of the phasing of construction (Annex 10: Implementation Schedules)
and the small value of these contracts (maximum value of US$0.3 million
equivalent)9 no foreign firm is expected to participate. Contracts for
rehabilitation/renovation and minor extensions below US$50,000 each in value
and US$2.2 million in the aggregate would be awarded to local contractors and
individual craftsmen based on evaluating at least three price quotations. In
the event three quotations cannot be obtained, direct negotiations will be
permitted provided that the Bank is first informed of the lack of respon-
siveness to the shopping procedure.
3.9         Contracts for Eguipment and Vehicles (US$1.23 million).  Contracts
for equipment and vehicles (US$0.92 million) representing 75 percent of total
equipment costs would be bulked in packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$100,000 or more each and would be awarded on the basis of ICB.
Contracts for the purchase of equipment below US$100,000 equivalent each, not
exceeding US$0.21 million in the aggregate, would be awarded on the basis of
LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for the purchase of
equipment below US$25,000 equivalent or about 8 percent of the equipment may
be awarded on the basis of shopping, with solicitation of price quotations
from at least three suppliers up to a maximum of US$0.1 million. For
equipment procured under ICB, a 15 percent domestic preference or the
prevailing import duties, whichever is lower, may be accorded for locally
manufactured equipment.
3.10        Contracts for Furniture (USSO.47 million) would be spread across a
variety of users over the life of the project. They would not be appropriate
for ICB, and therefore would be processed through LCB procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. Locally manufactured furniture is available at very
economical prices; foreign firms are unlikely to bid. Imported furniture
locally available in the market which is procured for educational institutions
would be exempt from customs duties and taxes. Contracts for the purchase of
furniture estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent up to an aggregate
of US$0.15 million may be awarded on the basis of local shopping with
solicitation of price quotations from at least three suppliers. The majority
of furniture, about 68 percent, will be procured through local competitive
bidding.
3.11        Textbooks. Training Materials, and Consumables (valued at USS1.60
million), Textbooks (US$1.35 million) would be procured by direct purchasing
from publishers, both local and international. The selection of textbooks
would be made by each school from a list provided by MOE; training materials
and consumables (US$0.25 million) would be purchased through shopping
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.12        Technical Assistance and Trainine (valued at USS3.41 million).
The majority of technical assistance and training is cofinanced in parallel by
the ODA and will be provided under contract by an educational institution in
the United King rlm. The institution will be selected by ODA and procurement



- 23 -
carried nut in accordance with ODA regulations. Bank-financed inputs will be
procured in accordance with World Bank consulting guidelines.
3.13        Prior Review.  All procurement documentation under ICB and civil
works under LCB valued at above US$100,000 each would be subject to prior
review and approval of the Bank as well as the first two contracts for goods
and works procured through LCB valued at below $100,000 and through shopping
respectively.
Table 4: PROCUREMENT METHOD
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method                   Total
Project Element                    ICB      LCB     Other       N.B.F      Cost
1. Works
1.1  Instructional Facilities    -       2.80      1.86         -        4.66
(1.68)   (1.12)                (2.80)
1.2  Maintenance                  -         -      0.38         -        0.38
(0.23)                (0.23)
2. Goods
2.1  Equipment & Vehicles       0.92      0.21     0.10         -         1.23
(0.55)   (0.13)   (0.06)                 (0.74)
2.2  Furniture                    -       0.32     0.15         -        0.47
(0.19)   (0.09)                (0.28)
2.3  Textbooks, Training          -         -      1.60         -         1.60
Material, Consumable                       (1.03)                (1.03)
3. Service Contracts
3.1  Architectural Fees           -         -      0.42         -        0.42
(0.25)                (0.25)
4. Consultancies
4.1  Technical Assistance         -         -      0.58 b/    1.27 a/   1.85
(0.58)                (0.58)
4.2  Training                     -         -      1.56         -        1.56
(0.94)                (0.94)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1  Incremental Salaries         -         -      0.47 c/      -        0.47
(0.28)                (0.28)
TOTAL                     0.92    3.33      7.12        1.27     12.64
(0.55)  (2.00)   (4.58)                 (7.13)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.  N.B.F: Not Bank-financed.
_/    Cofinanced in parallel by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA);
procurement in accordance with ODA regulations in conformity with para.
1.4 of World Bank Guidelines; Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (Washington, D.C. May 1985).
b/    Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelinees
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the Worla Bank as
executing agency (Washington, D.C., August 1981).
C/    Not subject to procurement.



- 24 -
C. Disbursements
3.14        Disbursement Percentages.  The Bank loan would be disbursed
againstt 100 percent of foreign and local expenditures for goods; 60 percent
of expenditures for civil works and professional fees; 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 60 percent of local expenditures for consultants, training
fellowships and study trips.  Recurrent costs for consumables, training
materials and allowances, salaries of additio'.al staff, and operation and
maintenance would be financed on a declining basis yearly starting in 1992 at
100 percent up to an aggregate of US$100,000; thereafter 85 percent up to a
total disbursement aggregate of US$202,000; thereafter 75 percent up to a
total disbursement aggregate of US$314,000; thereafter 60 percent up to a
total disbursement aggregate of US$416,000; thereafter 50 percent up to a
total disbursement aggregate of US$506,000; thereafter 35 percent up to a
total aggregate of US$560,000; and 25 percent thereafter.
3.15        Required Documentation.  Except for contracts requiring prior
review, disbursements for civil works contracts estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent, and contracts for goods, consumable materials, services
and training estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent would be made
against Statemerts of Expenditures (SOE) certified by MOE and representatives
authorized by the borrower. Documentation would be retained by MOE and made
available for review by the Bank during the course of supervision missions.
All other disbursements would be made against fully documented withdrawal
applications.
3.16        Special Account.  In order to accelerate disbursement with respect
to the Bank's share of expenditures pre-financed by the Government, and in
order to allow for direct payment of other eligible local and foreign
expenditures, a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank of Belize
with an initial deposit of US$0.5 million equivalent to cover four months of
expected requirements of Bank-financed items.
3.17        Retroactive Financing.  Up to US$0.7 million is recommended to
cover eligible expenditures after April 1, 1991 for costs incurred in
preparing and implementing appraised project activities.
3.18        Disbursement Profile.  The proposed loan would be disbursed over a
seven-year period. This is realistic given the design and the advanced state
of preparation of the project. The pre-appraisal mission carefully evaluated
MOE's capability and capacity to effectively implement '-he project in a timely
manner. Specific emphasis and ana'lysis were devoted to insuring the imple-
mentation of civil works and the procurement of furniture and equipment. The
project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998, and the Closing Date
would be June 30, 1999. The standard disbursement profile for education
projects is seven and one half years. The design of the project, the current
advanced state of preparation, ani the measures which would be taken to
expedite procurement and disbursement reinforce the justification for a seven-
year disbursement period. A forecast of annual expenditures and disbursement
is shown in Annex 12.



- 25 -
D. Project Management and Implementation
3.19        Statues of Preparation
(a) Sitse. Sites for all three new Education Centers have been
identified and selected, and are in the process of being acquired.
No problems are anticipated in the acquisition of sites since most
sites are on government land. All sites for the schools listed in
Annex VI are existing sites. The extension work and the new
construction pertaining to the CDU and the Teacher Training
College will take place at the existing sites.
(b) Designs and Bidding Documents. Local architectural firms have
been engaged to prepare and develop designs and establish standard
bidding documents for the procurement of civil works. A technical
survey for school renovations and preliminary designs for new
construction scheduled for 1992 will be completed by the end of
1991. As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would
submit preliminary designs and draft bid documents for new
facilities satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.3 (b)).
(c) Preparation of Lists for Goods. Preliminary lists of furniture,
equipment, vehicles and books were prepared and reviewed by the
pre-appraisal mission team.
(d) Technical Assistance. Training and Studies. The technical
assistance and training requirements of the project have been
identified and are listed in Annex 9. Terms of reference for
long-term specialists were drafted during appraisal. The overall
package of technical assistance, training and study tours would be
contracted by ODA to a School of Education or a comparable insti-
tution in the United Kingdom. The institution would be required
to demonstrate a capacity to offer an integrated approach to
teaching, learning and assessment, high-level expertise for the
upecified long-term pcats, and wide ranging experience in inter-
national project development and management. The institution
would also arrange and supervise overseas visits of Belizeans,
ensuring that their study programs were relevant and properly
managed. This arrangement would be expected to begin in January
1992.
3.20        Project Management.  The proposed project would be managed by a
small Project Implementation Unit (PIU) staffed by Belizeans and located in
MOE under the direct supervision of the CEO. The PIU would be comprised oft
a Director (education administrator), Civil Works Supervisor, Financial and
Administrative Officer, and secretarial and administrative support services.
The PIU's main functions would be to: (a) liaise with the Bank, the Ministry
of Finance and MOE; (b) assess and optimize the use of resource inputs which
are provided; (c) monitor and review project progress and report it at
frequent intervals and formulate implementation schedules on the basis of
progress, problems and issues faced by the project; (d) arrange for consultant



- 26 -
services for the project; and (e) identify places/institutions for fellowship
training, select staff to receive fellowships and arrange for fellowships and
training programs.
3.21        The Director would manage the PIU team and coordinate the inputs
of the three long-term foreign consultants attached to the BTTC, CDU and the
Planning Unit, and those of the short-term consultants.  The Director and the
CEO would be responsible for ensuring that the PIU and MOE staff in Belize
City, Belmopan, and the districts maintain close communication and
cooperation, and work together effectively on project tasks, both in planning
and implementation. The PIU would also be expected to maintain similar
working relationLhips with the managers of the denominational schools in
implementing the project. Financir.g for the PIU professional staff,
secretaries, and logistical support are included under the project's planning
and management component. All PIU staff positions would be filled for the
duration of the project. The project budget also allocates reimbursement for
regular MOE staff involved with the project for those extra hours worked on
priority project activities. Compensation would be in accordance with
criteria approved by the Bank at negotiations, and not exceed a total of
US$435,000 during the project. The main criteria to be used in compensation
would be that: (a) work is performed outside normal working hours, and (b) it
is performed outside the individuals' official job description. Prior to
negotiations, the Government established the PIU and appointed a Director with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, and agreed not to
change the Director without the prior agreement of the Bank (para. 5,1 (b));
as a condition of loan effectiveness, the Government would complete the
appointments of the PIU professional staff with satisfactory skills and
experience (para. 5.3 (c)).
3.22        Implementation Processes,  The PIU would manage project-related
procurement. However, all ICB and LCB tendering would be done through the
procurement office in the Ministry of Finance. Belize's existing procedures
for procuring civil works and other inputs are satisfactory and would be used
under the project. School construction, repair, and related supervision by
architectural/consulting firms would be contracted by the PIU. A key feature
of the implementation strategy would be to ensure the full cooperation and
participation of all the actors in the education sector in Belize, especially
church managements, in the planning and implementation of the project. The
PIU would be expected to act directly and through the CEO to foster this
cooperation and participation. The project would be completed within a seven-
year period beginning in 1992 and ending in late 1998. Schedules of
Implementation are in Annex 10.  Pri'      negotiations, the Government
confirmed that it had filled 50 perc      f existing and newly created
establishment posts of importance tui V.ject implementation in the BTTC, PU,
Examinations Unit, and District Education Offices; and the remaining posts
will be filled by June 30, 1992 (para. 5.1 (c)).
3.23        Monitoring and Review.  Monitoring indicators for each component
have been developed to track project implementation in relation to key
performance targets and objectives. These targets are an integral part of the
project action plan prepared for the project. The project action plan will be
updated annually by the PIU and submitted for Bank review and comment. At



- 27 -
negotiations, the Government agreed to the monitoring indicators and key
performance targets in Annex 11 (para. 5.2 (d)).
3.24        The action plan and the monitoring indicators of project
implementation performance would form the central focus in annual reviews of
project implementation. The reviews would assese previous year's progress
towards achieving project expenditure targets, and uanagement and performance
targets, and would establish targets and schedules for the following year.
The reviews would also focus on resolving implementation problems and making
needed adjustments in project design. The reviews would be conducted jointly
by MOE and the Bank. MOE would present the firdings and recommendations of
the reviews to the NCE for discussion. During negotiations, the Government
agreed to prepare and furnish for Bank review, not later than December 1 of
each year beginning in 1992: (a) an evaluation of project implementation
results and expenditures for the preceding year; (b) a related review of
achievements and shortfalls based on established plans and objectives; (c) an
updated implementation schedule and expenditure plan for the following year,
using criteria acceptable to the Bank; and (d) the results of periodic
assessments carried out by MOE to measure student achievement at the primary
level (para. 5.2 (e)).
3.25        A mid-term review of the project would be conducted towards the
end of 1994 to assess, inter alia: implementation of the agreed plan for
changes in the system of teacher training, certification and remuneration,
adequacy of the level and composition of education expenditures, including
non-personnel expenditures as a share of total expenditures; implementation of
the maintenance plan for school facilities; and implementation of the textbook
loan scheme and its financial provisions, and take corrective actions as
needed.
E. Accounting and Auditing
3.26        Before disbursements begin, the PIU would establish a chart of
accounts and develop an administrative manual for the financial operation of
the project. The accounting system would allow for reconciliation of the
project accounts with the general budgetary accounting system of MOE. The
annual audit reports would include a State of Source and Application of Funds,
a separate opinion on SOEs, a separate audit report on the revolving fund for
the project, and an opinion on complianc-e. An opinion on compliance with
procurement arrangements specified in loan documents, and on the appro-
priateness of procurement documentation, should be included in the audit of
SOEs. The audit will be performed by a private firm of independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and under terms of reference approved by the Bank. It
will be sent to the Bank no later than four months after the end of each
fiscal year.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1         ProLect Benefits,  The project would improve the quality and
effectiveness of primary education by: (a) increasing the percentage of
certified primary school teachers from 45 percent to 80 percent; (b)



- 28 -
renovating and building approximately 105 primary school classrooms to relieve
overcrowding and improve the teaching and learning environment; (e) providing
all primary school children with a basic set of textbooks in the classroom;
(d) revising and standardizing primary school curricula and constructing
diagnostic and achievement testa for continuous classroom evaluation and
feedback for policy, teacher training and curriculum development; and (a)
strengthening the planning and management capacity of the MOE to make needed
improvements in management information, research and analysis, and education
and training of staff.
4.2         Prois LLiske.  There are two main risks.  The firot relates to
the limited management capacity in MOE to implement the measures needed to
improve the quality and efficiency of the education system0 This risk is
addressed by providing support for a Project Implementation Unit under the CEO
to plan and coordinate project implementation with MOE staff and by making
available technical assistance and training to strengthen the management of
government and church schools. The second risk is that project achievements
would not be sustained after project completion. To ensure the sustainability
of project achievements, MOE would approve the necessary policies and levels
of recurrent budgetary support for key programs of teacher training, textbook
distribution, and school facilities construction and maintenance.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1         Prior to negotiations, the Government confirmed it hada
(a) approved the proposed changes to the system of teacher training,
certification, and remuneration developed for the proposed project
(para. 2.6);
(b) established the PIU and appointed its Director with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Bank, and agreed not to change
the Director without the prior agreement of the Bank (para. 3.21);
and
(c) filled 50 percent of existing and newly created establishment
posts of importance to project implementation in the BTTC, PU,
Examinations Unit, and District Education Offices; and the
remaining posts will be filled by Juno 30, 1992 (para. 3,22),
5.2         At negotiations, the Government agreed to8
(a) sustain a minimum annual allocation of US$3009000 equivalent in
real terms in each fiscal year for operations and maintenance of
school facilities beginning on April 1, 19939 and continuing
throughout project implementation, and to prepare and implement an
annual operations and maintenance plan for all primary schools,
acceptable to the Bank, by December 31, 1992 (para. 2.9);



- 29 -
(b) adopt a policy by May 31, 1992 for permitting each school to use
textbook loan fees collected from parents to purchase additional
textbooks or other instructional materials (para. 2.13);
tc) provide annual increments to the recurrent budget for staff
salaries, operations and maintenance, and other expenses during
1992-98 at levels necessary to support project implementation and
sustain all project inputs after project completion (para. 3.7);
(d) the monitoring indicators and key performance targets in Annex 11
(para. 3.23);
(e) prepare and furnish for Bank review, not later than December 1 of
each year beginning in 1992: (i) an evaluation of project
implementation results and expenditures for the preceding year;
(ii) a related review of achievements and shortfalls based on
established plans and objectives; (iii) an updated implementation
schedule and expenditure plan for the following year, using
criteria acceptable to the Bank; and (iv) the results of periodic
assessments carried out by MOE to measure student achievement at
the primary level (para. 3.24); and
(f) conduct a mid-term review of the project towards the end of 1994
and take corrective actions as needed.
5.3         As conditions of loan effectiveness, the Government would:
(a) sign an agreement with ODA, satisfactory to the Bank, on the co-
financing of the proposed project (para. 3.6);
(b) submit preliminary designs and draft bidding documents for new
facilities satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.19 (b)); and
(c) complete the appointment of the PIU professional staff with
satisfactory skills and experience (para. 3.21).
Recommendation
5.4         Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$7.1 million equivalent to
the Government of Belize, repayable in 17 years, including a four-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



THE EDUCATION SYSTEM OF BELIZE
1991
Tertiary Schools
School of Nursing
w
Z             SIGBJCA                                  BTC
(n                                       0
Sixth Form
Pre-School                                Primary School                                            Secondary School                     Schools           UCB
BTTC
BCA
3       4          5       6        7        8       9       10      11       12                13      14      15       16             17      18
I s 2 2 ! t l_.t t  L  t   1    L                    t
Age
ECA: Belize College ol Agriculture                  BTTC: BelIze Teachers College
BJCA: Belize Jurdor College of Agriculture          CXC: Caribbean Examlnalion Council
BNSE: Belize Nabonal Selection Examinaton           GCE: General Certilicate o1 Education
BTC: Belize Technical College                       UCB: University College of BelIze
eq*4965c



PRIUSRY ZDEUCAION DNVZWO1BNT PROJ2CT
PRIMARY EDUCATION STATISTICS
Table 1: Primary Education Enrollment
(1975/6-1990/1)
School      Pre-School/      Infant      Infant     Standard    Standard   Standard   Standard   Standard         Standard    Totals
Year         Beginner          I           II           I           II         III         IV          V            VI
74-5                         6,150      4,311        4,221        4,160       3,624       3,458      3,023         2,791        31,738
75-6                         6,281      4,320        4,311        4,115       3,982       3,525      2,986         3.047        32,567
76-7                         6,602      4,384        4,330        4,062       3,871       3,775      2,064         3,017        32,105
77-8/a                       6,701      4,450        4,395        4,123       3,929       3,832      2,095         3,062        32,587
78-9                         6,590      4,784        4.422        4,240       4,186       3.819      3,372         3,509        34,922
79-80                        6,609      4,655        4,537        4,410       3.942       3,779      3,297         3,386        34,615
80-1/h                       6,147      4,958        4,409        4,635       4,036       3,923      3,173         3,323        34,604
81-2                         6,477      4,697        4,710        4,444       4,322      3.896       3,285         3,250        35,081
82-3                         6,560      4,848        4,774        4,677       4,193       4,068      3,391         3,469        35,980
83-4                         6,991      5,125        4,875        4,832       4,599       4,230      3,628         3,473        37,753
84-5                         7,158      5,168        4,992        4,764       4,588       4,324      3,809         3,709        38,512
85-6                         7,357      5,155        5,218        4,831       4,493       4,364      3,996         3,798        39,212
86-7                         7,449      5,376        5,049        4,841       4,667       4,409      4,074         3,914        39,779
87-8/c                       7,835      5,643        5,375        5,088       4,859       4.570      4,206         4,010        41,586
88-9/c                       8,035      5,775        5,579        5,214       4,933       4,619      4,234         4,005        42,394
89-90/c                      8,427      6,045        5,920        5,466       5,122      4,774       4,358         4,089        44,201
90-1/d       1,378           7.449      6,319        6.271        5,721       5,311      4,928       4,479         4,167        46,023
/  Mission estimate - data not collected in 1977-78
b/ Infant I enrollments sometimes include children in pxe-schools, sometimes not; it appears that th:ey axe not included in 1980-81.
S/ Estimates based on the total number of prjimary school children recorded on schools' administrative monthly returns - and the
proportion of the total in each grade recorded in 1986-87 end in 1990-91.
N/ W4E Planning Unit's SPIP exercise. Only pie-school units attached to primary schools have been included. Pupils in such units
and 'beginners' in school proper are shown separately.
1>
Source:  CSO except where otherwise indicated; mission estimates; Planning Unit.                                                                   m  S
I-.
4,



- 32 -
ANNX 2
Page 2 of 4
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION STATISTICS
Table 2: Number of Government and Government-Aided
Primary Schools by District by UrbanlRural
(1990-91)
DISTRICT:
Orange           Stann
Belize   Cayo  Walk   Corozal  Creek  Toledo   All
Urban                       36      12     9       7         7      3      74
Rural total                 25     29    22       27        22     37      162
of which:
No allowance              9     16    14       22        12      9      82
III (least remote)        7      2      0       0        5       0      14
II                        8      2      4       4        3       8      29
T (most remote)           1      9      4       1        2      20      37
All                      61     41    31       34       29      40     236
Source:  MOE Planning Unit (SPIP exercise, spring term 1991)



3 33
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRIMRY EDUCATION STATISTICS
Table 3: Primary Education Enrollment by District by Management
(1990-91)
DISTRICT                                           Z of
MANAGEMENT   Belize       Cayo   Orange      Corozal    Stann   Toledo        All    all
Walk                   Creek
Government       725    1,660      1,705         767        0       201    5,058      11
Roman          5,676    6,469      4,745       4,307   3,460      4,003   28,660    62.3
Catholic
Anglican       2,722      533        251         300      633        58    4,497    9.8
Methodist      2,288         0         0         516      495       340    3,639      7.9
Seventh         211       162        146         229       85         0       833     1.8
Day
Adventist
Nazarene          0       402          0         287        0         0       689     1.5
Assemblies      236          0         0         120      136         0       492     1.1
of God
Other          1,620       158       308           0       69         0    2,115      4.7
All           13,478    9,384      7,155       6,526   4,878    4,602    46,023    100
Z of All      29.3        20.4      15.5        14.2    10.6      10.0        100



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION STATISTICS
Table 4: Number of Primary Schools by District by Hanatement
(1990-91)
DISTRICT
MANAGEMENT   Belize  Cayo       Orange      Corozal    Stann   Toledo       All
Walk                   Creek
Government         5        8        9            6       -          4       32
Roman             20       26        17          20       16        31       130
Catholic
Anglican          13        3         1           1        4         2       24
Methodist         12        -         -           2       5          3       22
Seventh            2        1        2            2        1         -        8
DPy
Adventist
Nazarene           0        2         0           2       0          0        4
Assemblies         1        0         0           1        2         0        4
of God
Other              8        1        2            0       -          -       12
All               61       41       31           34                 40      236



BELIZE
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Organizational Chart
M inisters                          f E
FtnarKce           Flnance 
Dlvison    _        Oincer    _
Permanent Secretary
Personnel              Assistant                       l
Division           Secretary
Chief Educatlon
Officer
|Deputy CEO|
D 'on                                                                                    Developen
PEO 1|    PEO    |             1Re   Teache er  Beiz        University          Planning     Vocalional &    Curriculum      Adut & 
(Primary)D (Sec.Ted.)  Lcai                                 College           PUnil          Technical    Development    Continuing    E n,l
Edrumaffon   (Sec. & Ten.)                   College           of Belze                        Training Unit     Unit         Educaion          U
CEO: Chtel Education Officer
PEO: Pdmary Education Officr                                                                                                                                         °
Source: MOE
arp\w49655a



BELIZE
PRIMARV EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJ Z CT
Ministry of Education's Expenditure by Sub-sector
('000 BZ$)
CATEGORY                                    Budget Estimate                Estimated Exp.            Accrual Expenditures               Actual
1991192       2               1990/91      2            1989/90           2             1988/89    2
1. Central Admin-
istration                                741        2.0                 678       2.0              542           1.8            712       3.0
2. Primary Education
including:                              23,748       62.5              21,724      62.8           19,069          62.7         13,9;5      59.2
- Govt. schools                            2,525       6.6               2,211       6.4            2,048           6.7            n/a    n/a
- Grant-aided
denominated schools                   20,959       55.2              19,282      55.8           16,800          55.3         12,481      52.9
- Other                                      264        .7                 231         .6             221            .7            nla    nla
3. Secondary Education
including:                               7,809       20.6               7,250      20.9            6,362          20.9          5,679      24.1
- Govt. schools                           2,874        7.6               2,550       7.3            2,238           7.4            n/a    n/a
- Grant-aided
denominated schools                    4,935       13.0               4,700      13.6            4,124          13.5          3,029      12.8
4. Higher                                  3,092       8.1               2,916       8.4            2,668           8.8          1,557       6.6
5. Other                                   2,581       6.8               2,042       5.9            1,754           5.8          1,666       7.1
TOTAL                                37,971     100.00              34,610     100.00         30,395          100.00        23,579     100.00
'd D
23 z
tQ m
0 M
ro



37 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE PER STUDENT BY LEVEL OF EDUCATION
1989/90 (BZ$)
Public Expenditure
Categorv          Expenditure      Enrollment        ger Student
(Bzs)                              (BZ$)
Primary            19,069           42,183                 452
Secondary           6,362            7,606                836
Higher              2p668            1,318              2,024
Source: Ministry of Education and mission estimates



- 38 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 19
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TEACHER EDUCATION COMPONENT
I. Current System and Background to the Proiect
Current System
1.    Several institutions participate in the teacher training system.  Belize
Teachers College (BTTC) is responsible for training primary school teachers
and recently has also become responsible for the in-service training of
teachers and principals. The University College of Belize (UCB) undertakes
the training of secondary school teachers. The Curriculum Development Unit
(CDU) runs in-service programs related to curriculum development reform and
adoption processes, and the Belize Teachers Union (BTU) runs informal
programs.
2.    The major teacher training route is currently based upon a system of
acquiring academic qualifications through self-study, derived from the Pupil
Teacher System where a school leaver enters teaching and is trained on the
job. Successful completion of this course of study renders a teacher eligible
to take the entrance examination to the BTTC for a three year full-time course
of study for the Joint Board of Teacher Education Course (JBTE) offered by the
University of the West Indies (UWI): the third year consists of an
internship, or supervised practice teaching. A one year pre-service course
was introduced in 1990-91 in anticipation of the restructuring of the system
under the project.
3.    Belize has not traditionally had a system of pre-service teacher
training. Therefore teachers recruited by church managements and the
Government, depending on the management of the school, have had no training.
In many cases in the past they have been early leavers from the secondary
system or even primary school leavers. They then started upon a long period
of self study for which syllabi and learning materials were often absent.
There are five categories of untrained teachers:
(a) Primary Certificate Teacher, who has completed Standard 6;
(b) First Teacher, who is a primary school leaver who has passed an
examination which is roughly equivalent to the first year of high
school: this is an Uncertified Teacher (all the below are Certified);
(c) Second Class Teacher, a First Teacher or secondary school leaver after
second grade or higher (but not completed) or graduate from Belize
Junior Secondary School (BJSS) who has passed an examination through
self-study qualifying them at a level roughly equivalent to the second
year of High School;



- 39 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 19
(d) High School Graduate, who has successfully completed secondary school;
and
(e) First Class Teacher, who prepares through delf-study and then passes an
examination which qualifies a teacher at a level equivalent to the high
school leaving standard. As there is no national secondary school
leaving examination, the standard of different schools varies
considerably. The assessment for First Class Teacher covers high school
subjects, and has a small professional component (papers on methods and
management, child psychology, one child observation, lesson plans, and
one demonstrated lesson in front of the examiner). High school
graduates must take the professional component only when their school
transcripts and CXC results show inadequate achievement in the academic
subjects: otherwise they also must take any subjects required.
4.    Table 1 shows the 1990 composition of the teaching force by
qualification.
Table 1: Number of Teachers by Qualification - 1990
Primary Cert./ Second Class High School  First Class  Trained   TOTAL
First Teacher                 Graduate
10.            78            457           426          875      1941
Source: Ministry of Education
Plannina and Management of Teacher Trainina
5.    The major responsibility for planning and managing the teacher-training
system rests with the BTTC, in consultation with the other institutions
mentioned. Cooperation between the formal institutions is not generally
formalized although there is some interaction between CDU and BTTC for both
planning and delivery of teacher orientation programs related to curriculum
development. No clear institutional role definition is made for either BTTC
or CDU with respect to in-service delivery.
Institutional Profiles
6.    BTTC is managed by a Principal who reports to the Board of the College
under a Chairman. Its members include the Chief Education Officer, church
managers, principals, a teachers union representative and a BTTC staff
representative.
7.    Belize Teachers College has 22 full-time staff members and employs
additional part-time staff. In 1990-91, total enrollment was 254, making an
average of one staff person per twelve students. Taking into account
vacancies and overseas study stafft student ratios are 1:16. Nineteen of the



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 19
staff have or are studying for a first degree; 12 have or are studying for a
higher degree.
8.    The Curriculum Development Unit (CDU) currently has 7 full-time staff.
Three are full established posts, the remainder are filled by teachers on
secondment from primary and secondary schools. CDU can also draw on part-time
assistance from BTTC, UCB and schools for the running of orientation workshops
for teachers.
Outreach Capacity
9.    BTTC's outreach capacity consists of 6 field supervisors who are
responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of trainees during internship.
Presently two of these posts are vacant, but they will be filled in 1991.
BTTC has no physical outreach capacity, relying on the use of District
Education offices, District Resource Centers, and schools for the delivery of
in-service teacher training.
10.   The CDU has no staff with major responsibility for outreach delivery of
curriculum orientation workshops; ad hoc teams are mobilized as required. The
CDU has responsibility for managing and supporting the Teacher Resource
Centers.
Teacher Supolv and Posting
11.   HOE has not, in the past, planned for teacher supply.  Information for
such planning has not always been available, and tiiere has been no interaction
between ministry planning officials and teacher training institutions.
12.   Teachers are recruited by the MOE and church managements as the need
arises. A formula for placing teachers, known as the Staffing Schedule, is
used to allocate teacher entitlements to schools in accordance with
enrollments. Entitlements are divided between certified and uncertified
teachers. Thus, for example, a school with biennial average attendance of
between 151 and 175 students would be entitled to 4 certified and 3
uncertified. teachers. In general, the formula results in theoretical pupil-
teacher ratios of between 20 and 25.
Salary and Incentives
13.   The teacher salary scales are part of the overall civil service
structure. For example, a trained teacher with a JBTE qualification enters
the service on Scale 8, which currently has twenty increments from BZ$9,120 to
17,328 p.a. First Class teachers are placed on Pay Scale 6 and High School
graduates on Pay Scale 5. Teachers then move up two or three scales after
receiving the JBTE certificate.
14.   The career path and opportunities within BTTC are limited.  The
Principal is on Pay Scale 25 (BZ$25,608 - 42,024 p.a.), one Vice Principal on
Pay Scale 24 (BZ$22,584 - 39,000), five Heads of Department posts on Pay Scale
21 (BZ$20,484 - 36,900) and Lecturers on Pay Scale 14 (BZ$14,700 -26,100).



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 19
The latter posts are within the same Pay Scale as a graduate teacher in
primary and seconidary schools and below that of a primary school principal
with a degree.
15.   Teachers in rural and remote areas receive travel and accommodation
allowanceo. Teachere undergoing/in training receive full salary. Teacher
trainees who are not yet salaried teachers, as on the new pre-service course,
receive a grant of BZ$350 per month, or, if they are from Belize City, BZ$220
per month. All trainees receive a book allowance of BZ$100 per year.
II. Proposed Changes to the Teacher Training Svstem
A. Issues and Problems
16,  At the institutional level, planning, management and delivery of
programs is fragmented. Joint planning of work programs between BTTC and CDU
is ad hoc in nature. There is no formalized mechanism between BTTC, ministry
planning functions and school managers for the planning and projection of
teacher supply.
17.   Within BTTC the narrow promotion structure provides little incentive for
staff. In addition, the management and organization of BTTC lacks clear
functional definition and the Vice-Principal post is relegated to a largely
administrative rather than professional/pedagogical function.
18.   The BTTC institutional profile is reflected in the academic orientation
of the teacher training programs, together with its emphasis on training only
serving teachers. Progress is slow up the academic ladder with high annual
failure rates in all the qualification examinations. For example, in 1990 the
percentage of the candidates that passed were 13 percent for the First Teacher
Exam; 14 percent for the Second Class Exam, and 10 percent for the First Class
Teacher Exam.  Most aspirants to training are thus denied access. Thus,
almost anyone in Belize can be accepted for the teaching profession, but only
a few can be accepted for training as a teacher.
19.   Even if the current high rates of failure were to be mitigated, the
courses are almost entirely oriented towards the academic school curricula and
are generally irrelevant to the needs of teachers. Teachers who have studied
for many years for a First Class Teacher Certificate will have received very
little, if any, meaningful practical professional training.
20.   Finally, the long JBTE course, which itself has had high failure and
repetition rates in the past, has meant that teachers have been taken out of
school for two years in order to achieve qualification. These factors
contributed to very slow growth in the proportion of trained staff in the
primary teacher cadre. Table 2 shows the growth in the percentage of trained
teachers from 1970-90.



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 19
Table 2:  Percentage of Teaching Force Trained 1970-90
Year      I Trained Teachers
1970           28.8
1975           33.6
1980           35.3
1985           43.4
1990           45.0
21.   The aforementioned factors have limited access to primary teacher
training, especially in rural areas where practicing teachers tend to have
weaker academic backgrounds. Another impeding factor for rural teachers who
do qualify for in-college training is that finding replacements is difficult.
These limitations have contributed to disparities between the proportions of
trained teachers in urban and rural areas. Recent MOE figures indicate that
about 65 percent of rural teachers are unqualified as compared with 36 percent
of urban or town area teachers.
22.   Another issue is the relative growth of the teaching service.  Although
no recent comprehensive data is available, fragmentary evidence indicates that
a high proportion of primary teachers are under 30 years of age. In 1979/80,
48Z of primary teachers were under 25 and 83% were under 35 years of age;
these percentages were roughly equally distributed between urban and rural
schools. More recent data indicates that the age profile has changed little
in the past decade. In 1991, 72% of those teachers applying for BTTC entry
were 30 years of age while 922 were under 40 years of age.
23.   The limited access to teacher training has resulted in demoralization of
young teacher3, continual exploration of career opportunities outside
teaching, and further teacher attrition. Consequently, it is clear that
increased access to teacher training represents a long-term investment in the
improved quality of primary education.
B. Goals of the New System
24.   Thus, the overall goal of the new system of teacher training is to
establish a structure of support, qualifications and incentives which will
permit Belize to improve the competence of its teachers and to reinforce their
professional identities, and to attain more efficiently and then maintain a
fully trained teaching force. This will be achieved by: strengthening the
capacity of the BTTC and other units like CDU to deliver training in the
Districts and to provide support for teachers; putting greater emphasis on
training in professional skills; undertaking a program of professional
upgrading; and introducing mandatory pre-service training for new teachers.
These goals will be achieved within the constraints on recurrent education
finance.



- 43 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 19
C. Structure of the New System
25. The new system will be characterized by a revised strutcture for training
and qualification which will be achieved through full-time or part-time
routes. This is summarized in Figure 1. The JBTE course will be phased out.
In its place a Diploma in Teaching will be introduced. The Diploma will have
two levels, Level 1 and Level 2, known as Diploma in Teaching Level 1 (DipTL1)
and Diploma in Teaching Level 2 (DipTL2). The nature and orientation of these
courses are given below.
26.   The DipTL1 can be attained through one of three routes.  First, a new
teacher can receive it after taking a year-long pre-service training course
and completing one semester of practice teaching (on full pay as a teacher).
Second, a serving teacher can receive it by undertaking a one-year full-time
in-service course accumulating practice teaching. Third, a serving teacher
can attain it after taking a part-time two-year course.
27.   The part-time two-year course leading to DipTL will be structured in two
parts. The first year of part-time study will lead to a Professional Studies
Certificate (PSC). The second year of study will lead to a DipTLI. A
secondary goal of the Ministry will be to maximize the number of untrained
teachers who acquire the PSC. This arrangement will enable teachers to
immediately increase the range of their skills and thereby increase their
effectiveness in the classroom with attendant recognition from Government for
salary and qualification purposes. The scheduling of the second year of the
PSC will be determined by teachers' performance in the first year, individual
teachers' circumstances, and government priorities and requirements.
DIPLOMA IN        DIPLOMA IN
IEACHING          TEACHING
LEVEL I           LEVEL II
1 year full-
time in-service
Untrained         1 year part-       1 year part-             1 yr. full-
Teacher          time leading        time leading             time in-
to Professional    to Professional          service
Studies Part l     Studies Part 2
New               1 year tull-time pre-service
Teacher
Figure 1:  Proposed Structure of Training and Qualifications



- 44 -
ANNEX S
Page 7 of 19
28.   Figure 2 shows the pattern of delivery of the part-time course.  It can
be seen that each year, two intra-mural sessions of three weeks each are
included at BTTC.  The first starts and the second concludes the year's study.
In between teachers will attend workshops and tutorials at Education Centers
in their district for four days each month. These sessions will be used to:
(i) monitor progress in self-study, and (ii) set work programs and targets to
subsequently guide teachers in the classroom.  A teacher supervisor will be
selected from the Dictrict Team cadres which will consist of BTTC staff, VSOs
and experienced principals and teachers. These supervisors themselves will
receive training for this task. Further support for each trainee will be
provided in school by their principals who in turn will also receive training
in professional leadership and quality management.
August   3 weeks residence at BTTC
.   . .     I r
Total 6 weeks district workshops
July     3 weeks residence at BTTC
_                j~~~~Professional
_ St~~~~~udies
Certificate
August   3 veeks residence at BTTC
|TFotal, 6 weeks district workshops|
July     3 weeks residence at BTTC
Diploma in
- _ . ~~Teaching Level 1
Figure 2: Structure of Part-time Teacher Training Course
29.   The two courses will consist of approximately 9 intensive contact weeks
each. Total contact hours for the two-year part-time cycle, assuming six-day
(eight hours per day) weeks for the summer intra-mural courses, amount to
between 700-800 contact hours plus directed self-study of approximately 6
hours per week. The total study period for the two-year program will exceed
1,200 hours.



45 5
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 19
Diploma in Teachin- Level I
30.   The design of the DipTLI will draw on an evaluation of the preseint pre-
service one year program at BTTC. The present program has shifted the
emphasis towards teaching skills in the classroom and any revision of the
course contento will conoolidate this change in emphasin from previous
programs. In that the full-time and part-time routes lead to the same
qualification, the course content will be similar but take account of
individual trainees' needs and experiences, including any requirements for the
consolidation of academic background. For the full-time programs which will
combine classroom-experienced and new teachers, there may be some need for
separation. The material far the course, including any academic upgrading,
will be constructed in moaular form to allow flexibility of delivery and
opportunities for self-study.
31.   The first year of the part-time route, leading to the PSC, will
concentrate on the introduction and practical application of teaching
methodologies. This same material will be covered in the full-time DipTL1.
Material to be covered will include:
a. Lesson Planning and Preparation using Curriculum Guides
b. Classroom Management and Organization (furniture arrangemenr, group
work, classroom control, etc.)
c. Presentation and Demonstration (blackboard use, storytelling, etc.);
d. Multi-grade Teaching
e. Teacher-Pupil Interaction (questioning, discussion)
f. Project and Practical Work
g. Teaching Reading
h. Teaching Writing
i. Assessment
J. Identification of Learning Difficulties; and
k. Language
A cross-cutting component of program design will be the requirement for
Teaching English as a Second Language (TESL). This will include TESL
considerations in curriculum development, textbook analysis and utilization in
the classroom, and classroom teaching and learning strategies for TESL. A
BTTC and CDU staff member each will receive specialized training in order to
advise on incorporating TESL into teacher training program design and
implementation.
32.   Training in appropriate classroom teaching methodologies will focus on
the use of local case studies, exemplifying 'good practice'. This will
include the analysis of video-tapes of 'good teachers in action' in Belizian
classrooms and a study of transcripts of teacher-pupil classroom language to
illustrate TESL methods. The course will focus on mathematics and language
teaching and learning, but illustrate applications in other subject areas such
as science and social studies.



46 
ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 19
33.   The second year of the part-time course will build on the foundations
of the PSC, and will reinforce and extend the methodolcgical material therein
presented. The further emphasis of the second year will be on subject
teaching, stressing math and language, again with English as a second language
(ESL) as a major issue. Teachers would also be encouraged to self-evaluate in
the classroom and to take a wider view of curriculum development in the school
and nationally. Pre-service training will concentrate more on teaching
competencies, while the important academic deficiencies of in-service trainees
will be identified and remedied. Otherwise, part-time and full-time courses
will be the same and will lead to the same DipTLI.
Cooperation between CDU and BTTC: Course ..evelopment
34.   A feature of the course development process and the final content of
the programs will be its focus on familiarizing trainees with on-going
curriculum development in Belize. Trainees will receive orientation in
teaching the present primary curricula and be prepared for proposed curriculum
reforms. CDU curriculum developers will form part of the BTTC course
development teams. A BTTC/CDU steering committee will be established for this
purpose and related activit4.es.
Assessment
35.   A variety of techniques will be used to evaluate the performance of
trainees, including project work, written examinations and an assessment of
teaching competencies acquired during training. Emphasis will be placed on
the acquisition of teaching skills during the intra-mural programs and
subsequently during the 'internship period'. Teachers will be assessed
through formal examinations and classroom observation by supervisors at the
end of the formal training period and once again after internship. A key
element of the assessment will be trainees' competence in time-tabling the
prescribed curricula into effective schemes of work for pupils.
36.   BTTC staff, including the District Teams (para. 43), will receive
training in assessment of trainee teachers. These training sessions will be
designed and delivered by a newly appointed Head of Examinations, BTTC, who
will receive overseas training for this purpose. The Head of Examinations
will also design the Assessment components of the DipTLl and DipTL2 courses to
ensure consistency between 'theory' and 'practice' for trainees and their
supervisors.
Diploma in Teaching_Level 2
37.   The DipTL2 will be open only to the holders of the DipTL1, although
there may be instances where JBTE certificate holders would wish to
consolidate their experience and qualifications and special arrangements would
then have to be made. The aim of the DipTL2 will be to reinforce, consolidate
and advance the teaching competencies of DipTLI holders and, simultaneously
address particular needs of the education system as they evolve. Its
structure will include a core of advanced education studies based upon a
thematic approach including:



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 19
a. The School in Society
b. Communication in the Classroom
c. The Teacher as a Manager of Classroom Resources
d. The Needs of Individual Pupils
e. Language in the Primary School Curriculum
38.   Second Class anu First Teachers.  The project does not propose to
provide training and upgrading of these uncertified teachers, who form a
minority of the teaching force. Many are near retirement, and most
substantially fault academic standards appropriate for entry into the DipLTI
course. The MOE will investigate the appropriate means of assisting these
teachers to improve their academic qualifications and teaching skills. If
reserves permit, MOE could expand their adult and continuing education
programs, especially in the rural areas, to support less qualified teachers,
by holding extra-mural classes and developing academic and teacher training
self-study packets. Targets of the resources which are outside those provided
under the project will be determined by a Planning Unit study of the age and
academic profiles of the Second Class and First Teacher cadre.
Salaries and Incentives
39.   Teachers' Salaries.  The salary scale for teachers will be revised by
the end of 1991 and will include a new ecale 7.  This new scale reflects the
intermediate nature of the qualification between current First Class teachers
(scale 6) and JBTE qurlified teachers (scale 8). Teachers attaining the
DipTL1 would move to the new salary scale 7. In practice, because the scales
overlap, many serving teachers on scale 6 earn more than the first step on
scale 7. The Government already has an appropriate practice for the case
where an employee moves up a scale on which the entry point is lower than the
existing salary:  the nearest equivalent of the current salary on the new
scale is identified and an increment is added. Subsequent increments on the
new, higher scale are, of course, greater in absolute terms than on the lower
scale. Those who attained DipTL2 would move under the same conditions to
scale 8.
40.   Successful completion of the Professional Studies Certificate I would
entitle a teacher to two increments on his or her current scale.
41.   In addition, incentives for teaching in remote areas will be reviewed
and improved on the basis of a study to be carried out by the PU under the
project.
BTTC Staff Incentives
42.   The proposed reorganization of BTTC is designed to provide more
progression and promotion opportunities within the existing professional and
salary structure. This will include the addition of another Vice-Principal
post, an additional Head of Department post and the filling of vacancies at
the lecturer and supervisor level. The increased range of opportunities, with
attendant salaries, is designed to provide incentives for BTTC staff.



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
Page 11 of 19
Additional allowances and training for BTTC staff, field supervisors, and
District Team members will be provided under the project to take account of
additional responsibilities and work loads associated with project activities.
Staffing the Delivery of Part-Time Courses
43.   District Teams.  The part-time courses leading, through the PSC, to the
DipTL1, are part of a policy to decentralize the delivery of teacher training
and support. In contrast to the current system which relies on BTTC steff to
provide both instruction and supervision, the proposed system depends for its
implementation on the creation and mobilization of District Teams, These
teams, numbering on average five per district (of which there are six), would
be composed of senior principals and teachers, as well as the District
Education Officer (DEO) and/or the newly created Assistant District Education
Officer (ADEO), and long-term VSO support; it will still incorporate existing
BTTC lecturers and supervisors. The leadership and management of the various
District Teams will be determined by team members, in consultation with the
MOE and the Principal of the BTTC. Leadership will be on the basis of
experience, ability and workloads and not designated on the basis of
institutional functions and responsibilities.
44.   Since the members of the District Teams will be practicing teachers
with teaching responsibilities, it will be necessary for them to make
provision to supply teachers to take their places during their absences from
school. As the process of training principals proceeds under the project,
District Team members will not need to supervise as intensively as in the
initial years, when it is envisaged that they would spend about one day per
trainee per month on supervision on top of the four days at the District
Education Centers. Adequate supervision of trainees is an essential part of
the training system, and is viewed as such by the Ministry.
45.   The overall supervision of in-service part-time training in the
districts would be conducted by a BTTC staff member, who would be in charge of
each District Team. During the summer residential courses District Team
members would participate in the training courses in BTTC, while the BTTC
staff reeponsible for district training would make regular trips to
participate in the delivery of the district workshops and seminars, as well as
visit schools. BTTC has made provision for 6 staff to devote themselves to
the overall supervision and coordination of the program, and their posts Will
involve considerable travel. Again, with the successful consolidation of the
skills of the District Teams and principals, this role could well be reduced
in the future.
Recruitment of Trainees
46.   Part-Time Trainees.  For the most part, trainees in the two-year part-
time course will be drawn from existing First Class teachers and high school
graduates. Selection criteria will be flexible, but in the initial years an
effort will be made to ensure that all schools have a core of trained teachers
with an emphasis on PSC holders. Other criteria will include the recom-
mendations of principals, the level of current academic achievement and



- 49 -
ANNEX 5
Page 12 of 19
particularly, in earlier years, geographic considerations leading to ease of
program management. Supervision of teachers would be unnecessarily
complicated if the supervisors are widely dispersed.
47.   Full-Time Trainees.  The selection of full-time in-service DipTLI
trainees would be weighted in favor of those with the highest academic
credentials, and include the criteria set forth above. Pre-service applicants
will be interviewed and given a short test. The recently established Planning
Unit in the Ministry of Education will annually forecast teacher requirements,
and will provide BTTC with numerical guidelines. DipTL2 trainees would be
selected according to demand in the system for senior specialist skills.
Efficiency Gains
48.   The new system will increase the annual output of trained teachers
after a shorter training period. The project will invest in the upgrading of
untrained teachers which will then allow the Ministry to sustain a steady-
state system with a trained teaching force. Projections show that intake into
the pre-service course should meet the requirements for new teachers, and that
since untrained teachers are restricted from entering the system (though there
will always be circumstances where some untrained teachers will be recruited)
requirements for the in-service award of basic teaching qualifications will be
significantly reduced. The training system would concentrate on pre-service
training, in-service support, and higher level training.
49. The most immediate efficiency gain will be the reduction from two years
to one year in the period of in-service full-time training, during which time
teachers are paid full salary, and, at the same time, the reduction in the
number of teachers taking the full-time in-service courses. Over time this
will affect the ratio of active and qualified teachers to pupils: at present
nearly ten percent of the total teaching force is being trained. As BTTC
concentrates its efforts on part-time in-service training, the proportion of
overhead allocated to producing qualified teachers will fall in contrast to
professional development of already qualified teachers, reducing further the
average cost of a newly qualified teacher.
III. The Process of Introducing the Changes
and the Role of the Proiect
50.   The project will play a crucial role in introducing these changes into
the teacher training system. The focus will be on BTTC institutional
strengthening and development, and increased coordination with CDU activities
through structural reorganization, management training ,and in-country and
overseas staff training. The objective will be to improve BTTC's capacity for
intra-mural and decentralized delivery of teacher training, course
development, and materials production; and the monitoring, assessment and
evaluation of trainee teacher performance.



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Page 13 of 19
A. BTTC Institutional Development
51.   It is proposed that by December 1991, the BTTC will reorganize along
functional lines:
Proposed Reorganization of BTTC
Princlpal
Director                        Director
Intra-mural Programs                 District Programs
I     I       I    I   .    .   I
HI (Exams)    H2     H3     H4    H5                           H6
(Resources)
I     I       I
Lecturers                               Library       Resource
Assistant       Official
52.   The reorganization will require the following by the end of 1991:
a. the appointment of a second Vice-Principal of District Programs;
b. the redesignation of head of department responsibilities, including
those of Examinations and Resources;
c. a redesignation and re-organization of the physical plant, including
designation of a single location for library, resource development and
reprographic areas and specific office space for the senior management
team and technical assistance;
d. the refurbishment of the physical plant; early priority would be given
to senior managers and heads of department office space and staffroom;
and
e. team-building exercises designed to define and reinforce new staff
roles and functions.
Staff Development
53.   BTTC staff persons will require professional development so that they
might provide trainees with better examples of good teaching practice, and so
that they themselves become familiar in detail with syllabi, materials, and
appropriate styles and methods for teaching them. The project will provide
technical assistance to support this. The training will not exclusively be
conducted formally, but will aleo be built into the materials writing processs
as new materials are developed, methods of using them will be discussed and
actively tested.



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
Page 14 of 19
54.   BTTC staff will also receive training in management similar to that to
be received by principals and school managers. They will be key agents in
implementing changes in the system. At the same time, their working patterns
and job descriptions will be reviewed to ensure that they are consistent with
changes implemented. Management training will assist them to adapt to these
new changes.
55.   Study Tours for overseas staff in 1992 and 1993 will focus on the
management and organization of teacher education, especially of in-service
delivery, examinations, and assessment of teacher performance and resource
management. In addition, in October 1991 the Principal of BTTC will assist in
the evaluation of United Kingdom schools of education which are tendering for
the project's technical assistance contract. This study visit will provide an
opportunity for staff to familiarize themselves with UK developments in
teacher education.
BTTC Staff Utilization
56.   The restructuring of the primary teacher training will require
reassessment of the roles and functions of the BTTC staff. The proposed
reorganization (see para. 51) is the first step in this process.
57.   During the project's lifetime, when significant development activity
will be underway, it will be necessary to redefine the job descriptions of
Vice-Principals, Heads of Department and other BTTC staff. These revisions
will be determined thro,ugh a series of team-building exercises throughout 1991
and 1992. These will be coordinated by the BTTC Senior Management Team
(Principal and Vice-Principals, BTTC) with assistance from an outside
facilitator,
58.   The proposed reorganization plan is designed to minimize dissonance
between BTTC responsibilities during the development period and after its
implementation. Nevertheless, it will be necessary to continually review BTTC
staff utilization over the period. This will be the responsibility of the
BTTC senior managers in consultation with the governing body and MOE. For
example, it is likely that during post-project implementation, BTTC staff in
conjunction with District Education Officers and CDU staff will increasingly
assume quality management functions at the classroom level. In this case,
BTTC staff will require further training in quasi-inspectorate techniques.
(See paras. 72-73).
District Teams
59.   Alco supported under the project, District Teams will receive similar
traininig, which in come cases will be linked to the training of principals and
school managers. Training will concentrate on the areas of professional
leadership and tcchniqucs for monitoring and evaluating clossroom teacher
performance. The District Team members will receive on-the-job training
through participation on the course development team. Three VSOo will be
recruited in 1992 and 3993 to provide assistance, and where appropriate,
leadership in the training and management of District Teams. From September



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 15 of 19
1993, these volunteers will be located close to the selected District
Education and Resource Centers in order to support their managements.
60.   The Head of Resources, BTTC, will fill a support role in the management
and organization of the District Centers, linked to the VSO and local staff
network. ODA will provide books and teaching/learning resources for these
centers.  The support roles of the various institutions utilizing, these
Centers (BTTC, CDU, Government Book Store, Education Officers) will be
rationalized to maximize their effectiveness.
Course Development and Materials Production
61.   Under the direction of the Vice-Principals, two course development
teams (Intra-Mural and District) will be established in 1991 to design, plan
and manage the new DipTL1 programs. The Head (Examinations) and the Head
(Resources) will play support and advisory roles for both groups in the areas
of, respectively, teacher assessment and course materials production. Given
the common elements of the full-time and part-time programs, the senior
management team (Principal, two Vice-Principals) will manage the coordination
of the two task forces. The priority for course and materials preparation
will be the professional studies components of the part-time and full-time
course. Although the first intake into the part-time courses is not planned
until July 1993 (see below), much of the material to be used will be
incorporated into the pre-service/in-service full-time course, started in 1990
and to be fully developed during the period of the project. The courses will
be prepared by writing teams from BTTC and the District Teams supported by
Technical Asbistance. The TA Teacher Educator, scheduled to arrive in
February 1992, and one of the VSO team members, scheduled to arrive in
September 1992, will support and advise the development teams.
B. Program Implementation
62.   Table 3 shows the enrollments in each type of course per year, the
projected output of each type of course per year, and the total stock of
teachers by qualification. Teacher training ends under the project after
1996/97. Table 3 shows an annual total of about 150 full-time trainees in
BTTC. By the beginning of school year 1997/98, the project will have provided
places to nearly 1,000 teachers, which represents the total number of teacher
enrollments over the period less JBTE enrollments, which are not part of
project activity.



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
Page 16 of 19
Table 3: Teacher Training Enrollments, 1992-2000
TOTAL ANNUAL ENROLLMENT
1992-3 1993-4 1994-5 1995-6 1996-7 1997-8 1998-9 1999-00
Part-Time                                                                    TOTALS
PSI            0    60    60      60    60      60    60    60       420
DipTLI         0     0    59      59    59      59    59    59        353
TOTAL          0    60   119    119   119    119   119   119          773
Full-time
DipTLl        60    60   120    120   120    120   120   120         840
DipTL2         0     0    30      30    30      30    30    30        180
JBTE         142    55      0                                         197
TOTAL        202   115   150    150   150    150   150   150         1217
GRAND TOTAL           202   175   269    269   269    269   269   269         1990
63.   Table 4 shows the annual output of the system, assuming attrition of 2
percent per course per year. The selection of trainees and the appro-
priateness of the courses will be designed to minimize failure, which
represents a waste of resources. Were the current system of teacher training
to continue with its high repetition and failure rates, the maximum annual
output from a similar level of enrollment would be about half the level the
full-time course, or around 80 graduates per year. Although the level of
training will be somewhat lower, it will be more relevant, there will be
significant quality improvement and an increase in skills of the teaching
force.
Table 4: Teacher Training Outputs, 1992-2000
TOTAL ANNUAL OUTPUT (from previous school year)
1992-3 1993-4 1994-5 1995-6 1996-7 1997-8 1998-9 1999-00
Part-Time
PSI            0     0    59      59    59      59    59    59
DipTLI         0     0      0     58    58      58    58    58
TOTAL          0     0    59    117   117    117   117   117
Full-time
DipTLI         0    59    59    118   118    118   118   118
DipTL2         0     0      0     29    29      29    29    29
JBTE          90    74    49
TOTAL         90   133   133    147   147    147   147   147
Notes: Attrition rate from courses assumed at 2.0 2 per year.



t4
ANNEX 5
Page 17 of 19
64.   Annual output does not represent the total addition to stocks of trained
teachers because it is assumed that teachers taking the PSC proceed to the
second year of part-time training. The net addition to trained teacher stock
under the project will be over 700 teachers, as shown in Table 5. This
includes those being trained, shown in the table as additional stock in the
next year. This is to say that at project completion, the output from the
last year of the project would have joined the teaching force, but would not
include the JETE output obtained during the period of phasing out the system.
Given an estimated requirement of about 2,200 teachers in 1996/97, the
percentage of the teaching force as a whole having received training would be
over 75 percent. Most of tlhese, over 500, would hold DipTL1 certificates.
Table 5: Teacher Training Stocks, 1992-2000
TOTAL NUMBER OF TRAINED TEACHERS
1992-3 1993-4 1994-5 1995-6 1996-7 1997-8 1998-9 1999-00
No of teachers  PSI   0     0    59    60   61    62   63    65
with training   DipTLI  0    59   118   264   409   555   701   847
(includee some  DipT12  0   0    0      29   59    88   118   147
under training)  JBTE  984  1074  1148   1197  1197   1197  1197   1197
TOTAL Qualified Teachers984  1133  1324   1550  1726   1903  2079   2256
Total Teachers Required2034  2089  2148   2170  2224   2287  2355   2426
Qualified next year        202   175   180   180   180   180   180    180
Planning Training Targets and Locations
65.   The previous targets are only indicative of enrollment and output.  As
part of the project, a management information system (MIS) is being developed
and is located in the MOE Planning Unit. One function of the MIS will be to
collect data on annual teacher training needs in order to inform training
needs projections. The first data will be available in mid-1992 in order to
assist in planning the September 1992 BTTC intake levels and to project part-
time enrollment levels for 1993 and beyond.
66.   The MIS will provide data on the priority districts for in-service
delivery. The early selection of Districts will allow the Principal of BTTC
to prioritize in-college programs for teachers from those districts not
participating in the first phase of the district INSET program. This will
ensure equity in access to teacher training opportunities.
Recurrent Bud'et Implications
67.   MOE expenditure on salaries will rise within manageable limits as more
teachers are qualified more quickly because of the lower level (scale 7 as
opposed scale 8) of a newly qualified teacher's salary scale, and because of
the longer part-time training period. The Ministry of Finance currently
budgets a norm of 4 percent for the annual increase in the total primary
teacher salary bill, covering wage drift and newly trained teachers' movement



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 18 of 19
to new scales.  It is estimated that the average rate of annual growth of the
primary teacher salary bill will rise between 1 and 2 percent per year to rest
between 5 and 6 percent per year during the period of upgrading, and will then
fall as most teachers receive incremental rather than scale changes. The
effect on the total Ministry budget will be between 0.5 and 1 percent per
year.
68.   The staff/student ratio of BTTC would rise as the changes take effect.
However, uncertainty over the numbers of pre-service trainees has already been
noted, as well as development activities of the staff. Six staff supervisors
would be allocated to development and management of the district-based
coursas, and the overall staff/student ratio for full-time staff would be
abr4t 10:1.  Allowance for sabbatical absences and other out-of-college
training would yield a ratio of about 12:1. Staff utilization would be
reviewed during the course of the development period and appropriate measures
taken to ensure efficiency.
Technical Assistance
69.   Technical assistance (TA) under the project will be provided by ODA
through a major UK school of education. This will be an integrated package of
support for teacher education, curriculum development, assessment and
examinations, and planning. The management and operations of the TA inputs
will be formalized in order to maximize coordination of inputs and guarantee
complementarity and consistency of project activities.
70.   Support for teacher education will consist of:
a. a teacher educator (24 mm) located at BTTC
b. short-term TA (6 mm) focusing on delivery mechanisms at the district
level
c. UK and in-country training for management training,
examinations/assessment and resource management
d. book aid for primary schools (teachers and pupils materials) and the
district resource centers; and
e. VSOs (72 mm) for course development, District Team
participation/leadership and resource center management
71.   To coordinate technical assistance for teacher education, curriculum
development and assessment/examinations, a formal Project Steering Committee
will be established for these three areas. The Committee will consist of the
Principal of BTTC, the Head of CDU, the two long-term TA and other senior
managers.
Sustainabilitv
72.   The proposed reorganization of BTTC and formalized cooperation with CDU
is designed to ensure sustainability of institutional functions beyond the
project lifetime. The increased capacity of the outreach functions of BTTC
will sustain the development and delivery of general in-service teacher
education (focusing on curriculum adoption and quality maintenance), in



- 56
ANNEX 5
Page 19 of 19
cooperation with CDU. The training for principals, focusing on school
management and teacher supervision, will ensure further quality maintenance.
73.   The development of a staff cadre in BTTC, CDU and the Examination Unit
with skills in teacher supervision, classroom ol'servation techniques, and
curriculum design and development will provide for a quasi-Inspectorate.
Teams from these institutions, in conjunction with MOE staff and District
Education Officers, will have the capacity to conduct whole school reviews as
part of the quality monitoring function of the Ministry.



BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRIMARY SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM: School Facilities Improvement ProRram (SFIP)
Srl.   Schools             Location        District      Management   Type of    I of New    Re-
t    ___________________    _______________                           Civil   Wrk  Classrooms  marks
1.    All Saints           Belize City     Belize        Anglican     Extension        8      Urban
2.    Ebenezer Inf.        Belize City     Belize        Methodist    Ext/Renov        8      Urban
3.     Ebenezer Prim.      Belize City     Belize        Methodist    Ext/Renov        6      Urban
4.     Lake Indepnd. Low   Belize City     Belize        Methodist    New              2      Urban
5.     Lake Indepnd. Prim  Belize City     Belize        Methodist    New              2      Urban
6.     Maskall             Maskall         Belize        Roman Cath.  Ext/Renov        2      Rural
7.     Queen Sq. Middle    Belize City     Belize        Anglican     Renov.           -      Urban
8.     St. John Vianney    Belize City     Belize        Roman Cath.  New              8      Urban
9.    Willows Bank        Willows Bank    Belize         Anglican     New              3      Rural
10.    San Francisco      Orange Wlk Twn  Orange Walk   Roman Cath.  Extension        6       Urban
11.    San Pablo          Orange Wlk Twn  Orange Walk   Roman Cath.  Ext/Renov        6       Rural
12.    Independence       Stann Creek      Stann Creek   Roman Cath.  New             15      Rural
13.    San Roman Infant    Stann Creak     Stann Creek   Roman Cath.  New             5       Rural
14.    Silk Grass         Stann Creek      Stann Creek   Methodist    New             4       Rural
15.    Pueblo Viejo       Pueblo Viejo    Toledo         Roman Cath.  New             5       Rural
16.    San Antonio         San Antonio     Toledo        Roman Cath.  Extension       4       Rural
17.    San Jose           Toledo           Toledo        Roman Cath.  Extension       4       Rural
N >
18.    San Miguel         Toledo          Toledo         Roman Cath,  New             6       Rural
19.    St. Peter Claver    Toledo          Toledo        Roman Cath.  Ext/Renov       6       Urban        x
105o
_ _ i _   . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   . _ _ _ _ _ _ _   . _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _91



- 58 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Textbook Program
1.    Introduction.  The proposed Primary Education Development Project aims
to effect substantial improvements in the quality of primary education in
Belize by: (a) upgrading the knowledge, skills, and overall competence of
primary school teachers, (b) improving the quality and availability of
educational facilities and resources for both teaching and learning, and (c)
strengthening the planning and management of education to enable Government to
improve the cost-effectiveness of its expenditures and maximize returns on
educational investments.
2.    The proposed textbook program is a key element in the strategy to
improve the resources available in the classroom for teaching and learning.
Although there has been no study of textbook availability in Belize, it is
generally accepted that there is a serious shortage of textbooks in Belize's
primary schools, especially in rural and remote areas, but also in many urban
schools. However, the situation is beginning to improve. The Books for
Belize program administered by the Ranfurly Library Service has helped make
textbooks available for sale in Belize. But even with a substantial
government subsidy, relatively few parents appear to have purchased them. The
poor sales may be because the program has not been well publicized. Other
factors include parental apathy, inability to pay and weak sales promotion by
the DFOs. The BRC Printing in Benque Viejo also sold primary school textbooks
thro.ghout Belize--about 52,000 copies over the past 15 months--many at highly
subsidized prices due to the help of CODE.
3.    Textbook Policy.  The Government has taken important steps over the past
year in defining a textbook rationalization policy. In accordance with this
policy MOE has approved a fixed number of books for each grade level and
subject, limiting the number of alternatives to three books for each grade and
subject. It has established criteria against which books will be chosen in
the future and has planned to include approved textbooks in the curricula for
training teachers. The ultimate aim of government textbook policy is to make
a basic set of textbooks available at affordable prices to all students.
While achieving that objective will take time, there are measures which the
Government can take to greatly improve the availability of textbooks in the
school, through a textbook loan system. The loan system would not replace the
current arrangement for selling textbooks, but rather suDiplement it to enable
all of Belize's primary school students to have access to school textbooks.
4.    Textbook Loan System.  Under the proposed program, MOE would provide a
basic set of textbooks/workbooks to students for a nominal annual fee per
book. The basic set would consist of books on math, English, and reading.
Textbooks on social studies, being prepared by the CDU, would be added to the
basic list, when available. TESL readers prepared by the CDU for the 7 to 9
age group would also be included in sets for schools requesting them. The



- .59 -
b~~ .
Page 2 of 4
textbooks would be loaned to parents for the school year on the understanding
that they keep the books in good condition and return them at the end of the
year. Parents would be charged a replacement fee for lost or seriously
damaged textbooks. The textbook loan fees would be collected by
teachers/principals and then kept in a Bank account by the principal for use
in purchasing textbooks or other books for the school. The principal of each
school would be accountable to the DEO for the funds. When parents cannot
afford to pay even the nominal fee, children will not be deprived of
textbooks. However, income from sales will thereby be reduced, and the school
will have less to purchase other educational materials.
5.    Distribution Arrangements.  MOE would be responsible for purchasing ar.d
distributing the textbooks for the loan system. In order to determine the
quantities of each textbook to be purchased, MOE would consult each school
principal on preferences. Selections would be made by the school principals
from the official textbook list (para. 3) and forwarded to MOE for
compilation. The purchasing would be done in bulk quantities to reduce costs,
allowing sufficient lead time to ensure that they are distributed to the
schools by the beginning of the school year. A possible schedule might be as
follows:
Tasks                                        Dates
Send textbook lists to principals           January/February
Compile textbook selections and place
orders with publishers                      February/March
Receive books and distribute to schools    May/June
Books distributed to students               September
6.    The textboo-ks for the loan system would be distributed by the Government
Bookstore throug,. the District Education Officers (DEOs). The Bookstore would
fill the orders for each school in a district and send them on to the DEOs for
distribution to the principals. The Bookstore would use a private trucking
company to distribute the books to the DEOs. The DEOs would be assisted by
the managers of the denominational schools, principals/teachers and parents to
deliver the books to the schools as soon as possible. Storage facilities
would be identified in each district to accommodate the quantity of books to
be distributed to the schools.
7.    Management and Administration.  The proposed system would be managed as
follows:
- The CEO, with the advice of the Textbook Policy Committee and the
managers of the church schools, would provide policy and operational
guidance to the manager of the textbook program. The CEO woulds (a)
approve the official list of textbooks; (b) set the ratio of textbooks
to students; (c) set the loan fees for textbooks; (d) approve the



- 60 -
Page 3 of 4
quantities of textbooks ordered by MOE; and (e) monitor the operation of
the program and report to the Minister;
- The Manager of the Government Bookstore would manage the textbook
program. Her main tasks would be to: (a) prepare annual implementation
plans and budgets for the textbook program; (b) collect data on textbook
needs and analyze results; (c) arrange bulk purchasing of textbooks from
publishers; and (d) receive shipments of textbooks from publishers and
organize their distribution to the primary schools with the assistance
of the DEOs.
- A VSO would be assigned for an initial two-year period to assist the
Manager of the Government Bookstore in planning, implementing and
monitoring the textbook program;
- The PIU would provide technical support to the Manager in the planning
and implementation of the program;
- The DEOs would have three main responsibilities: (a) to assist the
Manager in collecting and tabulating information on the textbook needs
of all the primary schools in their district; 'b) to distribute the
textbooks to the schools; and (c) to monitor the collection and use of
the loan fees paid to principals;
- The principals would have the following responsibilities: (a) to
inform the DEOs of their textbook selections and quantities needed to
ensure at least one set of textbooks for every two students in their
schools; (b) to distribute the textbooks in their schools and collect
the loan fees from parents; (c) to maintain accounts of the fees and use
them for purchasing other educational materials such as workbooks for
their schools; and (d) to report to the DEOs on the loan fees collected
and their use.
8.    Quantities.  The annual quantities of textbooks distributed by MOE would
depend upon four factors: the costs of the textbooks/workbooks, book life,
book to student ratios, and the education budget. If MOE were to adopt the
loan system, it could begin in 1991/92 by providing each primary school with a
basic set of textbooks for 1 of every 3 students. The estimated replacement
costs would be about BZ$375,000 per year, if all books had to be replaced in
1992/93. However, it could be substantially less if the book life could be
extended beyond one year. It is important to note that the proposed ratio for
the loan system would not likely discourage parents from buying their own
copies of textbooks. If they can afford it, parents would prefer that their
children have their own books rather than share them with other children.
Where this happens, the ratio of books to children would greatly improve.
9.    The proposed textbook program %rould make use of the unsold textbooks
frowm the Books for Belize Program9 as well as the income from post sales to
purchase new books. All the DEOs have inventories which need to be taken into
account in planning the distribution. In estimating quantities of books for



- 61 -
Page 4 of 4
purchase, MOE must also take into account those schools where teaciers are
already using BRC textbooks and wish to continue to do so.
10.   Prolect Assistance.  The proposed project would provide three types of
assistance: (a) technical assistance by a textbook specialist to help MOE
complete the design, implement and monitor its textbook program; (b) a VSO,
Textbook Supply Assistant to assist the manager of the Government Bookstore
with all aspects of the program; and (c) financial assistance to enable MOE to
phase in budgetary support for textbook purchases and distribution costs over
a five-year period at the rate of 20 percent annually beginning in the 1992/93
school year. The estimated cost of the scheme in the first five years,
including all contingencies, would be roughly BZ$2.50 million (US$1.25
million) according to the following schedule:
1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   Total
External Funding        495      396        297        198        99        1,485
MOE Recurrent Budget    -         99        198        297        396        990



- 62 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Education Planning Unit
1. Background
1.    The Ministry of Education (MOE) established a Planning Unit (PU) in
1990. The Deputy Chief Education Officer (DCEO), who has responsibility for a
number of other areas including Curriculum Development and Examinations, was
assigned to head the Unit. The MOE has established one position for a planner
and is due to establish a second. The Unit has been supported by the ODA with
technical assistance from a statistician.
2.    Statistics.  Data on education in Belize has always been inadequate.
Until 1986/87, basic data on enrollments has been collected by the Central
Statistics Office (CSO). The Ministry then received assistance in
establishing a statistical system from USAID. The Belize School Monitoring
System (BSMS) was set up. However, for a number of reasons, in particular its
complexity, it has not been maintained. It appears that even enrollment data
is unreliable. Furthermore, it is uncertain how many schools and teachers are
in the system, and little is known about the school map: little information
is available upon which to base measurements of both the qualitative and
quantitative performance of the system. Financial data has been almost
entirely absent from the education planning system.
3.    Since September 1990 the Unit has concentrated on a simpler system of
management information (MIS). It has also been responsible for drafting the
National Five-Year Plan for Education.
2. Development of the Unit and the Project
4,    The project will support the Unit in furthering work in four areas:
(a)   Development of the MIS;
(b)   Strengthening education planning capabilities;
(c)   Undertaking special studies; and
(d)   Training.
5.    MIS Development.  The MIS system will cover all basic data required for
publication in an annual statistical digest. In addition, it will collect
data for MOE use. Some use will be made of existing administrative sources,
and other data will be collected in annual surveys. Annual published
statistics will :.Xnclude:
(a)   Total enrollments at all levels; at post-primary level by
institution;
(b)   Enrollments by sex at all levels;



- 63 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
(c)   Wastage and repetition at primary and secondary levels;
(d)   Primary schools by size, district, urban/rural, management;
(e)   Number of primary classrooms in use;
(f)   Number of primary schools with multi-grade teaching by classes
per teacher;
(g)   Secondary schools by management/district;
(h)   Number of teachers by qualification, by district, and by
management;
(i)   Pupil/teacher ratios by district;
(j)   Te:tbooks in use by district, and data on textbooks per pupil;
(k)   Examination results; and
(1)   Education expenditures including cost per pupil/students.
6.    The cycle of data collection is designed to fit into the budget cycle,
and is as follows:
September     Workshops for District Education Officers and Principals
to familiarize them with the system
Distribution of forms
October       Data collection
Submission of forms to PU
November      Data checked in PU
Data entry into database
December      Provisional key figures prepared
January       Completion of checks and database entry
February      Publication of statistical report
May-June       Feedback on system and modifications as appropriate
New forms prepared and printed for next round
The schedule for secondary school collection has yet to be established.
7.    Strengthening Education Planning.  MOE's capacity for policy analysis is
limited "y its resources to monitor and evaluate the range of activities in
the system as a whole. In particular, the country has prepared its first
major Education Plan which has established goals and targets to be achieved
over the next five years. Therefore the PU will require support in
strengthening its capabilities to monitor the progress of education
initiatives, provide feedback to the Chief Education Officer, and advise on
policy formulation.
8.    Apart from the HIS work, the PU will need to undertake appropriate
analysis to provide inter alia guidelines to the Teachers College on the
annual intake of new teachers into the pre-service course; enrollment and
other data to the Government Bookstore for its textbook program; date on
teacher posting for the principal education officers. The Unit's forecasting



- 64 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
capacity must be strengthened in order to enable it to accomplish routine
planning, as opposed to data collection, and daily tasks. The Unit will also
set up a mechanism by which a schedule of construction work can be properly
planned in conjunction with church managements.
9.    Special Studies.  A number of special studies programs are needed.
These include completion of the school mapping exercise, further detailed work
on education finance, a study of teacher attrition in order to determine the
annual numbers required for new teachers, and multiple-shift schooling.
10.   Training.  The PU staff will require training overseas in education
planning. In addition, training can be provided in situ which concentrates on
the particular issues described above relating to planning, education finance,
monitoring, and forecasting. The project will also support training for
principals and education officers which will ensure their commitment to
developing a sound base for data collection.



- 65 -
A-NNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Travel and Study Fellowships
A.   Teacher Training Component
Training Adviser (24 months) - would be based at BTTC to assist the
Principal in implementing the proposed reforms in the teacher training system
and provide on-the-job training for staff of the College.
Training Specialist (6 months) - would provide short-term assistance to
BTTC in the design and implementation of training in specialized areas such as
distance education and teaching English as a second language (TESL) geared to
primary school teachers in the districts.
Fellowships (14 months) - would support travel and study for selected
staff of BTTC to countries within and outside the region to learn about
teacher training and/or to acquire short-term training for their own
professional development at the link institution in the United Kingdom.
VSO volunteers (72 months) - Three volunteers would be assigned to work
at BTTC and in the districts for two years each to support the in-service
teacher training courses.
B.   Education Development Component
General Education Specialist (30 months)- would be based at the CDU to
assist with: (a) curriculum development and instructional materials
production, (b) development of continuous classroom evaluation, diagnostic and
achievement testing for feedback into policy analysis, teacher training and
curriculum/materials development, and (c) implementation and monitoring of the
textbook program.
Textbook Program Specialists (6 months)- would provide short-term
assistance to MOE on (a) textbook program planning, implementation, and
monitoring, and (b) textbook writing and production, (c) TESL materials
acquisition and production.
Assessment Specialistf (12 months)- would provide short-term assistance
on item writing, computer applications, and test design and implementation.
Fellowships (30 months)- would support training on assessment and
curriculum development, including TESL in the U.K. and travel and study within
and outside the Caribbean.



- 66 -
Page 2 of 2
VSO (24 months) - One volunteer to be assigned to the Government
Bookstore to assist the manager in planning and implementing the textbook
program.
C.   Planning and Management Component
Education Planner/Statistician (24 months)- would be based in the MOE
Planning Unit to help the Unit develop an MIS and school map, and to conduct
special studies.
Planning Specialist (6 months) - would assist MOE in conducting studies
for educational planning.
Management Advisory and Training Specialists (6 months)- would assist
MOE in improving its management in areas such as setting objectives,
monitoring and evaluating performance, and increasing motivation and staff
productivity; it would also help introduce improvements in MOE's budget
process, budget monitoring and accounting systems.
*    Fellowships (18 months) - would be used to train the planning
officers/statisticians in edue-ation planning and statistics.
D.   Summary
Teacher Training Specialist        24 months
General Education Specialist        30 months
Education Planner/Statistician    24 months
Training Specialists                6 months
Assessment Specialists              12 months
Textbook Specialists (*)            6 months
Planning Specialists (*)             6 months
Management Specialists (*)           6 months
114 months
VSOs                               96 months
Fellowships/Study Tours            62 months
(*) Asterisk indicates World Bank financing.



BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CIVIL WORKS
CY 92            93            94            95            96           97           [98
ACTIVITY
NEW CONSTRUCTION
1. Slte Selection      oo
2. Site Acquisition     o ooe
3. Site Survey & Soil Test  oc oo0
RENOVATIONI
1. Tochnical Surveys   00o 00
for Renovation
2. ProIimi'nsry Design*   oo0 0ooc 00 oo0
3. Final Drawings                     ooc 0    00°       ooc
4. Bid Documents'                    00  00   0oo                  |
5. Bidding"           |                            0         0
6. Bid Evaluation'            o             0       0 o
7. Contract Signing*                                0              1i
8. Nen Construction                           c       oo c oo0 oo0 oo0 ooC ooc oo0  0
9. Renovation/Extensions       0 0  0  00oo0oooo 
10. Guararitee Period           10   00 000  00 00 00 00I 00 00 00 00|
'Bank Review                                                                                                                             0 o



BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT
CY 92             93            94            95            96            97             98
ACTIVITY
1. Preliminary lists    -        --     
2. Final lists &           0000                                                 |
Specification
3. Bid Documents               00 ooc
4. Advertisement and              ooc        ooc               00|
Bidding*
5. Bid Evaluation*                    00         00               ooc
6. Contract Signing                       00        00                00
7. Manufacturing                           c ooc ooc 00  ooc ooc ooc     ooc ooc ooc
and Delivery
8. Installation                                     oo00           00            -
9. Guarantee Period                       _            oo0 ooc ooc oooc00o00c   ooc 000   oo010  00
'Bank Review
do1o



BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CY 92             93            94           j95            96             97            98
LONG TERM SPECIALISTS
1. Teacher Training Specialist  oo oo oo oo oo ooc oo oo
2. Gen. Education Specialist    oo 00
0o oo oo oo ooc oo oo0 ooc  00
- Textbooks
- Curric. Development
- Assessment
3. Educ. Planner/Statistician  00 oo0 oo0
oo0 ooc 0000000 oo0
SHORT TERM SPECIALISTS
1. Textbook Program Specialist o           0              0 o              
2. P'anning & Management
- Pilot multiple shift program ooc 00
- School facilities                       ooc ooc 
maintenance plan
VSO VOLUNTEERS
1. Teacher Training
- 8TTC (1)                           c0oo ooc        o      ooc ooc ooc 00o 0  00 00 00 00 00 00  00 000 00  
- District Centers (2)                           oo0 ooc oo0 0  ooc oo0   ooc ooc ooc00  ooc ooc oo0 oo0 oo000  00
2. Bookstore Management      oococ 00000000 000 000                                                                                              1
OTHER                                                                              j         0                    0                           0 0
Training Fellowships              0  0  0  0        oo00   00 0     00I  I     ooooc      ooc ooI 00 00 00 00 000 00cjoo 0 01                 >



- 70 -
ANNEX 1 0
Page 4 of 4
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPIMENT PROJECT
Implementarion Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(USS million equivalent)
Project             Pre-                            Project Year                          Total          Remarks
Element             Project         1      2       3       4      5       6       7      Payment
Loan Timin
SignlEffec/Cloae    xx            xx                                          xx
Works
Prequal/Bid/Award                 xx     xx      xx      xx
Construction                     0.55   0.71   0.80   0.71   0.6 7  0.63   0.59           4.66        LCB & shopping
XXmx    xXXX   XXX    XXXX   X3X    xXXC   XC
Maintenance                      0.03   0.05   0.06   0.06   0.06   0.06   0.06           0.38             n.a.
-xx,c  mcrcx     x     xxx 3oc mx      x       xx
Goods
Vehicles                         0.11   0.07   0.05                                       0.23             ICB
xx    mx        xx
Equipment                        0.11   0.12   0.14   0.20   0.18   0.13   0.12           1.00       ICB, LCB & shopping
XXXX      x    mx    m XX        =    mx3 XX 
Furuiture                        0.05   0.06   0.07   0.08   0.08   0.07   0.06           0.47             LCB
X      X       lx    XXC XX   mx    xxx
Books & Textbooks                0.17   0.18   0.19   0.19   0.20   0.21   0.21           1.35           Shopping
X3X    XmX    XDC      mX     XXXX    X       XXX
Consumable &                     0.03   0.03   0.03   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.04           0.25           Shopping
Training Material                  xx   xx   xx            x   xxxx   xx    mx
Service Contract
Architectural Fees               0.05   0.06   0.07   0.07   0.06   0.06   0.05           0.42             n.a.
xs  mx    x    x  mx   Mx Cx
Coneultancies
Technical Assistance             0.39   0.42   0.44   0.37   0.11   0.07   0.05           1.85           Shopping
xx    mX       XX      mcx      x      m0txx   mx=
Training                         0.11   0.13   0.20   0.27   0.28   0.28   0.29           1.56             n.a.
x=    mx        mxs:   xxxx    x       mx     mx
Miscellaneous
Incremental Salaries            0.04   0.05   0.06   0.07   0.08   0.08   0.09            0.47             n.a.
X       mx     mx      m      XZ   mx    Xmx
TOTALS             1.64   1.88   2.11   2.06   1.76   1.63   1.56          12.64
(Bank-Financed)        (0.89) (1.03) (1.15) (1.14) (1.03) (0.96) (0.93)    (7.13)



BEUZE
PRMARY ErcUClAON DEVELOPMENT PrOJECT
MONTOFUNG INDICATORS
PRDJECT 0L11PIJTS                              MONITORNG INDICTO                                                       TARGEr DATES
1. b_  asd  nbe of tachers taed                Cetfied bacint force icreased from 45% to 80%                          60% cerld by Dwc. 31,1995;
ad utsg   -     taching metiods                                                                                       80% cerltifed by Doc. 31,1998.
Z Enhanced  dW_mnm"
a Scloolf-c11  knpr_ved                      10S clasooms rshabatddconasbuctd                                       50 clasooms eehsbltdad by Dec. 31, 1993; 55 new
though ran _,do. emtnsions                                                                                          olaroomsconstucd by Dec. 31. 1996.
wnd new condumlon
b. Reduction of owarrowd                     InngWa pocm  for 3 uibn schoolb                                         i on f plot scheme In Sepmber 1993 school
hI selcwed cools through                                                                                            year, continuation and expansion  jct to plot rewu
c. School Faces MainAlnance Progrn n  pac   Prepahraton o1 School Facties Maintenanco Plan erd                      By December 31,1992
annual hnesment budget Increas to USS30000 equivalent
3. New and rnsed curiula wnd teacig            Pimay school tebers using new & rised curricula in schools.            Infant I & 11 clases by September 30,1994.
guidne Inc& Vg TESL marIls, diseinatd                                                                                 Lower primaly classe by September 30, 1996.
snd used It   clwoom                                                                                                  Upper primay clams by September 30, 1998.
4. Increasd avbllt and use o'                  Pfimary school studet provkied basc st of textbooks.                   50% by Sept 30, 1993.
basdc texbo2ks In primay choob                                                                                        75% by Sept. 30,1994.
100% by Sept30. 1995.
5. Educeionsl Plannin  U   edseblsed,          E dabhnentof Managent Information Sysm.                                Dec. 31, t992.
dsalied. aid                                   Ann   s cal diged pntd & distributed.                                  Doc. 31,1992, and by Dec. 31 annuady tereafter.
School map                                                             Doc. 31. 1993.
Compleion of spcli tudis                                               PrImay Educabon Aseamnent (Basline), Jan. 31,
1993; 5-yeaswhool cnstrcion plan, Dec. 31,1993;
study on Teachers, Dec. 31,1994.
6. Inroducon ard use of national dIagnostic/chkve- Dagnolsot te desigd disseminated, end used                         BasIns by Dec. 31, 1992; lower grades by
mewt bs  and assenbt at lhe pdmary chool ble. In madh ad langue                                                       Sept 30, 1993; upper grades by Dec. 3t, 198.
7. Stegthened district.Ivel support serics     Constucion & eqippng of 3 new education center                         By Sept 30, 1993.
to schools                                     Provwion of books and other educatona matedale to al teacher resource centerm  3 Districts by Sept. 30. 1993.
DIdrict evel In-hrvice trainIg mechanism In plce                       Remfinlng dbisti  by Sept 30. 1994.
S. Stwngined managent of education sytm        Initl Insrvice trainIng for an primary school princpals competed.      Dec. 31,1995.
0 



BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forecasts of Expenditures and Disbursement
Disbursement
Bank Group                                                                          Profile (Z)       Semester
Fiscal Year              Expenditures            Disbursements        Cumulative   of Regional          From
and Semester          Semester Cumulative   Semester Cumulative   As 2 of           Education         Appraisal
----US$ Million----                               Total        Projects           Date
FY92
Jul. 91-Dec. 91                                                                                          1
Jan. 92-Jun. 92           0.82      0.82         0.50/a  0.50             7              3               2
FY93
Jul. 92-Dec. 92           0.82      1.64         0.39    0.89            12              6               3
Jan. 93-Jun. 93           0.94      2.58         0.52    1.41            20            10                1
FY94
Jul. 93-Dec. 93           0.94      3.52         0.52    1.93            27             14               5
Jan. 94-Jun. 94           1.05      4.57         0.57    2.50            35            22                6
FY95
Jul. 94-Dec. 94           1.05      5.62         0.57    3.07            43             34               7
Jan. 95-Jun. 95           1.03      6.65         0.57    3.64            51            42                8
FY96
Jul. 95-Dec. 95           1.03      7.68         0.57    4.21            59             50               9
Jan. 95-Jun. 97           0.88      8.56         0.52    4.73            66            58               10
FY97
Jul 96-Dec. 96            0.88      9.44         0.52    5.25            74            66               11
Jan 97-Jun. 97            0.82    10.26          0.48    5.73            80            78               12
FY98
Jul 97-Dec. 97            0.82    11.08          0.48    6.21            87            86               13
Jan 98-Jun. 98            0.78    11.86          0.46    6.67            94            98               14
FY99
Jul. 98-Dec. 98           0.78    12.64          0.46    7.13           100            100              15
Jan. 99-Jun. 99
0 Dao
Closing Date: June 1999                      a/  Special Account included



BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ million)
92    93    94    95    96    97   98    Total
A.   TEACHER EDUCATION
1. STRENGTHENING THE TEACHER TRAINING SYSTEM    0.16  0.25  0.30  0.31  0.20  0.10  0.04  1.38
2. TEACHER TRAINING AND  UPGRADING                0.03  0.06  0.13  0.22  0.22  0.22  0.24  1.12
Sub-Tot4l TEACHER EDUCATION                       0.19  0.31  0.43  0.53  0.42  0.22  0.28  2.50
B.   EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT                                                                                               L
1. SCHOOL FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT                  0.65  0.67  0.70  0.72  0.74  0.77  0.80  5.05
2. CURRICULUM AND TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT            0.33  0.38  0.43  0.40  0.27  0.27  0.26  2.34
3. ASSESSMENT AND EVALUATION                      0.05  0.07  0.07  0.05  0.04  0.04  0.04  0.36
Sub-Total EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT                   1.03  1.12  1.20  1.17  1.05  1.08  1.10  7.75
C.   PLANNING AND MANAGEMEIT
1. ESTABLISHING AN EDUCATION PLANNING UNIT        0.14  0.14  0.16  0.16  0.04  0.03  0.02  0.69
2. ESTABLISHING NEW EDUCATION CENTERS             0.10  0.18  0.21  0.17  0.15  0.10  0.06  0.97
3. ESTABLISHING A PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT   0.16  0.11  0.10  0.09  0.09  0.09  0.09  0.73
Sub-Total PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT                 0.40  0.43  0.47  0.42  0.28  0.22  0.17  2.39
lb D
aQ Z
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                    1.62  1.86  2.10  2.12  1.75  1.62  1.55 12.64
o 0
NOTES:  Subtotals may not add due to rounding.  Costs include taxes and duties.



BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
92    93     94    95    96    97    98    Total
I.   INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                        0.55  0.71  0.80  0.71  0.67  0.62  0.59   4.65
B. PROFESSIONAL FEES                  0.05  0.07  0.08  0.07  0.06  0.06  0.05   0.44
C. FURNITURE                          0.05  0.06  0.06  0.08  0.08  0.07  0.06   0.46
D. EQUIPMENT                          0.11  0.13  0.14  0.20  0.18  0.13  0.11   1.00
E. VEHICLES                           0.11  0.07  0.05  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.23
F. BOOKS                              0.02  0.02  0.03  0.03  0.03  0.03  0.03   0.19
G. FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                0.30  0.29  0.33  0.34  0.08  0.05  0.03   1.42                                 1
H. FOREIGN FELLOWSHIPS                0.07  0.09  0.10  0.08  0.04  0.03  0.03   0.44                                 -
I. LOCAL CONSULTANTS                  0.09  0.10  0.12  0.15  0.16  0.16  0.16   0.94
J. LOCAL FELLOWSHIPS                  0.02  0.04  0.08  0.12  0.12  0.12  0.13   0.63
K. TEXTBOOKS                          0.15  0.15  0.16  0.16  0.17  0.18  0.18   1.15
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                      1.51  1.73  1.94  1.94  1.59  1.45  1.36  11.55
II.  RECURRENT COSTS
A. PRESERVICE TRAINING ALLOWANCES   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.01  0.01  0.01   0.03
B. SALARIES OF ADDITIONAL STAFF       0.04  0.04  0.06  0.07  0.07  0.07  0.08   0.43
C. CONSUMABLE AND TRAINING
MATERIALS                          0.03  0.03  0.03  0.04  0.04  0.04  0.04   0.25
D. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE          0.03  0.05  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06   0.38
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                      0.10  0.12  0.15  0.17  0.18  0.18  0.19   1.09
(rti
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         1.61  1.85  2.09  2.11  i.77  1.63  1.55  12.64
NOTES:    Subtotals may not add due to rounding.  Costs include taxes and duties.



uaizc
PRIRY EWCTIN DEMLPNT PROXCT
finin5 Plan ov Sunary kcrmts
(US$ '000)
INURNATIUL    Overseas
aK FOR       Development
RECONSIRUCT iO    Admin-   ouvRnrn  w(
AN  DELWFNENT  istration   BELIZE                Total                   Local
--         ~~(Excl.   DuLis I
Awwt    2   Aamt  3    Aamt  2    Amt   I   Fore Exch. Taxes)   laxes
i. uwcSncz COSTS
A. CIVIL VIS                            2.794.3  60.0         -   -   1,062.9 40,0  4i657.1  36o0    2,017.0 2.546,2         93.1
B, PROFESSIONAL FEES,                     255,2  60,0         -   -      170.1 40.0    425.4  3.4         75,?   349.5          -
C. FURNITURE                              281,6  60,0         -   -      18.7 40.0    419s4  3,7         146,3   309.0       14.1
. EOUIPET                                 600.7  60.0         -    -    400.4 40.0   I.0OI.1  7.9        906.0    95,1          -
F. WHIILES                                137,6  60.0         -   -       91.7 40.0    2293   1.0        207.0    22.3          -
F. MNS                                   194,0  100.0        -   -          -   -      194,0  1.S       156.    37,1          -
G. FOREIGN C WI9TNIIS                    524.6  40.0   706.9 60,0         0.0 0.0  10311.4  10,4        916,7   394.7          -
H. rOREIN FELOVIISHiS                      51.2  10.0   478.9 90.0         0.0  0.0    512.1  4.2        470.5    53.6          -
I. LOCAL CWOLTANTS                        560,9  60.0         -   -    373,9 40.0    934.8  7,4              -   934,0         -
1. LOAL FELOWSHIPS                        379.   60,0         -    -    253,0 40,0    612,6  5S0             -   6326           -
K. lEXI3S                                 609.8  60,0         -   -    459.9 40.0  1149.7  9.,          929.6   220.0          -
Total IlUS1EiT CoSh                        6,471,4  56.1  1,265,8 11.0  3.7997 32.9  11,536.9  91.3    5.8i4.7 5,54.9    10702
II. KCIUET COSTS
A. URESENYII ThAWING AlLOVANCES           26l   60.0         -    -      10.0 40.0     269   0.2            -    26,9         -
t. SMARIES OF ADUTIONAL STAF             267.1  60,0         -   -      170.1 4000    445.2  3.5            -   445,2         -
C. CSN         18 MID V64IlN MATERIALS   149.9  60.0         -   -      100*0 40.0   e 249.?  2.0       201.9    43,        5.0
D. WERATION All MINIIANCE               229,4  60.0         -   -      153.0 40.0    382.4  3.0         75,7  m29l         796
Total RECIERENT COSTS                        6626  60,0         -    -     44U.8 40.0  '1204.4   8.7        277,6   81241      12.6                     t.
Total Dlsbursugt                            7.134.0  56.4  12265i0 10.0  4W241*5 33.6  12,641o3 10O    6,112.4 64009.1    119.9
I=,



ECIIZE
PRIMl  EDUCTIN l        U3Nf  MNOCT
Firarcind1 Plan bi ProJet conts
0S1 '000)
INTUlTIW3TL Oa
FOR RECONSTRUCTION  OERAS DEVELOPMINT
AnD DEVELOPMENT Administration GWINT    OF BELIZE                       Total
Local lExcl  Duties I
Ant         I         WAmount      I         ASmt         I        Agnt        I    For. [Ech.       Taxs)         Taxes
At TEAM   ECTION
1. STR11TH11N5  TIE TEADER TRAINIIlD SYSTEI           714,275.9  51.5       340,6371.    24.6      331991.5   23.9   1.386,905.3  11.0   838,982.3         536,760.1   11,162.8
2. TEAMER MINING AND IID1NG                           673.368,7  60.7                -      -      43V9397.6   39J.    ll17,766.3   8.8      31e115.5   1t086,267.1       383.8
Sub-Total TEAM   EDUCATION                             1392:644.6  55.6        340,637.8   13.6       771,389.1   30.6   2.504v671.6  19.8    870*097.8   1623,021,2   11,546.6                                0'
S. EDUCATION KWLPIJ
1. SCOM. FACILITIES ID'RIW T                        3,0234927.7  60.0               -       -    2,015,951,8   40.0  5039,879.5  39.9  20284412.3   2,68614.4   87,152.8
2. CIURICULUM AND TEXTBDMK UEULOPIU11               1.250,699.2  56.1       249,642.5   11.2       730,198.2   32.0   292310139.8  17.6  1#499t666.9        724,973.2    6,499.7
3. ASSESSRT AD EVALLtATIWl                            239M.98  44.4         200,194.5   37.1        99,561.2   10,5      539,548.5   4.3    339,595.7       198,455.6   1497.2
9b-Totul EIMIATIWI DCIPNET                             46514.419.7  57.6       449,636.9    5.8    2*846,311.2   36.4   7,6106567.8  61.6  4,123.374.9   34592043.1   95t149.7
C. PWLI AND mAAST
1. PLAbINO 1M111T AD  1MANEET STRENOIIENIIO           235,43.7  37.0        340,220.0   54.6        53.472,0    8.4      637,336.6   5.0    428,566.1       208,334,2      435.6
2. ESTARUSIUIJS  KE  EUCiATION CENERS                 627.841,9  64.5                -      -      344,982.6   35.5      972.B24.7   7.7    466p474.1       495*380.1   10969.6
3. ESTADI)'  ei A PrO.[CT IPLEMNTATIM Wll IT          363,481.4  50.B       127,076.2   17.8       225,329.3   31.5      715,8.9   5,7    223,044.5         490,275.3    1*767.2
SbTolal P l1I AND MRAEN                                1,2264967.1  52.7       475,297.0   20.4       623084.1   26.8   2.326,048.2  18.4  1,116BSC6.1   1I193*93M.6   13,172.5
Total Dis ursemt                                         74134.031.4  56.4    1.265.771.8   10.0   4t24IP484.5   33.6  12,641#237.6 100.0  6,112,358.8   6,409*059.9  119.868,8
________                                                                                                                                               H --   :=_  =   -_:__   ==:    =::::=:= _:==   ==_==:=  ::=======:3   = =:=  D =D> 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a'S



maIzE
PRIHWY EDCATIOiN OEWnLPN PRFIOT
Suari  A-cowit b0  P  J cl Cagw.t
(BZ$  '000)
PLAINING AND MMI W
TEfiR EDUCATION                   EMUCATION DEOLIE-N-
-ESTABLSHN1IG A              ftsical
SIRMTINC          TEACIER       SOO1      CURICLtm AIM  ASStSS1ENT  PLANNJING UNIT  [STAIlSHIIIS         MROCT                  ConLinsencies
THE lIADER    TRAINING PWID  FACILITIES       TEXIBDI         AND      AND WIGEHENT  ICV [C[AM10N  IWLENENIATION                 ----- ----
TRAINID1  SYSII  lFAtIING    IN       T&        DMELPE&NT    EVALUATION   TRENOTHENINO      CElTERS          UNIT        Total       I   Abat
I. INMS          CWSTS
A. CIVIL VM                                        729,4             -      0C054,3            246.2           -               -          652.1            40.0  7.79220   10.0   m.2
t. MESSI(W   FM                                     79,2             -        404.3              66            -               -           78.2             6.0     65,0   20.0    69.5
Co FUIITIE                                          64.0             -        60C.4             24.4       IS.O                -           50.2             9.0     787.0  10,0    78.7
O. EUJP10                                          320.0             -        908,1             97.7       139.0            33.0           9003            50.0   1.620.1  10.0   162m9
E. wHIratS                                          40.0             -            -             40.0           -            40.0          2Mo0             20.0    440,0    0.0      0.0
F. SC                                               50.0           0.2            -             50.0           -             5.0          180,0               -     315.2   1O.0    31.5
G. FOREIGN CLSTANTS                                700.0             -            -           520,0          0,0           600,0              -            60,0   2,120.0   5.0   116.0
H. F~IIIIEIGN FILOmiIIPS                           1                 -            -            150.0       150,0           200.0              -           200,0     920,0    5.0   46.0
1. IOtam  C1lSMlTA9                                24M0          596,9            -           250,0            -                                          675,0   1,545.9    5.0    77.3
J. LOdIL FalOlIS PS                                 15,0         832.0            -            IBO.O           -               -              -               -   14027.0   5.0    51.4
K. TEITIS                                              -             -            -            75.                                            -               -   17.0   10.0  107.5
Total IIIUES1TET co0                                 23122,3      1,459.0      9,052,1          3,4162,       684,0           2580         11200,5         1111210  19.335,1   893 1,59.,9
A. F'IV         1AuJ  M111U                           -          43.4            -                -           -               -              -               -      43.4    5.0    2,2
t. SlARIES E  A     fInlKL STrf                       -         274.5            --                       165.0           120M0          175,4               -     734.5   5,0    36,7
C. CNIIW    AN TU1    i      T    ATERIA              -          31.o            -           250.0         70.0            100            25,0            20,0     406,0  1OO    40,6
De WUATIUN Me UiMaI                                50,0             -        28000             12e5           -            25,0          1650              .0      607,5   10.0   60U8
Total IEINT  MMSB                                      50.0         3U48.9       230.0           262,5        235*0           155.0          35.0             95,0   171.4   7.B   140.2
Ttal SFLINE MOSS                                     2,362.3       2807,9       9.Y2 .1  373,4                29190          l,11.O          ,645.8         11224,0  21,126.5   8.2 1Soa
FhIical Cmatlinmln                                  104,3         9S15         833.2           314.2         59,2            57.3          131,1           W6,7   1.39.1   0,0        0,0
Price Conti km  its                                 227.2         334.1        914.4           415.6        101,9           104,4          160.0           151,1   2416,*   7M5   151.4
ToIt PBIC? cam         T!---                        2,M7.          2,235.5     10079s.0         4 462,3     1*079,1         1,274.7  -      12T45.6         f,431*  252192.6    7,6 1,9o.5-
in                  3;                      =tz =             Ug2"   g~3~Z=-  Z=3==2===2 33z; 5Q32S  33fl £S=
Tam                                                 22.3            0.0        174,3            13.0         3.0             0.9            21.9             3.5    232.7   9.1   22.8               x
Feo is Ezchrd                                     1,678.0          62.2      49560,2         2,922.3       672.2            05711          932,9           447,7  12,224.7    7,6  M52.a l-.
0 ___



- 78 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of I
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1 Belize Education Act, the Congress of Belize, April 24, 1991.
A.2 Belize Education Sector Review Report, Human Resources Division,
Country Department III, Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office, the World Bank, January 24, 1989.
A.3  Education Plan 1990-1995 (Draft), Ministry of Education, Youth,
Sports and Culture, Information & Broadcasting, Belmopan, June
1990.
A.4  "Ethnic Minorities in Belize:  Mopan, Kekchi, and Garifuna",
Richard Wilk and Mac Chapin, Cultural Survival, September 1988.
A.5 "Report on the Financing of Education in Belize", Perran Penrose,
-inistry of Education, the Government of Belize, December 1990.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1 "Proposals for Examination Reform in Belize", George Bethell,
Ministry of Education, the Government of Belize, December 1990.
B.2 "The State of Government and Government Assisted Primary School
Buildings in Belize in Spring 1992", Robin Ellison, Planning Unit,
Ministry of Education, the Government of Belize, Jane 1991.



IBRD 17093R1
W0''                             88'3:                              88 8                              B7- 30                OCTOBER 1983
V 30                                                                              to G  .  N  E x YCO                                              i8 30
r   m    E    X    c C      O       :st*@M(DMCorozal
;a-  .w.i   X  so^0E so
;  j Cee;n  r Oronge Vvolk
r    <         t<,-e < -                                    AMBERGRIS                                               a cc
sar                                 A-_  .   /   \              ~CAY
,*        t_ .         /       -e; -'v, E.     
.   .  r  y       v1      \         i                          °0 Soa Ped'o
""0'           Be(~~~ze
Csty                       TuRN'EFFE
BELtOOPAENIZ
Main Roods
Other Roads
_-National Capitol
@       District Capitals4
0       Ton  and Vdlloges
A       Mayan Ruins
V P 2~~~~ ~~Oge ~~District Boundaries
l?a'   P g' / -oge                             -  .-'  International Boundaries
0 1: j                                                                                                                                             E - 3,C
0  tI    20    30    40   50
KILOMPFER
MILES 6 'b                            o
i  j00's 003 .Et~ 05CM LAfl,p
SA;iODIsA CAYS            ~          '4O4'~'4s                              - 
>,on ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~EE-a'or- rObe 4^
_£Se   rE.'5C b<e-  B00 EOA A
CEUATE  MAt A                                         P4,,,0 Cones0 ~~HONDURAS            ---
!                                       t7%Dorigo,go~~~~~5



