Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19936
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BELIZE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3422-BZ)
December 6, 1999
Caribbean Country Managing Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Abbreviations
BNSE:    Belize National Selection Examination.
BTTC:    Belize teacher training College
CAS:        Country Assistance Strategy
CDU:        Curriculum Development Unit
CEO:        Chief Education Officer
CXC:        Caribbean Examination Council
DFID:       Department For International Development U.K. (former ODA)
GOB:        Government of Belize
MIS:        Management Information System
EMIS:       Education Management Information System
MOE:        Ministry of Education
PIU:        Project Implementation Unit
SFIP:       School Facilities Improvement Program
TESL:       Test of English as Second Language
DEC:        District Education Center
BJAT:       Belize Junior Assessment Test
BNSE:    Belize National Selection Examination
This ICR is based on a mission in September 1999 led by Jacob Bregman, Sr. Education Specialist. Other team
members were Nadeem Mohammad (consultant MIS), Alejandro Yepes (Operations Analyst, LCSHD); Marcelo
Becerra (Economist, consultant); Jaap Scheerens (University of Twente, Netherlands); Jim Hoffman (The
University of Texas at Austin, College of Education); Dardo Becerra (Architect consultant); and Jorgelina
Seminario (Secondary Education reform consultant), and Aracelly Woodall (LCSHD) edited and formatted the
report. Inputs provided by DFID (UK) are included



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Contents
Abbreviations.                                                                                       ii
A. Project Data.1i
C. Assessment of Development Objective and Design of Quality at Entry                  .3
D. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs .......6.................................6
E. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ........................................      12
F. Sustainability ........................................ 15
G. Bank and Borrower's Performance .........................................                        16
H. Lessons Learned ........................................                                         19
I. Partner Comments ........................................ 21
J. Additional Information ........................................                                  23
K. Annexes ........................................                                                 24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






A. Project Data.
Report date:        12/3/99
Name:               Belize Primary Education Development Project
Country/Department: Belize/LCSHD                  LC Number:   L3422-BZ
Sector/Subsector:    Education/Primary Education.    Region:     LAC
Key dates           Original            Revised/Actual
Appraisal           06/10/1991          01/10/1991
Board Approval:     12/10/1991          12/05/1991
Effectiveness       07/23/1992          07/23/1992
MTR:                02/01/1995          02/01/1995
Closing:            12/31/1998          06/30/1999
Borrower:                Government of Belize.
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Education
Other Partners:          Department for International Development (U.K)
Staff                         Current                  At Appraisal
Vice president                David de Ferranti        Javed Burki
Country manager               Orsalia Kalantzopoulous    Jacques van der Gaag
Sector Manager                William Experton
Team Leader of ICR            Jacob Bregman            M. Potashnik
ICR Primary Author            Nadeem Mohammad
Team Leader of Appraisal           --                  M. Potashnik
Currency unit: Belizean Dollar (BZ$)
BZ$1.00 = US$0.50
Fiscal year:    April 1 to March 31
School year:   September 1 to June 30



2
B. Principal Performance Ratings
Outcome:                                 S
Sustainability:                          S
Institutional Development Impact: S
Bank Performance:                        S
Borrower Performance:                    S
QAG  (if available)        ICR
Quality at entry:                        S                     S
Project at Risk at anytime:              Yes                  Negligible
Ratings:
S =    Satisfactory
HS =   Highly Satisfactory
U =    Unsatisfactory
HL =  Highly Likely
L =    Likely
UN =  Unlikely
HUN = Highly Unlikely
HU =  Highly Unsatisfactory
H=    High
SU=   Substantial
M=   Modest
N=    Negligible



3
C. Assessment of Develonment Objective and Design of Quality at Entry
CO. Education Sector Overview
1.   The System. The Belize education system consists of two years of pre-school, eight years of
primary and four years of secondary education. At the primary and secondary levels, education is
offered by the Government schools and the Grant-aided schools. Grant aided schools are privately
owned and managed but largely publicly financed. The compulsory schooling age is 5-14 years. At
the completion of primary education, Belize National Selection Examination (BNSE) determines
pupil's eligibility for entrance into the secondary school. Introduced under PEDP, the Belize Junior
Assessment Test (BJAT) is administered at the end of standard-3 (grade-5). Technical-vocational
training of varying length is offered to students following primary school or after three years of high
school. The tertiary level education provides two-year courses of academic and technical training.
University studies are offered at the University College of Belize, which offers first degree
programs in business and education. However, most students attend universities abroad, mainly in
the United States or at the University of the West Indies.
School Ownership
|Schools   Enrollment  Teachers  Government Grant aided   Private
Pre-school    173        3,634       196
Primary       249       54,600      2,054        17%        77%         6%
Secondary     33        11,720       754         30%        58%         12%
Tertiary     11 Total     3,483       233        36%        64%
___________    10  Colleges    _                 ._
2.   The  Management.  A   key                          Belize Education System
feature of the Belize educational
system  is the partnership  between                          BTTC, Ted&"cal Cdlege (BTC, NLrsing
School, AgnouAre Sdlod, Unrn\esity
different  religious  denominations                            Codlege, EmapanJr. College
and the Government in the delivery                                 TERTIARY
of primary and secondary education          Age Years        C    Fribbem EIantitiutions(XQ  Grades
through  denominational  or  grant-          16 4            C/re         \
aided schools. The role of churches          15 3                                          For3-4
in education and their relationship          13 1                  EC        \             Form-2
with  the  Government  was  first            1                                \            Form-I
formulated in 1962, which was then                     Belize Nationail Selection Examination (BNSE)
amended  in   1991   through   the           12 8                                          Standard-6
revision of the Education Act. Under         10 6                                          Standard-4
the  agreement,  the  Government             9 5        T       BASIC PRIMARY              Standard-3
establishes  educational  objectives,        8 4                                           Standard-2
pays teacher salaries, shares the cost       7 3                                           Standardn-
pays                             ~~~~~~~~~~~6 2                                 Infant-2
of   facilities   and   maintenance,         5 1                                           Infant-I
develops  curricula  and  standards,         4 2                                            Pre-2
provides   teacher   training   and          3 1                                            Pre-l
administers examinations.                  ___
3.    Current situation. Belize averages about 5-10%  of repetition rate per grade over the last ten
years at the primary level. A cohort analysis shows that repetition results in about 38% of pupils



4
finishing the 8th grade in 8 years, 30% in 9 years, 11% in 10 years and 20% in more than 10 years,
or dropping out. The input-output ratio is 1.4. The student-teacher ratio in the primary education
system is about 26/1. According to the school effectiveness study recently conducted under the
project, inequity continues to be problem at the primary level: (i) almost all primary school-age
children speak a different language than English at home and are likely to have a higher risk of
repetition and dropout, (ii) the BNSE results, at the end of primary education, determine access to
secondary education (about 34% net enrolment at secondary level), (iii) pupils from poorer
economic background generally attend schools with a lower public per student allocation, and
therefore may have less qualified teachers and learning materials, and (iv) there are significant
differences in access, repetition and completion rates among the richest and the poorest districts.
Net    Repetition f School size |Pupil/teacher
Enrollment   rate    (pupils    ratio
Pre-school                      37       19
Primary     85%      10%       218       26
Secondary   34%      10%       355       17
Tertiary                       250       38
4.   Cl. Original Project Objectives. The objective of Country Assistance Strategy in 1990 for
Belize was to develop its human resources, including institution building, which was considered
critical for a sustainable economic growth. As the first initiative in education sector, the Primary
Education Development Project (PEDP) supported the government's plans and policies for the
period of 1992-98. The objectives were identified and agreed with the Bank. However, PEDP
proved to be complex for the government to implement. In retrospect, the agreement on
performance indicators and their baseline values and targets were inadequate to measure
achievement of these objectives optimally. Three main development objectives for the PEDP were
defined to improve the instruction of Primary Education:
1) Introducing a new system for the training of primary school teachers in order to improve
the quality and relevance of the teacher training and increase tlhe number of teachers witlh
professional certflcation;
2) Improving thte quality, availability and efficient use of educationalfacilities and resources
for bothi teaching and learning; and
3) Strengthening tlte planning and management of education to enable thte government to
develop policies and implement programs to improve the cost-effectiveness of its
expenditure olt education.
C2. Revised Objectives. No changes in the objectives were made during the course of project
implementation.
C3. Original Project Components.   Project components were identified by the Ministry of
Education and agreed with the Bank during preparation. All components were relevant to the
project objectives. MoE completed arrangements for financial and implementation management as a
pre-condition to the effectiveness. The following components were included under each
development objective:



5
5.   Components under objective-1: (a) Increase the number of professionally certified teachers in
the primary schools. (b) Enhance the relevance and quality of teacher training. (c) Provide adequate
salary incentives. (d) Train school principals to provide instructional leadership at the school level.
(e) Improve planning and delivery of teacher training, and (f) Strengthen Belize Teacher Training
College through technical assistance and equipment.
6.   Components under objective-2: (a) Enhance school facilities through civil works, repair and
supply of equipment and furniture; (b) Reduce overcrowding through piloting multiple-shift
schooling; (c) Develop and implement new primary curriculum; (d) Provide textbooks and teaching
materials; and (e) Reform examination and introduce assessment.
7.   Components under objective-3: (a) Establish/Strengthen the Education Planning Unit in the
Ministry of Education; (c) Strengthen management; and (d) Build District Education Centers for
decentralization of education management.
C4. Revised Project Components. The following changes were made during project
implementation, including recommendations made during the mid-term review of February 1995:
8.   Under objective-1, component-b: Enhance the relevance and quality of teacher training: The
project started with Intramural (two years at BTTC plus one year in school) training package, which
was modified to level-one as extramural (1 year distance learning) and level-two as intramural
package. Qualification after Level-One was recognized as Certified (trained) teachers. The need for
change was recommended by assessment studies during the initial years of the project.
9.   Under objective-2, component-a: Enhance school facilities through school a improvement
program: A detailed school based facilities/building needs assessment (mapping survey) was
conducted by the MoE in 1995. Based on the recommendations of the report, the Bank and the
MoE agreed to increase the number of new classrooms from 50 to 131. Also the construction of a
number of District Education Centers was increased from three to six to support full
decentralization of education management at the district level. To accommodate for additional
financial needs the Government absorbed all recurrent cost of the component, instead of an agreed
fraction. In addition, due to additional grants from DFID, the loan savings from training, research
and study categories were directed to support classroom expansion.
10. Under objective-2, component-b: Reduce overcrowding through piloting multiple-shifts: The
component was dropped from the project implementation plan due to resistance from school
management. Bank supervision reports and MoE's progress reports do not follow-up on the issue.
C5. Quality at entry. The overall quality at entry was satisfactory. The Quality Assurance Group
has twice reviewed the quality of the project during project implementation and has rated its entry
quality as satisfactory.
11. Project objectives were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy and government
priorities. Project cost was based on market rates. A financial study was carried out to assess the
financing of education in Belize. Disbursement projections were realistic for different categories.
Economic and Social assessments were not required by the Bank at the time. Performance
indicators were agreed on and included in the SAR.
12. Preparation was in accordance with Bank guidelines. After effectiveness, the Ministry of
Education constituted a task force to conduct workshops on developing a logical framework and an
implementation plan. Some weaknesses remained in the project design as in the SAR:



6
* A time-bound implementation plan was produced only for the technical assistance and civil
work inputs. Interdependencies among activities were not clear. Overlapping of
roles/functions, relationship and coordination in curriculum development, assessment &
examination and teacher training components were not clearly pointed out.
* The breakdown of components into detailed activities and the associated budget was not done.
The plan was difficult to understand.
* Monitoring and Evaluation activities were not built into project components.
13.  Relevant external factors. PEDP was the first project in the education sector. Lessons learned
were derived from the experience in other Caribbean countries. The MoE did not have project
management experience, but learned by doing.
D. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
DI. Outcome of Objectives. This section provides an assessment of the project outcome, i.e.,
degree to which the project achieved its relevant objective. This is judged by the standards
prevailing at the time of the ICR, not those at the time of the loan approval. Overall achievement of
development objectives is satisfactory.
14.   The objective of improving quality & relevance of teacher training and the quantity of
certified teachers was partially achieved. The following have been contributing factors:
(a) The new in-service teacher training curricula and delivery program was successfully
developed and implemented. According to the classroom assessment study, the teachers trained
through new in-service program have demonstrated a higher level of teaching skills. This
includes monitoring and supervision in their own classrooms, demonstrating a variety of
pedagogical approaches with range of self-produced teaching materials, group-work, relevance
of work to content and a better practice of child-centered approaches.
(b) About 66% of teachers were trained by the end of the project, against 80 % as per SAR.
Two key factors were the continued recruitment of untrained teachers by school management
and the practice of assigning valuable trained teachers to special duties such as curriculum
development and field supervision. The SAR did not assess the implications involving
unavailability of pre-trained teachers and the measures to be taken by the Ministry of
Education in conducting a dialog with school management for the success of the component.
(c) To provide instructional leadership at the school level, training of school principals was
successful. Training modules were developed to include multiple grade teaching. The classroom
assessment study has identified that trained principals take the lead in staff development through
in-school workshops, delegation, monitoring and supporting classroom teachers.
15.   The objective of imiproving quality and availability of instructiontal materials an2d
educationial facilities was partially achieved. Performance monitoring indicators to effectively
measure the success of the objective were not developed at the beginning. The main reasons for
partial achievement are:
(a) The Ministry of Education could not fully implement a new primary education curriculum
during the project period, but only manage to develop the new curriculum for grades 1 to 3
(Infant-1&2 and Standard-3 classes). This is being implemented from the current school year
(September 1999). Thierefore it is not possible at this time to fully assess the success or failure
of the component's objective. The Ministry has reset the deadline for full implementation of



7
new primary curricula in all grades to year 2003. The first curriculum phase is successfully
achieved.
(b) The objective of providing access to a basic set of textbooks (including mathematics,
science, language and social studies) to one-in-three pupils in tlte primary schoolfor a nominal
fee was only partially achieved. About 30,000 sets of books were distributed to the schools thus
exceeding the targets from one-in-three to two-in-three. However, assessment of the fees
collected and its use for the purchase of classroom material was not conducted.
(c) All civil work targets of constructing and renovating additional classrooms and District
Education Centers were achieved. However, an assessment of current availability of square feet
classroom area per pupil is not available. On school maintenance budget, the Government has
allocated US$1.6 million per annum on average, as against US$300,000 agreed in SAR, which
is a significant contribution.
(d) The BJAT was developed and administered at the end of grade-5 (Standard-3) on sample
basis since 1996. The BNSE for entry to secondary education was revised to improve quality.
However, test results have not been used to assess tlte quality of education. Pupil's final marks
are given as percentiles. It is therefore not possible to assess performance of one set of pupils
relative to previous attainrnents or against absolute standards. However, comparison of 1992
and 1998 percentile BNSE results show almost no improvement in the success rate of any
percentile.
16.   The objective of strengthening government capabilities to plan and manage education to
improve quality, efficiency and cost-effectiveness has been partially achieved because of thle
following reasons:
(a) The Ministry restructured its organization setup to establish a Planning Unit with adequate
staff, budget and facilities. The Unit now includes four main sections including Education
Management Information System; Projects; Financial Management; and Research. All staff
positions are full-time, financed under GoB's recurrent budget. Six District Education Centers
were constructed and established. However, the Ministry has not yet clarified their role,
responsibilities, staffing needs and a realistic budget.
(b) Various in-country and overseas, short- and long-term training in education planning,
administration/management and supervision were provided to management staff from the
Ministry and the district offices under financing from the DFID. This has improved the quality
of "non-financial" planning and service delivery capacity in the Ministry.
17.   Annex 1 provides the comparison of 1992 and 1998 data on the key performance and
outcome indicators. The following section provides component-wise assessment of the project
objectives.
D2. Output by Components.
18.   Developn2ent and implem2entation of mnacro-primary education policies were satisfactory.
Major policy changes were adopted, including increased recurrent allocations from BZ$27million in
1992 to BZ$39million in 1999 for primary education. The MoE has shifted its focus to sector wide
policy development. In 1999, the new Government has approved its sector wide strategy for the
next decade.



8
19.   Progress in reviewing aind developing sector policy is satisfactory. In 1994 a five-year
sector policy document was prepared. Three main policy initiatives taken under the PEDP were (i)
decentralization of education management and administration to districts (ii) textbook provision to
primary schools, rationalizing cost, availability, quality, and relevance and (iii) change in policies
related to access by increasing space and reducing dropout rates by monitoring school attendance.
In 1998, under the new government, a strategic task force started the preparation of another sector-
wide 1 0-year reform plan, which is almost finalized.
20.   Achievements in financial objectives were unsatisfactory. Salaries remain 98% of total
education budget. About 6% of the GDP was allocated annually during the project period, which is
relatively high as compared to the international standards.
21.   As a first project in education sector, partially satisfactory improvement has been made in
developing institutional capacity. Restructuring and strengthening of the planning unit, EMIS,
improvement in management and administration, and strengthening of Belize Teacher Training
College achievements.
22.   Quality andfocus of performance indicators was higlhly unsatisfactory. Only about 50% of
the indicators were quantified. To measure student achievement, no quantitative baseline,
achievement targets, or procedures were set. To measure reduction of overcrowding in schools, only
a number of classrooms were quantified instead of setting achievement of minimal square feet
classroom availability per pupil.
23.   Achievements in phiysical objectives have been satisfactory (Annex 1). The following
section provides a brief overview of the output by component under each objective:
Components under the objective-1:
24.   Relevance and the quality of teacher training. There were no physical objectives relevant to
this component. However, launching the level-I distance learning program for in-service training
marks a major achievement in financial savings. This, in terms of average salaries paid to the
replacement teachers in schools, is estimated to be about BZ$1.2million per year (on average, using
first point in pay scale).
25.   Increase in the number of professionally certified teachers. Satisfactory. As per SAR targets,
700 untrained teachers were to be trained by the end of the project, thus increasing the percentage of
trained teachers to 80% by the end of the project. BTTC over achieved its targets by training 995
teachers during the project period. However, in total, only 62% of trained teacher population could
be achieved.                                                          r
26.   Provide adequate salary incentives to trained teachers. Satisfactory. The objective of this
provision was to attract untrained teachers by providing promotion in pay scale. All teachers
certified through the level-I program have been upgraded from pay scale 5/6 to 7. Graduates of
level-2 training and Sixth-form graduates have been placed in pay scale 8. However, the long-term
implication of the proposals for increments as incentives was not adequately determined during the
project preparation. Currently, Belize pays highest teacher salaries as compared to its Caribbean
neighbors (about US$9,000 per teacher per year).
27.   Training of school principals. Satisfactory. Training modules of Commonwealth Secretariat
for Distance Learning were modified to local needs including multiple grade teaching. The
program was introduced in 1996. Since then, 192 out of 205 principals were trained. With increase
in number of schools during p-oject period from 205 to 249, the net current backlog stands at 57
principals. Two key factors contributing to the unaccomplishment of 100% targets were due to (a)



9
practice of rotation in denominational schools by the school management; and (b) some principals
still in the process of acquiring prerequisites for admission (level-I training) or did not qualify from
the training.
28.   Planning and delivery of teacher training. Satisfactory. Planning and delivery functions of
BTTC have improved benefiting from twining arrangement with Bristol University, UK. Eleven
staff members were trained in supervision, administration and distance education management.
Supervision quality of student-teachers at district level has improved by involving supervisors in
course preparation, delivery and assistance to student teachers at local level.
29.   Strengthening of BTTC. Satisfactory. The college has been strengthened through the
provision of improved facilities, equipment, books, material and training. The major achievement
has been the establishment of six District Education Centers to facilitate in program delivery.
However, roles and functions of these centers still need to be defined and implemented. The
institutional capacity was developed through a twining arrangement with Bristol University U.K.
Components under the objective-2:
30.   School facilities improvement program. Higlhly Satisfactory. The civil work targets were
over achieved by constructing 131 classrooms and renovating 46. Adjustments in allocations for the
additional classrooms were made with the agreement of the Bank. This was possible because: (a)
DFID came up with additional grant after project effectiveness to finance training, research and
studies, (b) in certain locations lu.al community and school management undertook cost of material
and (c) GoB paid for all incremental costs as against a fraction agreed and mentioned in SAR.
31.   A school building construction/maintenance plan was developed and a full-time technical
specialist was appointed in the Ministry of Education for its implementation. Furniture and
equipment were supplied to all newly built classrooms. An equivalent of US$300,000 per annum
was agreed in 1992 for the maintenance of grant aided and government schools. After project
effectiveness, GoB allocated US$300,000. In the fiscal year 1998-99, the maintenance budget
stands at US$227,823 (including US$52,500 for government schools). On average GoB has
allocated US$1,607,824 per annum against the agreed US$300,000.
32.   Reducing overcrowding through piloting multiple-shift schooling. Highily Unsatisfactory.
The component was dropped from the project mainly due to the resistance from the local school
management. No follow-up was done by the Ministry of Education to figure out a mechanism in
piloting multiple shifts in some areas on a permanent or temporary basis.
33.   Curriculum development and application. Unsatisfactory. The objective was to review,
develop and implement a new curriculum in all grades of primary education by the end of the
project. During 1992 to 1994, the development process was slow due to overlapping roles,
functions and interdependencies of curriculum development, examination & assessment and teacher
training. The curriculum was developed vertically. As a result, not much thought was given to the
psychological, psychomotor or cognitive development of children at each level. The opportunity for
discussion of the revised curriculum among stakeholders had been missed.
34.   The mid-term review in 1995 halted further development/revision of curriculum and
recommended to re-do the whole exercise. Thus in 1996, a national task force was established by
the MoE to redesign the National Primary Education Curriculum. A four-part process was
developed to establish an overall policy statement, national curriculum specifications, an outline of
national primary syllabus, detailed schemes and units of work for use in classrooms.
35.   The structure of primary education was revised to provide for three divisions: (i) to include



10
Infant 1 and 2 and standard 1; (ii) to include Grades 2, 3, and 4; and (iii) to include Grades 5 and 6.
Development of curriculum for the first three stages (Division one) was completed in 1998 and
schemes and units of work were tested in about 60 primary schools. Trial results were evaluated and
a national training program for all schools came into effect from the current academic year starting
September 1999. Therefore at the time of this ICR, it is not possible to judge the outcome of the
new curriculum for division- 1.
36.   The development and full implementation of a new curriculum for divisions 2 and 3 is now
rescheduled to be completed by the school year 2003.
37.   Textbook loan scheme and provision of teaching materials. Highly Satisfactory. The main
objective of this component was to achieve government's goal in providing access to a basic set of
textbooks (including mathematics, science, language and social studies) to one-in-three pupils in
primary school for a nominal fee. Under the project, 120,826 books were distributed in primary
schools totaling about 54,000 students. This also includes about 40,000 books distributed under the
Commonwealth Debt Initiative using the same criteria but targeting poor pupils. About 30,000 sets
of books were distributed to schools thus exceeding the target from one-in-three to two-in-three.
38.   The policy of usage of textbook fees (paid by parents) for the purchase of instructional
material was adopted in 1993. A circular was sent to schools and reiterated in the textbook loan
scheme guide sent yearly to all primary schools. In addition, reading books for school libraries
were provided to all primary schools. However, the impact of providing textbooks and library
books and the utilization of book lending fees for the purchase of instructional material is not been
measured.
39.   Examination reform and assessment. Satisfactory. The objectives of the component were to
(i) develop and administer a primary education performance-measuring tool at the end of standard-3
by introducing Belize Junior Achievement Test (BJAT); and (ii) to review and improve the quality
of the Belize National Selection Examination (BNSE) administered at the end of standard-8.
40.   The BJAT was developed in 1994 and introduced as a tool for the assessment of
Mathematics and English. The test is norm-referenced and covers many of the basic subject areas in
the primary curriculum. Participation in the BJAT testing has been voluntary.
41.   BNSE was successively reviewed; items developed, piloted and administered every year
since 1993. Computer technology was introduced for the first time for item development, analysis
and results preparation. However, the quality of this work needs to be improved and further
applications added. Within the context of continuing educational development in Belize, it is
essential to develop an approach to assessment and examinations that goes beyond the limited
selection procedures of BNSE. A sound criterion referenced system capable of reporting on the
progress of each pupil, school and setting and of measuring national standards needs to be
developed.
42.   Changes in staffing and leadership during the project have been key factors affecting the
overall performance of the component. Much of the capacity building took place with key personnel
who are no longer with the unit. Attention to self-evaluation and improvements in planning at the
school management level, and to formative classroom evaluation came very late in the project.
Components under the objective-3:
43.   Establishment/Strengthening of Education planning unit. Satisfactory. The overall objective
of this component was to strengthen the planning unit of the MoE, which was established in 1990.
As agreed, the MoE had recruited planning staff in 1991 before project effectiveness. In the initial



I1
stages, the staff composition included a Planner, a Statistician and support staff. Based on the
recommendation of an information and decision-making needs assessment study in 1998, the
planning unit was restructured to include a manager for Education Management Information System
(EMIS) and a computer system administrator. The planning unit is now incorporated into a larger
structure of the ministry of education. The unit now consists of Projects, Financial Management and
Research sections. All staff positions are full-time, financed under GoB's recurrent budget.
44.   EMIS was established for the first time in 1992 by replacing the Belize Primary School
Monitoring System. A basic set of indicators was developed and annual data collection, processing
and publication started from the same year. This activity was centrally managed until the end of the
1998 school survey. From 1999 on, all data collection and processing functions are to be
decentralized to District Education Centers.
45.   EMIS data has been recognized as a single official source and is used for planning purposes.
Much evidence of its usage came out during 1998-99. To establish data quality and to measure
school effectiveness, a separate data collection activity was carried out on improved indicators in
1999. The result of the survey estimated about 90% of accuracy in the EMIS data.
46.   Strengthening the management. Satisfactory. The objective was to strengthen management
and administration practices at different levels of hierarchy by providing training and technical
assistance in planning and management. Over the project life, support for management moved from
the confines of the project towards wider sectoral development approach.
47.   Extensive technical assistance was provided under financing from DFID. Four people were
sent on overseas training in planning, management and evaluation/test development from the central
level. However, higher staff turnover in operations management continues to be the major
weakness.
48.   Building District Education Centers. Satisfactory. The main objective was to establish
District Education Centers to facilitate education management, administration and delivery of in-
service teacher training. All District Education Centers were constructed, staffed and equipped
under the project. Roles, responsibilities, processes and mechanism were developed. However,
clarification of job descriptions, roles/functions still need to be finalized and implemented.
Appropriate allocations in the government budget need to be re-assessed and finalized.
D3. Net Present Value/Economic and Financial Rate of return.
49.   A sector finance and fiscal analysis was done during project preparation, it did not include
many crucial aspects of a complete economic analysis. There were no data/studies concerning (i)
education rates of return; (ii) cost-benefit analysis; (iii) comparing investment options in education;
and (iv) demand/poverty analysis. Therefore, the present assessment is mainly focused on the fiscal
topics of the education sector during the period of PEDP implementation (1992-1998).
50.   Total public expenditure in education has grown 25.5% in real terms between 1992 and
1998, representing a 3.8% annual rate of increase (please see Annex-3 for details). However, the
trend of public spending in the 1990s shows two different patterns. First, between 1992 and 1994,
public spending on education increased significantly at a rate of 16% per year (in constant prices)
mainly due to increases in teachers salaries and government financing of secondary school tuition
payments. Secondly, from 1995 on, public spending on education started to decrease until 1996 in
real terms mainly due to the policy of "frozen" nominal salaries that included the whole public
sector. The increase during this period in primary education grew by 26% at annual rate of 4%
(3.7% in real terms).



12
51.   As a percentage of total public expenditure, overall education expenditures accounted for
21.2% in 1998, an average of 20.7% for the period 1992-1998. Being the largest share of the
government budget, recurrent expenditures represented an average of 28.3% of total public sector
recurrent expenditures. The share of both recurrent and total expenditures in education, as a
percentage of total budgets, has increased during the period because educational expenditures have
grown faster than the government expenditures. Educational recurrent expenditure grew 34%
whereas total government expenditures grew by 17% during the same period. However, in terms of
capital, and in the context of global capital expenditure adjustment, the decrease has been larger in
the education sector than in the total government budget (19% decrease vs. 4%, respectively).
52.  In terms of the GDP, education expenditures were, on average, 5.8% over 1992-98. The
Belize government financed almost all education sector expenditures for public and grant-aided
schools and institutions. Compared to the level of primary and secondary net enrollments (85% and
34% net enrollment, respectively) this spending level is high by international standards. OECD
countries spent about 5.2% of GDP on average on education with significantly better enrollment
ratios and better performance. Latin American countries spend on average 4.1% of GDP.
53.   The composition by level during the period 1992-1998 has been composed by 57% of the
recurrent expenditures going for primary education, 23% for secondary, 15% for tertiary 2.6% for
central administration and the remainder for pre-school, special education and other institutions.
54.   Unit Cost. Belize makes fiscal effort in a context of low coverage resulting in relatively high
unit costs (US$ 363 recurrent expenditure per pupil at primary level and US$ 700 at the secondary
level) compared to countries with similar level of income. Low efficiency in Belize education is
mainly due to: (i) relatively high repetition rates at primary and secondary levels, (ii) high salary
level in terms of the country income level. Consequently, International comparisons also show that
Belize has the highest ratio recurrent expenditure by pupil/GDP per capita in Latin American and
the Caribbean.
D4. Institutional Development Impact.
55.   The institutional Development Impact is unsatisfactory. Original plans and agreements were
made during Midterm Review were only partially implemented. During the last implementation
year, the new Government, supported by DFID, completed an assessment of institutional
management practice and needs for the whole sector. This will be implemented under the newly
proposed Belize Education Sector Improvement Project (BESIP), which will be financed by the
Bank and DFID. Extent to which the project has improved an agency's or country's ability to make
effective use of its human and financial resources. (JB)
E. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
El. Factors affecting the outcome.
56.   This section provides an assessment of the major factors that affected the achievement of the
project outcome and the degree to which they did so (substantially, partially or negligible). These
factors are categorized into (a) outside the control of government or implementing agency; (b)
factors generally subject to government control and (c) factors generally subject to implementing
agency.
Objectivel: Improving quality, relevance and quantity of certified teachers.



13
57.   Enhance relevance and quality of teacher training. Factors that contributed to partial
achievement of this component: The MoE achieved some control on rationalization (staffing) of
supervisors. However, problems continue to exist: (i) work overload on supervisors, the current
ratio is 1 supervisor to 14 teacher-students (25 supervisors for 350 teachers); (ii) inequities on the
ground on reasonable distribution of supervisors, such as, at least 50% have additional
responsibilities in relation to delivery of distance education program; and (iii) geographic
distribution of student-teachers.
58.   Increase in the number of professionally certified teaclhers. Two factors substantially
contributed to the unsatisfactory achievement of this component: (i) lack of governrment control on
continued appointment of the untrained teachers which affected the net percentage of trained
teachers in the system, and (ii) the number of available teachers meeting intramural qualifications
for entry.
59.   Train principals to provide instructional leadership at thte school level. Factors affecting
the performance of this component have been partial. Two main factors have been: (a) the practice
of rotation in denominational schools by the school management; and (b) some principals still in the
process of acquiring prerequisites for admission which largely depend upon individuals' motivation
and aptitude.
60.   Planning and delivery of teacher training. This component was partially affected by the
factors associated with the control of the implementing agency. This included; (a) delayed
procurement of equipment and furniture; (b) overlapping activities with other components, for
example, curriculum development and assessments/examinations; (c) frequent changes in
administration and management procedures; (d) unclear role of district education centers; and (e)
adjustment of Teacher Training College staff to the newly acquired distance education program
contributing to high staff turnover.
Objective 2. Improve quality and availability of instructional materials and educational facilities.
61.   Reducing overcrowding tlhrouglh piloting multiple-shift schooling. Government control and
the inability to pilot the policy substantially affected this component. The component was dropped
due to resistance from the school management.
62.   Curriculum development and application. One factor that substantially contributed to the
underachievement of the component's objective was the inability of the implementing agency to
adopt a clear curriculum development process. The curriculum development started without
consultation with beneficiaries and without a clear national philosophy. This caused revision and
development of a national vision for curriculum halfway through the project period and all work
had to start from the beginning.
63.   Examination reform and assessment. This component has been substantially affected by
the government's policy in adopting clear examination and assessment policy to reduce inequity, as
well as by implementing the agency's capacity in human resource. A high level of staff turnover has
been a major negative factor to the component's achievement.
Objective 3. Strengthen government capabilities to plan and manage education to improve quality,
efficiency and cost-effectiveness



14
64.   Strengthening management. Although management and administration training were
provided to MoE management, the main factor significantly affecting the outcome of the
component has been posting trained staff on special assignments, e.g., field supervision and
curriculum development.
65.   Building District Education Centers. The component has been significantly affected by the
government and the implementing agency to realistically assess the funding needs and implement
clear rules and regulations for proper operation of the centers.
E2. Costs and Financing.
66.   There were no noticeable cost changes. The variation between SAR estimates and actual
project expenditures in civil works is due to the construction of additional District Education
Centers and additional classrooms.
Category        SAR Estimate    Actual    Variation
1. Goods                  26.7%        25.6%       1.1%
2. Civil Works            42.7%        51.1%       8.4%
3. Incremental Costs      9.3%          4.9%       4.4%
4. Consultants            15.2%         14.7%      0.5%
5. Training & Fellowships  6.1%         3.7%       2.4%
Total    100%         100%    I
67.   The changes in project scope were mainly due to the availability of Loan funds because (i)
The GoB had absorbed all recurrent costs in civil works from the beginning of the project. (ii)
DFID's additional funding of training, research and studies; and (iii) Decentralization and
establishment of three additional District Education Centers required the building construction,
equipment and vehicles not originally foreseen in the SAR.
68.   In addition, project vehicles were replaced after 5 years of service and SAR targets of
construction of new schools, classrooms, rehabilitation, studies and study tours were exceeded. In
the SAR, financing of civil works was estimated to cost about US$2.8 million; loan disbursements
for civil works at the end of the project were US$3.33 million including the additional civil works
activities. Two reallocations of funds among project procurement/disbursement categories took
place in early 1998 and in December 1998.
69.   World Bank official disbursements to date are US$6.095 million. The last pending SOE for
US$419,334 covers considerable expenditures in civil works and vehicles and has been included in
the final disbursement figures. Therefore, the PEDP disbursed US$6,514,997.6, and undisbursed
loan proceeds amount to US$585,000 (8.2%).
70.   Audit reports were all unqualified (clean). Some issues of deviation from Bank financial
reporting were corrected.  Since the GOB had been pre-financing all project expenditures, a
recurrent issue throughout the project had been the delay in sending requests for replenishment of
the Special Account to the Bank. This was the main cause for disbursement discrepancies between
the SAR schedule and actual project disbursements.
Please refer to Annexes 2a and b for financial tables.



15
F. Sustainability
F.1. Rationale for Sustainability Rating
71.   Government commitment. Highly likely. The government has adopted all components of
the project in its recurrent budget including budget for building maintenance. All project staff have
been regularized and merged into the Planning Unit of the Ministry of Education by restructuring
the organization structure.
72.   Policy environment. Likely. There is a whole climate of change for equity, quality and
access of education. Policies related to teacher training, curriculum development and assessment
have been developed and implemented during the project period. Currently, MoE has also produced
the draft of sector wide strategy, which has been approved by the Belizean Cabinet.
73.  Institution/management effectiveness. Highly likely. Based on the appraisal of management
effectiveness conducted recently (1999), major recommendations have been adopted to strengthen
various institutions and management practices in the MoE. The project implementation unit has
been absorbed into the MoE's Planning Unit, with overall responsibilities of handling and managing
all education sector development projects. This has been done in preparation for future projects
coming out of Sector Strategy.
74.   Technical viability. Highily likely. The project has contributed significantly to develop
technical know-how in planning and management of development projects. All management
institutions have been enhanced in their capabilities to deliver better service. However, continued
support is desirable.
75.   Economic viability. Likely. More cost-efficient output of higher quality primary education
graduates
76.   Financial viability. Likely. N/A
77.   Social impact. Likely. DFID social assessment has been completed in 1999.
78.   Local participation. Highly likely. There is general commitment and willingness to work
together. The whole education system is based on partnership. All decisions are made with full
involvement of partners and stakeholders.
F2. Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation
79.   This section provides a description and evaluation of the transition arrangements for the
project's future operations.
*  Technical provisions. Project staff has been engaged in various planning, management,
implementation, research and evaluation activities during the project period. This has improved
the technical capacity of handling similar projects in the future as well as to continue the
implementation of objectives specified under PEDP.
*  Financial provisions. All project recurrent expenditures have been included in the recurrent
budget.
*  Institutionalprovisions. The project implementation unit has been merged into the Planning
Unit of MoE with Projects, Financial Management and EMIS divisions. All staff has been
regularized.



16
* Monitoring and Evaluation system. Monitoring and Evaluation System is under development.
EMIS is the main source of data collection. School Effectiveness Indicators have been
developed and the first survey has been conducted.
80.   The Bank should continue to utilize the capacity built in the MoE and avoid creating new
Project Implementation Units for any future projects. The proposed Belize Education Sector
Improvement Project should capitalize on the lessons learned in BPEDP, special attention should be
paid to implementation planning to avoid ambiguities and overlapping among the components. The
optimum time for measuring impact would be after the completion of curriculum development and
its implementation in all grades of primary education by 2003.
G. Bank and Borrower's Performance
GI. Bank Performance
G1.1. Lending. Overall rating. Satisfactory.
81.   Identification. Satisfactory. One of the objectives of the country assistance strategy during
project identification was to assist Belize in developing its human resources, including institution
building that is critical for sustainable economic growth. The project supported the government
plans and policies for primary education improvement for the period of 1992-98. BPEDP was the
first Bank project in the education sector, laying a foundation for continued sustainable human
resource development in the future.
82.   Preparation. Unsatisfactory. The project design adequately addressed primary education
issues existing at that time. However, the design was insufficiently comprehensive. Time-bound
activity planning (except for technical assistance and civil works), component specific impact
studies, monitoring and evaluation aspects were missing from the SAR.
83.   Financial study on expenditure in education was done in 1990 as pre-requisite to project
preparation. Economic and social assessments were not done. Mid-term review did not recommend
the need for assessment. Social assessment was done as late as in 1999.
84.  Institutional assessment of MOE was adequate. The SAR addressed major changes in
administrative and management as project components. This included decentralization of teacher
training institutions to district level; changes in management hierarchy and establishment of
management information system for improved planning and decision making.
85.   Procurement and Financial management aspects of project design, and emphasis on
developing institutional capacity in MOE were inadequate. However, the project provided technical
assistance to improve MOE's budget processing, budget monitoring and accounting systems during
its implementation.
86.   Appraisal. Partially Satisfactory. The government of Belize revised the Education Act in
1991 (during project appraisal) and committed to develop quality of education as well as providing
access to the under-served population. The revised act established clear responsibilities of the
government for establishing educational objectives, development of curriculum and administrative
standards, teacher training and administration of examinations. The school management (church
organizations) was made responsible for school maintenance and all personnel matters. This
partnership with local communities was regarded as a major step in meeting the goals of PEDP.
However, the performance indicators and economic and financial evaluation were unsatisfactory.



17
* A technical officer was hired to manage all bidding and financial matters prior to project
effectiveness. Availability of incentives for participants to sustain the project included the
regularization of project staff in the MoE.
* Two major risks were identified during appraisal: (i) limited management capacity in the MoE;
and (ii) sustainability of achievements after project life. Both risks were critical and were
addressed in the project by establishing a PIU and by making policy changes and modifications
in the Education Act. However, component specific risks were not identified.
'  The financial package for the project was adequate for the original intended life of the project
and its scope.
* The implementation plan was inadequate, lacked time-bound planning, interdependencies, and
activity cost breakdown. A set of performance indicators was agreed on with the MOE and was
included in SAR with achievement targets and timeline.
* PEDP was the Bank's first operation in Belize, thus no relevant experience existed in the
system. Key lessons leamed were drawn from Bank experience in the Caribbean and the
countries similar to Belize.
Supervision.    Satisfactory
* Reporting on implementation progress has been inadequate. Progress on performance indicators
was not regularly reported. Follow-up on issues was generally not consistent in 509/PSR,
however, the performance rating in 590/PSR was realistic. All covenants were complied with.
* Identification of implementation problems and its proactive address was inadequate. The
Quality Assurance Group assessed that there was lack of contact with the borrower in following
up the issues and their resolutions.
* There was adequate attention paid to likely development impact. The mid-term review
suggested conducting classroom impact evaluation of the project inputs, which was carried out
with the collaboration of DFID (through Belize-Bristol link program).
* An adequate level of successful relationships was developed among MoE, WB and DFID in
coordinating project activities and carrying out several research studies. This partnership has
worked well, adapting to the changing needs and purposes of BPEDP.
* Bank's supervision performance and the skill mix of supervision missions were adequate. Time
in the field was adequate. Bank managers were supportive, especially after the mid-term review;
more elaborate reporting, coordination and follow up was practiced.
* There were no deviations noticed from Bank policies and procedures. Procurement and financial
management practices were followed according to Bank rules. For cost over- and under-runs
please see Annex 2 a and b.



18
G2. Borrower Performance.
87.   Preparation. Satisfactory. Project design was adequate which reflected policies. However,
technical aspects were poorly considered. Financial aspects were jointly considered with the Bank
and were adequate. An adequate strategy analysis was done inl989. Institutional arrangements were
adequate by establishing and staffing PIUs before project effectiveness. A high-level of
commitment was assured by the school management and the government.
88.   Implementation Performance. Satisfactory.  Macroeconomic policies were unclear but
adequate for the project objectives. Sector policies prevailed and the project was designed to reflect
the primary education priorities. Although there were three government changes during 1992-98, all
governments were committed to education priorities and objectives.
89.   Appointment of key managers was done before project effectiveness and according to the
needs identified. The PEDP had only two Project Directors, both had adequate technical knowledge,
political support and proved to be excellent leaders and managers of the project.
90.   The MoE did not manage any trust funds. The fiscal crisis in the early 1990s and continuing
GOB deficits did not significantly affect Capital II budget (GOB counterpart funds). On the other
hand, DFID's funds which did not require co-financing by the GOB, served to offset the reduction
in counterpart funds by the new government's restrictive fiscal policy in 1993.
91.   There was no interference in the operational decisions by the government, however, some
problems were faced in implementing the Bank's procurement procedures at the beginning of the
project.
Implementing Agency. Management effectiveness was satisfactory.
92.   Financial management was satisfactory. At project inception a Financial Officer was
seconded to the PEDP for two years. Good financial management and reporting were instituted
early in the project. Although, initially, financial reporting deviated from the Bank format and
financial statements did not often stand on their own without the need of additional explanations.
Financial management reports improved over the life of the project and contained sufficient
information to allow an informed reviewer to verify the flow of funds from the Bank to the Project.
Although the management and reporting of DFID funds and incurred expenditures were agreed at
project inception, reporting of actual expenses of the grant fund were not provided to the PEDP.
93.   An adequate number of staff was employed in the PIU. There were no significant
implementation delays except in the curriculum development component, which was due to a lack
of a clear philosophy. The main delay occurred in the first years of implementation when
construction studies and plans took longer than expected. Other components were implemented on
schedule and several accomplished their targets ahead of schedule. During 1992-1995 the project
was delayed or disrupted because some components were financed on an ad hoc basis and because
of the complexity of procedures and regulations for making a request to the Ministry of Finance
when needed by the project. It must be noted that slow disbursements caused by recurrent delays in
sending requests for reimbursement/replenishment to the Bank for GOB-financed expenditures did
not cause delays in the implementation since the GOB pre-financed all project expenditures.
94.   Financial improvements were made in the civil works component where the government
adopted 100 percent of incremental cost as opposed to a planned fraction. Use of technical
assistance has been satisfactory, except that the government did not have any opinion in the quality
of the TAs hired and sent by DFID. Monitoring and Evaluation procedures have been inadequate,
which remained a weak aspect of the project. Beneficiary participation has been adequate, school



19
management were involved in all stages of project development and implementation. All covenants
were complied with.
95.   Bank guidelines on procutrement procedures were followed throughout the life of the project
and files were well documented and kept in an orderly manner since the 1995 mid-term review.
Specifically, institutional capacity building on procurement practices was lost as key personnel
moved out of the PIU at the end of the project without overlap with new the personnel. However,
human and physical infrastructure has been created to handle future multilateral operations in the
education sector, embodied in the new Projects Unit of the MOE.
96.   Audit reports were all unqualified (clear). Some issues of deviation from Bank financial
reporting were corrected.  Since the GOB had been pre-financing all project expenditures, a
recurrent issue throughout the project had been the delay in sending requests for replenishment of
the Special Account to the Bank so that the GOB would be properly reimbursed for the Bank's
share of project expenditures; this was the major cause for disbursement discrepancies between
SAR disbursement schedule and actual project disbursements.
H. Lessons Learned
* PEDP was the first education sector project, under which several research studies were
produced addressing various weaknesses in the system. As a result, the Belizean government
has declared Education Sector Development as a priority and has adopted the project into its
recurrent budget to continue its future operations. With close Bank supervision, the new
govemment's development approach (after the 1998 elections) has shifted from Project specific
to Sector wide, addressing the issues at all levels of education in Belize. As a result, the
Belizean Cabinet has approved a 10 year sector policy/strategy for development in education
(2000-2010), thus, future projects/programs should capitalize on the government commitments
and priorities.
. A strong working partnership has been developed with the school management during
implementation of PEDP, which will ensure better delivery of inputs to the system in the future.
The ministry should involve the school management in developing a comprehensive monitoring
and evaluation process and implement it.
* PEDP implementation plan was unclear and lacked detailed cost and financial planning, which
affected overall implementation performance and capacity' of measuring system efficiency.
Therefore future projects should have a time-bound activity level implementation plan
indicating allocated budgeted amounts and clear implementation responsibilities at activity
level. All relevant terms of references of consultants, research/studies, training/workshops
should be drafted before the effectiveness.
* Indicators should be divided into (a) project implementation performance monitoring, and (b)
impact/outcome indicators with quantifiable achievement targets. Specific reporting formats
should be designed, agreed on with the stakeholders and implemented.
* Financial implications of undertaking various changes in organizational structure and revision of
job descriptions should be agreed on by all stakeholders before implementation (e.g., in case of
operationalizing district education centers).
All research studies should be coordinated by the Ministry of Education with the assistance of
consultants need to create local ownership. Many studies were financed by DFID, leaving the Bank-



20
financed TA funds to be reallocated. However, most TA studies were only published under the
Consultants name, and not integrated/translated into policy-actions by the MOE. This prevented
ownership and wasted resources. Clear agreements and guidelines should be established regarding
the follow-up of TA studies and actions.



21
I. Partner Comments
These Borrower Comments were received during the September 1999 ICR mission and are reflected
here in full.
11. Borrower's Comments.
97.   The Belize Primary Education Development Project had its origin in the World Bank
Education Sector Review, which was conducted in 1988. That sector review identified the major
needs of the education system and made specific recommendations regarding access, efficiency and
quality at the primary education sector. The specific components of BPEDP reflected these
recommendations. In this regard the project was conceived on the assumption that the education
system faced many challenges especially at the primary sector that required both qualitative and
quantitative outputs. To that end the project objectives, design and implementation were considered
relevant.
98.   During the evolution of BPEDP senior MOE officers and a number of managing authorities
played key roles in the development of key project components. By so doing Belizeans made
important inputs to the shaping of the project. Similarly, during implementation of the project,
heads of various MOE units were responsible for the implementation of specific components,
performing functions of planning, execution and evaluation on a continuing basis in collaboration
with a project implementation unit.
99.   Technical capability of senior officers to plan and realize MOE policies was greatly
enhanced as a result of on-the job training and short-term training and study tours.
100.  With regard to lessons learned discussions with key players during the life of the project
have led to the conclusion that on an overall basis much was learned by all from the planning,
execution and evaluation that was carried out on an collaborative basis among those responsible for
the implementation of the various components and from working with external consultants. The
entire project provided an opportunity for on-the-job training job and short term formal training.
Such training contributed to capacity building. These training opportunities did not detract
significantly from already limited human resources and allowed for less disruption during project
implementation.
101.  Project achievements were significant. For example a teacher training system is in place,
additional classrooms were built and furnished, capacity for designing and administering
assessment of students' performance was established, and infrastructure for decentralization is in
place. With regard to the specific component the following can be stated:
The School Facilities Improvement Program was not intended to solve once and for all the
challenges of access and the learning environment. It did exceed the number of schools and
classroom targeted. However the main lesson learned was that much could be achieved
given that the financial and other resources are used well. This is supported by the fact that
the Managing Authorities through their own resources have constructed or rehabilitated a
significant number of classrooms.
* The curriculum development component exemplified how advancement can be made rapidly
given clear policy decision, adequate leadership, finance, and technical assistance.



22
* The restructured teacher education program worked satisfactorily on a whole and the
distance education program, while starting out hesitantly and turning out Level I certified
teachers slowly, initially began to show results in the later part of the project. It should be
noted that the target of 80% was achieved because of the practice of hiring untrained
teachers
* Improvements in the student/textbook ratio were accomplished through the textbook loan
scheme, but evidence shows that the scheme was not appropriately implemented. Principals
used it in a variety of ways and some did not participate.
*  The assessment and Evaluation Unit was established and worked towards introducing the
BJAT and improving the BNSE. However the BJAT still is not being used for diagnostic
purposes and the BNSE is being replaced after much criticism.
* Significant achievements have been made to improve the management of education at the
Central Ministry level and to decentralize some functions to the districts through the creation
of District Education Centres. However much work remains to be done especially as it
relates to the operationalization of some changes geared at efficiency and effectiveness in
the delivery of education services. One drawback has to do with conflicting
recommendations from successive consultants, which tend to change position of officers on
a frequent basis. In addition there still remains much to be done to strengthen MOE capacity
in all aspects.
102.  During implementation new challenges surfaced that required changes in implementation.
These changes were geared mainly at accelerating outputs in some instances and ensuring relevance
in others. For example many more classrooms were constructed than originally planned, the primary
school curriculum was redesigned in order that it may be underpinned by a national philosophy, and
the teacher training delivery system was changed to include an extramural component which was
perceived to reduce financial and social costs to the MOE and teachers. In general a flexible
arrangement for the redesign and changes in implementation were desirable thus allowing for the
outputs to more effective
103.  The narrow focus of the project i.e. primary education was cause for some concern in that it
was perceived by some sections of MOE that less attention was being paid to other sectors of the
education system. Indeed the volume of project activities sometimes overwhelmed the small Central
Ministry and the limited staffing available to project components. Future projects should take
account of current human resources both in terms number and capacity. Furthermore a lot depends
on the capacity of the human resources to absorb and assimilate innovations.
104.  An important issue was monitoring and evaluation. Performance indicators were not
articulated and an appropriate monitoring and evaluation was not in place. Whilst there were many
supervision missions and an implementation committee slippage in the completion of project
activities and outputs were experienced. However an analysis of the output /performance indicator
revealed significant achievements in access, quality and relevance.
105.  On a whole the performance of the funding donor agencies was good. However, frequent
changes in personnel often resulted in readjustments in project perspectives, which in some instance
was desirable and beneficial. One area which posed some difficulty was understanding the project
financing and the monitoring of disbursements especially as they related to projected expenditure.
Furthermore it was noted that a lag in disbursement was a result of the capacity of component rate



23
of spending as determined by the ability to complete activities on schedule and the complex nature
of the procurement procedures.
12. DFID Comments.
106.  DFID provided substantial technical assistance during project implementation. Comments
from DFID are included in the DFID reports Output-to Purpose Review DFID Sub Component,
Belize Primary Education Project by Una M. Paul, 1998 and Social Appraisal Report by Mary
Surridge and Dylan Vernon, 1999, (for reference please consult the LCSHD IRIS records). DFID
also participated in several supervision missions over the project life. DFID agreed with the overall
conclusions presented in the Sept 1999 ICR mission.
J. Additional Information
See Annexes



24
K. Annexes



25
ANNEX 1: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
5-12age group population     45,078      In 1991
a) Outcome/Impact Indicators                                                                    55.795     in 1998
Indicator                     Projected in             Actual/Latest    Percentage  Comments/Remarks
SAR/PAD (1992)    Estimate(1998)
Transition rate from primary to       Boys 70%, Girls 82.4%     Boys 78.7%, Girls 81.4%
secondary
Average Repetition rate                       7.40%                      10.3%                          1991/92 school year is taken
as baseline.
Average Dropout rate                          4.90%                      1.1%
Total Enrollment                              47,210                    54,616                16%
Gross Enrollment                               105%                      98%            _.
Net Enrollment                                 91%                       85%
Number of Teachers                              -                         _                    -       _
T'otal                                         1,818                     2,064                14%       Only includes teachers in
classrooms
Trained (Certified) Teachers                   926                       1,130                          Level-I trained (excluding
principals)
Untrained                                      892                        934                           Level-I trained (excluding
_________________  _ _______________  _ __________________________  _ ________________________  p rincipals)
% of trained teachers                          51 %                      45%                            Level-I trained (excluding
principals)
% of untrained teachers                        49%                       37%                            Level-I trained (excluding
principals)
Pupil/Teacher Ratio                            26.0                      26.5                 2%        Net percentage increase
Recurrent Expenditures                          -
Recurrent Expenditures                        27,470                    39,622                44%       million BZ$
In 1998 BZ$                                   31,360                    39,622                26%       million BZ$
Increase 1992-98                          9.1 % (average)
Per pupil    ~            ~     -              565                        725                 28%       BZ$        -
Per Pupil (in 1998 BZ$)                        645                        725                 12%       BZ$
Per Teacher                                   15,110                    19,197                27%       BZ$            __ __
Per Teacher (in1998 BZ$)                     17,250                    19,197                11%       BZ$
I'er Pupil as % of GDP per Capita              12%                       14%                  13%       Percentage         _____
Per Ieacher as % of GDP per Capita           310%/O                     360%           _          16%   _Percentage
I'rimary education recurrent budget as a  -    60%                       57%                  -5%       Percentage
% of the total recurrent education
budget                _               _     _                            _         _  .                 ____           _



26
% of the Primary Edu. Budget spent on
Salaries
Grant-aided schools          100%                      100%                  0%       Percentage
Government schools            98%                       98%                  0%        Percentage
b) Output Indicators
Indicator              f     Projected in              Actual/Latest                %        Comments/Remarks
I  SAR/PAD  (1992)    Estimate (1998-99)
1. Increased number of teachers trained Certified teachers force  62% trained teachers in the  78%      Although project target has
and using improved teaching methods  increased from 45% to 80%   system.                                been overachieved, the net
in the classroom.                  by the end of the project                                            number of trained teachers
has gone up to 62% only.
700 untrained teachers to be  995 trained                142%       In old+new system, total 1037
trained                                                             were trained
Technical Assistance       55 months                     120%       Financed by DFID
(46months)
Number of distance learning  84 modules developed         100%      Baseline established during
modules = 84                                                        implementation
2. Enhanced school environment
a. Improved school facilities.     Rehabilitation of 50        46 renovated                   92%
classrooms
Construction of 55 n       131 new classrooms            238%       Funds were reallocated
classrooms                 constructed
b. Reduction of overcrowding in    Initial pilot schemne for 3  None                          0%        Dropped as component
selected schools through multiple shifts. urban schools
Expansion of pilot         None                         0%          Dropped as component
c. School facilities maintenance   Preparation of primary school Plan prepared by Bank       100%       A fulltimc Civil
program in place                   facilities maintenance plan.   consultant and the Planning           works/maintenance specialist
Unit of MoE                             is appointed in the MOE to
implement maintenance plan.
Annual investment budget    US$1.6million per year       533%
increased to US$300,000    average during 1992-1998
equivalent for primary school
maintenance.



27
3. Newv and revised curricula and  All Primary school teachers  New curricula implemented one third work No TESL materials are
teaching guides, including TESL    using new and revised      in grades: infant I & 2 and   done      developed in the second
material, disseminated and used in the  curricula in school.  standard Ifrom Sep.99.                  phase.
classroom.                                                    Curricula for grades 4-8 are
in various stages of
development.
4. Increased availability and use of  I in 3 pupils should have  2 in 3 pupils got access to a  200%  Set includes: Mathes,
basic textbooks in primary schools.    access to a basic set of books. basic set of textbooks under   Science, Language and Social
textbook loan scheme.                   studies textbooks
Adopt policy for usage of the Policy adopted. Circular   100%      Assessment of the usage of
fees paid by parents for the   sent to schools and                 funds not done.
textbooks for purchase of    reiterated in textbook loan
instructional material.    scheme guide sent yearly to
all primary schools.
5. Educational planning unit       a) Establishment of Education EMIS established in 1991   100%
established, staffed and functioning.    Management Information
System                                             
b) Annual statistical digest   Annual statistical Digests  100%
printed and distributed    produced on annual basis
since 1992.
c) School mapping or       School mapping exercise       100%0_
physical facilities survey  was conducted to identify
physical facility gaps in
1995
d) Completion of special
studies
- Gender analysis in Primary  Study done                 100%      Recommended during
Edu.                                                               implementation
- Coverage of Edu. at Prim &  Study done                 100%      Recommended during
Sec. levels                                                        implementation
- Class impact evaluation  Study done                    100%      Recommended during
implementation
- Investigation into high  Study done                    100%      Recommended during
dropouts                             _.  _implementation
- School Finan-ce st-udy    Ongoing                      90%       Draft ready
- 5 year school construction   Plan prepared             100%      Included in the Maintenance
plan                                                               plan
- Study on teachers        Study done 
6. Introduction and use of national  Diagnostic tests designed,    Diagnostic tests (BJAT)  100%      Process still needs
diagnostic/ achievement tests and  disseminated and used in   were developed and                      improvement
assessments at the primary school level. Math and languages.  administered regularly
since 1994 in Maths and
languages.               __       ___       __              _
Improvement in BNSE        Quality of BNSE improved     Partial



28
7. Strengthened district level support   Construction and equipping   6 centers were constructed  200%
services to schools.              of 3 new education centers   and equipped
Provision of books and other All 6 centers were         100%
educational materials to all  equipped
teacher resource centers
District level in-service  Process and mechanism        100%
training mechanism in place  were developed and put in
place.
8. Strengthened management of     T raining of 208 school     192 trained                  92%       # of principals increased to
education system                  principals                                                         249, thus net achievement is
77%
9. Increase in Annual Budget for   1992: US$500,000                                                  Agreement covenant
primary education.
1993: US$593,000
1994: US$678,000
1995: US$679,000              Avg: 1.012m US$           167%
Avg = 0.606m                                      __
1996: US$594,000
1997: US$597,000
1998: US$599,000



29
ANNEX 2: PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
a) Project Costs by Components (in US$ equivalent)
Disbursements by         Total    Planned  Actual %  Percentage
Component            Actual    SAR %
Assessment& Evaluation         167,148     2.8%      2.6%          0.2%
Teacher Training College      487,013     19.8%      7.5%         12.3%
Curriculum & Texts            961,391     18.5%     14.8%          3.7%
District Education Centers   1,127,089     7.7%     17.3%          9.6%
Project Implementation Unit   862,362      5.8%     13.2%          7.4%
Planning & Management         413,038      5.5%      6.3%          0.8%
School Facilities            2,496,957    40.0%     30.3%           1.7%
Total            6,514,998   100%       92%
b) Project Costs by Disbursement categories (in US$ equivalent)
Expenditure Categories     Total    Planned  Actual %       % Difference
Actual    SAR %
1. Goods                     1,665,122    26.7%     25.6%         1.1%
2. Works                     3,332,402    42.7%     51.1%         8,4%
3. Incremental Costs           318,612     9.3%      4.9%         4.4%
4. Consultants                 954,985    15.2%     14.7%         0.5%
5. Training and Fellowships    243,774     6.1%      3.7%         2.4%
6. Loan 3422-Bel s/a              102   N/A          0.0%
Total             6,514,997    100%       92%            -
Note: US$628,982.83 was undisbursed and therefore cancelled.



30
ANNEX 3: Cost Benefit Analysis
Indicator                                  1992        1993   ]   1994        1995        1996        1997   ]   1998   11992-1998   1992-1998
l          t                         Increase    Avnerngue
GDP (market prices US$)                                                 484,500    530,000    552,000    586,500    603,500    615,000        629,500    30%         3,5%
5-12 age group population                                                45,078      46,701     48,382      50,124      51,928     53,798      55,795    24%         2,8%
Enrollment                                                               47,210      48,343     49,503      50,691      51,908     53,154      54,616    16%          1,9%
Gross Enrollment                                                          105%        104%        102%       101%        100%         99%        98%      -7%        -1.0%
Number of Teachers                                                         1818        1939       1976        1966        1994       2030        2064    14%         2,6%
Pupil Teacher Ratio                                                       25.97       24.93      25.05       25.78       26.03      26.18       26.46     2%         0,3%
Recurrent Expenditures at Primary Level (US$ 000)                        13,735      15,584      17,57      17,436      17,852      18,312      19,811    44%        4,7%
Increase in ReCurrent Expenditures at Primary Level (US$ 000)                         1,849       1,993      (142)        417         460        1,499               1,013
Increase in Riecurrent Expenditures Respect Ycar Earlier (in %)                      13.5%0      12.8%      -0.8%        2.4%        2.6%        8.2%                6.4%
Recurrent Expenditures at Primary Level in 1998 Prices (US$ 000)         15,680      17,531      19,274     18,586      17,879      18,153      19,811    26%        3,0%    |
Increase in Recurrent Expenditures at Primary Level in 1998 Prices (US$ 000)          1,851       1,743      (688) __ (708)           274        1,659                689
Increase in Recurrent Expenditures Respect Year Earlier in Real Terms (in %)         11.8%        9.9%       -3.6%      -3.8%        1.5%        9.1%                4.2%
Recurrent Expenditure per Pupil (US$)                                       291        322         355         344        344         345         363    25%         2,9%
Recurrent Expenditure per Pupil in 1998 Prices (US$)                        332        363         389         367        344         342         363     9%         1,1%
Recurrent Expenditure per Tcachcr (USS)                                   7,555       8,037      8,895       8,869       8,953      9,021       9,598    27%         3,1%
GDP per Capita (in BZ$)                                                   2,435       2,585      2,616       2,715       2,718      2,674       2,667    10%         1,3%
Recurrent Expenditure per TI eacher in 1998 Prices (US$)                  8,625       9,041      9,754       9,454       8,966      8,942       9,598    11%         1,4%
Recurrent Expenditure per Pupil as a % of the GDP per Capita  _              %         1214%                  13%          -  -       13%    -    4- 14%             1,7%
Recurrent Expenditure per Teacher as a % of the GDP per Capita            310%       311%        340%        327%       329%        337%        360%      16%        1,8%
Primary Education Budget as a % of the T'otal Education Budget             60.1        55.0       55.9        56.5        57.8       58.2        56.8   -6%          -1.1%
Composition of the "Capital III" Expenditures (External
Souces) 1992-1993
n 3$
_5~~~~~~,316,000
(44%)
6,832,000
(56%)
n Primary Education Development Project (PEDP)
a Other External Sources



31
ANNEX 4: BANK INPUTS
Performance Rating
Number                    Specialized
Stage of        Month/        of          Days in     Staff Skills    Implementation    Development
Project Cycle       Year      Persons        Field      Represented         Status           Objectives
Through               Apr/90         6            15       SES,Ec., C.                               -
Appraisal             July/90         1           3        EA
Ag./90         5           15       SES, E,OA
Dec./90                    10
March91                             SES,DS,E,L,TA
9           15
Appraisal             June/91        3            4        DC,SES
through Board         Dec./91         1           10       FMA
Approval
Supervision           Feb/92          2           4        SES                     S                 HS
Sept/92        1            4       HRS                    HS                 HS
June/93        1            4       HRS                     S                 HS
Nov/93         1            9       HRS                     S                 HS
May/94         1            7       HRS                     S                 HS
Feb/95         3            4       C, OA, HRS              S                 HS
July/95        3            3       C, OA, HRS              S                  S
April/96       1            5       OA                      S                  S
Aug/96         2           10       Ec, A                   S                  S
Feb/97         2            5       ML, AA                  S                  S
Nov/97         I            5       ES                      S                  S
Sept/98        3            7       SES, PA, C, FM          S                  S
Jan/99        6           7        TM. RSE, FM,            S                 S
SE,EA,MIS, PA
April/99      2            5       SES, C, FM               S                 S
Sept/99       8           10       SES, MIS, Cs.,          S                  S
TA, FM, EC
Completion    Sept/98                2           2        POO.C                   S                 S



32
Stage of project cycle   Actual/Latest
Estimate
Staff    US$ (000)
Weeks
Identification/         30.0     150,000
Preparation
Appraisal/              32.0   _47,65()
Negotiations
Supervision             54.0     2U0(,326
ICR                     12.0      15,000
Total                  128.0    412,976



33
ANNEX 5: Ratings for Achievement of Objectives'/Outputs by Components2
Objectives/Outputs          Highly                                          Higa y           Not
Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Applicable
Macro Policies                                   x
Sector Policies                                  X
Physical objectives                              x
Financial objectives                                             X
Institutional Development                        x
Environmental                                                                                     x
Social:
Poverty reduction                                                                                 x
Giender
Private sector Development                                                                        x
Public sector management                         x
1: Relates to the objectives specified in the SAR
2: Relates to the outputs specified in the PAD
ANNEX 6: Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Highly                       Partly                         Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance:
Identification                      x
Preparation
Appraisal
Supervision
Overall
Supervision                       x
Overall                      x
Borrower Performance:
Preparation                                                      X
Implementation Performance                           x
Implementing agency                          x
Overall                      x



34
ANNEX 7: List of Supporting Documents
Year   |                        Author                                                                           Title
1985    Ministry of Education                                    Procedural Manual for Senior Education Managers 85
1988    World Bank                                               Belize: Education Sector Review Report
1989    World Bank                                               Belize Economic Memorandum
1989    World Bank                                               Belize Education Sector Review Report WB report # 7505a-BEL
1990    George Bethell                                   _ -- GOB-MOE Proposal for Examination Reform in Belize
1990    Ministry of Education                                   Annual Report for the Academic Year 1990/91
1990    Perren Penrose                                           Report on the Financing of Education in Belize
1991    Brian Wilkinson                                          Findings of a Brief Survey of the Management and Organization of the Belize Ministry of Education
1991    CDU, Ministry of Education, Belize                       Secondary Curriculum Policy Statement
1991  - Central Statisticai Office Ministry of Finance      --1991 Population Census Major Findings
1991    Central Statistical Office Ministry of Finance           1991 population Census Bulletin 1 -Education
1991    Central Statistical Office Ministry of Finance           Literacy: a comparison between the results of the 1980 and 1991 Housing and Population Census
1991 -Curriculum_Development Unit                                Report on Review of SSLCE Proposals
_  1991    Ministry of Education                                    Belize Education Act Arrangement of Sections
1991    World Bank                                              Staff Appraisal Report Belize PEDP
1992    Government of Belize                                    Belize Public Sector Investment program Government's Project List May, 1992
1992  - Peter Bowden (UNDP)                                      Report of a Reconnaissance Mission to Belize on Management Development in the Public Sector July 12-2, 1992
1992 -   Planning Unit Ministry of Education                     Belize: Education Statistical Digest 1992
1992    World Bank                                               Belize: Country Economic Memorandum
1992    World Bank                                               Loan Agreement PEDP between Belize and World Bank
1993    Aubrey Armstrong Management Associates                   Procedural Manual for Education Managers of the Government of Belize - Final Draft Report Tranche ii
19 9     Bernadette Robinson - IEC UK                            The development of the distance education program
1993-- Douglas Adkins                                     __    Education Sector Performance and Finance
1993    Glenroy Cumberbatch - Barbados (DFID)                    Reports on Primary mathematics
1993    H.Dean Nielson, Ellajean Gillett, Errington Thompson     Multigrade Teaching in Belize: Current Practice and its Relation to Student Achievement
1993    Ministry of Education                    _--An Overview of programmes and system
1993 = Ministry of Education                                    Five Year Development Plan (1994-1998)                    
1993    Planning Unit Ministry of Education                      Belize: Education Statistical digest 1993
1993    Project Implementation Unit                              PEDP Technical Progress Report 1991-1992
1994    Belize Teachers' College                                Supervision Handbook Distance Education Program
1994                                                            Administration Handbook Distance Education Program  ___
1994    Belize Teachers' College                                 Distance Education Program Administration Handbook
1994    Blane D. Lewis                                          A Poverty Profile for Belize
1994    Central Statistical Office Ministry of Finance           1993 Labor Force Survey Report



35
1994    Central Statistical Office Ministry of Finance          Belize Abstract of Statistics 1993
1994    Colleen Edwards                                         The State of Poverty in the Belize District, Belize, Central America
1994   |D.T. Goulden                                            Belize-Bristol Primary Education Link Programme - Summary Interim Report on the Implementation of the Extension
Phase for the Period 1 October 1994 - 17 December 1994
1994    Dennis Craig - Guyana (DFID)___                     _   Development of Languages and Arts moduls
1994    Education Development Centre of the MOE Belize          CXC Results analysis 1993
1994    Government of Befize                                    Belize 1993 National Population Report                _
l   1994    Government of Belize Ministry of Education              An Education Policy for Improving Access, Efficiency and Quality of Education
1994    Jason Pennells IEC UK                                   Administration of distance learning
1994    Lynda Moguel                                            Project Review of the Curriculum Development and Application of the BPED Project for the Perod January 1993 -
December 1993
1994    Minristry of Education                                  Policy Goals and Strategies 1995- 1999
_1994    National Council for Education's Accreditation Committee/The  A Brief Description of Tertiary Level Education in Belize, 1994
Association of Tertiary Level Institutions in Belize (ATLIB)
1994    Ramon Lopez (univ of maryland)                          Belize: Urban Poverty and the Labor Markets
1994    Van der Eyken, Goulden, and Crossley                    Evaluating Educational Reform in a Small State: a case study of Belize, Central America
1994    Willem van der Eyken (DFID)                             Bristol-Belize Link programme Final Evaluation report
1994    World Bank                                              Belize: Urban Poverty and Social Crisis
1994                                                            The Social Safety Net in Belize - A Preliminary Analysis
- 1995    Allyson Hamel-Smith                                    Investigation into high rates of Repetition and Dropout
1995    Belize Teachers' College                                Belize Teachers' College Implementation Plan 95-98
1995    Blane D. Lewis     ______  Targeting Poverty in Belize
1995    Clara Pastor                                            Education in Belize: History and Current Issues
1995    David Carroll                                           Assessment Policy in Belizean Secondary Education
1995    Dr. Michael Crossley                                    School Case Studies and Impact Evaluation
1995    Ginger Reich                                            3 Issues - Transition, Curriculum Policy, and Youth not in Secondary Education
1995    Kairi Consultants Ltd.                                  Poverty Assessment and Training in Belize, volume I
1995    Michael Crossley                                        School Case Studies and Impact Evaluation
1995    Ministry of Education, Belize                           Primary Education Curriculum Development Implementation Plan: 1996-1997
-_ 1995    Project Implementation Unit                              1994 Project Report PEDP MOE, Belize
1995   -roject Implementatdon Unit                               Education Development Centre - Belize Primary Education Development Implementation Plan - Component:
Curriculum Development and Application
1_ 95 ._  5roject lmpleriientationUi7ht                        -- PEDP Textbook Loan Scheme Progress Report
1995    Sefton Davies  3- BPEDP-Administration of the Development Division
1995    Sefton Davies                                           BPEDP Administration of the Development Division
-1995|  Una Paul                           C- Coverage of Education at the Primary and Secondary Levels: a Diagnosis of the Belizean Situation
=1995   - World Bank                                               Belize: Public Expenditure Review
1995  - World Bank                                              Mlid-Term review report
1995    World Bank                                              Initial Executive Project Summary for a proposed Basic Education II project
1995    World  ank                                              Initial Executive Project Summary for the Secondary Education Reform project
1995                                                            I ____   ____ _  nstitutional Capacity and Management of the Education Sector



36
1995                     \                   _                   __ _ _ _ ___ initial Executive Project Summary
1996    Carolyn Leacock                                        A Gender analysis of Primary Education in Belize
1996    Donald R. Winkler, LASHC                               RE: MINEDLAC Vil1/ PROMEDLAC VI
1996    Dr. Michael Crossley                                   School Case Studies and Impact Evaluation
1996    Helmi Verbakel                                         Data Collection in Belizean Primary Schools and Analysis of Research capacity Building potential: two Studies
linked to the Belizean 'School Case Studies and Impact Evaluation'
1996    irvin de Vries                                         Instructional design of distance learning material
1996    Michaei Gordon                                         Review of Financial Management System
1996    Ministry of Education                                  Preliminary draft of the Scope of Work for the study on the financing of secondary education
1996    Project Implementation Unit                            1996 Implementation Plans BPEDP
1996      rld Bank                                             Belize: Fiscal Policies for Stabilization and Growth- Public Expenditure Review - Volume I
1996    World Bank                      -Belize: Fiscal Policies for Stabilization and Growth - Public Expenditure Review - Volume II (Annexes)
1996    World Bank                                             Belize: fiscal Policies for Stabilization and Growth
1996    World Bank                                             Caribbean Countries Poverty Reduction and Human Resource Development in the Caribbean
1996    World Bank                                     -       Caribbean Countries Public Sector Modernization
1996    World Bank                                             Belize: environmental Report
1996    World Bank                                             Belize: Fiscal Policies for Stabilization and Growth Public Expenditure Review Vo.2
1996    World Bank                                             Belize: Education Sector Annex 11
1 996    World Bank                                            Belize: Infrastructure Sector Annex IV
1997    Douglas Adkins                                         School Finance Reform Workshop/Action Plan
1 997  -- Helmi Verbakel                                       BPEDP - School Case Studies and impact Evaluation
1997  John Anderson (DFID TA)                                  BPEDP Situation Report August 1997
1997    Ministry of Education                                  Belize PEDP Case Studies and Impact Evaluation (CSIE)
01997   National Human Development Advisory Committee (NHDAC)   Belize -Taking Stock: National Human Development Report 1997
1 997    Raj Nallari and Piiar Maisterra LA3C2                 Belize: Macro Assessment BTO Report
1997    World Bank                                             MOE Action Options for Reform of Secondary and Sixth-Form School Finance
1998   13Belize Teachers' College                              BPEDP Quarterly Report - Teacher Education Component
1998    David Carroll                                           BPEDP -Progress on the Assessment Component against Relevant Project Objectives and OVIS
1998    Geacon Cal                                             Thoughts on Belize Education
1998    Education Planning Unit                                Report of Planning Unit Sub-Component of the PEDP
1998   | Ellajean Gillett                                      BPEDP Curriculum Component - Achievements April 98-Sept98 and Plan of Actions Sept 98-Sept. 99
1998    M inistry of Education                                 Education Rules 1998 Statutory Instrument No. of 1998 Arrangement of Rules
1998    Paul Jones                                             An Interim Report on District Education Centers
199.8 People's United Party (Belize)                   __    Manifesto of the People's United Party 1998-2003
- 1998  '-roject Implementation Uniit                             1997 Project Report PEDP, MOE/ Belize
1998      Project Implementation Unit                          1998 Project Report Primary Education Development Project Ministry of Education Belize
1998    Una M. Paul, Jill Aitken  -                            Output-to Purpose Review DFID Sub Component, Belize Primary Education Development Project



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28036
s900,                               88 30, J     /                      8a8oo 00                             87 30'       
18030'                                                              .  Chetum no           M  E XI CO        V                                                   1830
!'Chen           Conselo
*Crozal 
M     E    X    I   C   0                  )                      -              j
Lousvll      Francis                                      /t
0                Progresno      -          ! Igrs
c-. /J  .Z, I                                                       CAP/BB7AN   SE A
San Antonio           C" cOROZAL
Yo               ~~DISTRICT
jCree         arngeWat, S
18000 ,                                                          .AMBERGRIS
/  '-   ~~~~~~~~~~ ~CAY                                                                                          100
PJrIeRidge
| Neoslod'p      n FeSp          e           0 \~% Ms  3-         Soen Pedro
Sor Fel,pe  ~1            okI
\    C h "cogo
OR   DISTRICT            ; ~~~~~~    Sortono Csho
i  ORANGE (/ALK    t  (tzAK                         Creek
|  f   D I S T R I C T      5 ~~r  '-.t       \          -. 
j,onchoeno,-
Dloresl ,-' B            E'                                        '
170 30'                                               B E                                                                                                        17 Z E.- 1  0 30
Hoettvlevl             Belize                  '    / I1
City                         TURNEFFE
~~: ~   ~   relg?    |   >   7^                                 $'    {sE, ~~~ISLANDS     ;
1./                 Wni-ge                    S T R I / C T.
j  0\Ce Roornng Crn                           S R  *                                                                   L/.brhs,P o
San ignocio
MV8zeeino dcullel Ccrmer               .>,sex  Pomonc]  \.                                                   B    E    L    I  Z   E                     17-000r
17ooj    C)0   Y O    D I S T R I C T         )     Aro Vn
JDongriga
,_  X  '  'I   STAN  N   (  --      -       t          r ---              Main Roads:
C R CRE EK   e                                !    ' XOther Roods 
j  /   DiSTRIKiendo.1  .~'   -         8      /J ,7>   {    is       National Capital
*                    @ J  !  i  \   , /  0  District Capitals
 Rrverndale                 0                0       Towns and  Villages
A j  .. Mayan Ruins
Co. (      Oo,rpsenesB961V loge              i                -            District Boundaries
olI~~nh~                                          - ~ ryH  \rm-)Plci  _*_*  International Boundaries
169 300
Medino Bnk                         <                               .    I               KILOMETERS 9         Ip    2,0    30    40    50
ff TOL EDO  HeIlgol;STRICTR -~--------                                      ---          2                      MItES6             10    20              30 M
OcAre                                            870 30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~io 20 3
T~~~ ~~                           , L             igt  S RMonkey Rive,                                             87ei30
San Antonio   Brg Fai t.S.A>.I  'A/ JAN                                                                                                                      C
0 R .- o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The boundaries  o/lors,   4 Mr o> o,=sH AAA
denominations and any                          ~~~~~THE BAHAMAS
0 5, n     .    SAPODILLA CAYS                   ooth nWo-ntion. rncton .                          C               e 
thOi  ,Ofl tde prt Jof
TeWrdBank  'rrP.
Punto Gordo                                              aMEdICC
oraopoo   f sn-h       1                        JAMAICA
..  ooondrarien.  160000     BDIZE                                   OMINICAN
j16oo                         GUf  Zo! Hr"ndu,uos                                                        1600                                                REPUBLIC
>   >--2  0   >o  X                                            _~~~~~~~~~~-WX  Et  4  NICARAG A           : ~~~~~~~~~~~VENEZUJELA
G U A T E eM A,LA\                                80                               Puerto c-ife-s                                                  COOMIA  I       O Ig*     
MAY 1996



