Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3422 BEL
(Primary Education Development Project)
between
BELIZE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 15, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3422 BEL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1992, between BELIZE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Overseas Development Agency 
(ODA) a grant in an amount equivalent to $1,300,000 to assist in the financing of 
Parts A (6) and (7) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the ODA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ODA; 
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BTTC" means Belize Teachers Training College;
 
(b)
"CDU" means the Curriculum Development Unit within MOE;
 
(c)
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Belize established by the 
Central Bank of Belize Act 1982;
(d)
"MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education; and
 
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of seven million one hundred 
thousand dollars ($7,100,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
Page  3
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, economic, educational and financial practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1994 review with 
the Bank: (a) its progress in the implementation of the actions set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement; (b) the changes implemented by the Borrower in its system of 
teacher training, certification and remuneration; and (c) its progress in the 
implementation of the school maintenance plan and the textbook financing scheme 
referred to in Schedule 5, paragraphs (10) and (6), to this Agreement, respectively.
Page  4
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall employ, by no later than 31 March, 1992: (i) a 
vice-principal for school districts in BTTC; and (ii) and examination officer in MOE; 
each such person with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that:
(a)
subject to paragraph (b) of this Section: 
 
(i)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any loan or 
grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms thereof, or
(ii)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
Page  5
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination 
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 
(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ODA Grant Agreement 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower shall have employed a civil works supervisor and a financial 
administrative officer in the unit referred to in Schedule 5, paragraph 1 to this 
Agreement; all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
the Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, preliminary drawings and bidding documents for the works 
included in Part A.6 and Part B of the Project.
Section 6.02. The date April 14, 1992 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Financial Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Belmopan
Belize
Telex:
102 Foreign Belize
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  6
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BELIZE
By /s/ James Hyde
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Rainer Steckhan
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Goods                     1,800,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost)
(2)   Civil Works               2,800,000   
60%
 
(3)   Incremental                 600,000       100% up to the
      Costs                                     time the aggre-
                                                gate amount of
                                                disbursements
                                                under this Cate-
                                                gory reaches the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $100,000; 85% up
                                                to the time the
                                                aggregate amount
                                                of disbursements
                                                under this Cate-
                                                gory reaches the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $202,000; 75% up
                                                to the time the
                                                aggregate amount
                                                of disbursements
                                                under this Cate-
                                                gory reaches the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $314,000; 60% up
                                                to the time the
                                                aggregate amount
                                                of disbursements
                                                under this Cate-
                                                gory reaches the
Page  7
                                                equivalent of
                                                $416,000; 50% up
                                                to the time the
                                                aggregate amount
                                                of disbursements
                                                under this Cate-
                                                gory reaches the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $506,000; 35% up
                                                to the time the
                                                aggregate amount
                                                of disbursements
                                                under this Cate-
                                                gory reaches the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $560,000; and 25%
                                                thereafter
 (4)  Consultants'                 900,000      100% of foreign
     Services                                   expenditures and
                                                60% of local
                                                expenditures
(5)   Training                    500,000       100% of foreign
      Fellowship and                            expenditures and
      Study Trips                               60% of local
                                                expenditures
(6)   Unallocated                 500,000
      TOTAL                     7,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Incremental Costs" means the cost of salary increments to be 
paid to primary school teachers which have completed the training referred to in Part 
A.2 (b) of the Project and not exceeding in the aggregate $735,000, and the 
operational and maintenance costs relating to vehicles and equipment for the 
monitoring and supervision of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$700,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after April 1, 1991.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the quality and efficiency of 
teachers providing primary education; (b) to improve the quality and availability of 
educational facilities and resources; and (c) to strengthen the planning and 
management of the Borrower's education sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Teacher Training
 
1.
Introduction and implementation of a revised training and certification program 
for teachers.
2.
(a) Design of teaching courses, and preparation of instructional materials, for 
Page  8
training teachers in, inter alia, multi-grade teaching, classroom management, methods 
of teaching the syllabuses and familiarization with curricula, and assessment and 
evaluation of pupils' learning; and (b) training of teachers in the training subjects 
referred to in 2 (a) above.
3.
Reorganization and strengthening of BTTC to increase its planning and delivery 
capability including, inter alia, overseas training and short-term study visits abroad 
for BTTC's staff.
4.
In-service training of primary school principals.
 
5.
Supervision of inservice training courses for teachers, overseas training of 
BTTC staff to update and consolidate their skills in distance learning, management of 
teacher training, pupil assessment and professional development, and the management of 
learning resources.
6.
(a) Construction of academic facilities for BTTC; and (b) acquisition and 
distribution of instructional materials, and acquisition and utilization of 
educational equipment for BTTC.
Part B:
School Facilities Improvement
 
1.
Construction or rehabilitation of about 105 classrooms in urban and rural 
schools.
2.
Renovation and/or upgrading of four existing principal houses and construction 
of six new principal houses.
3.
Design and implementation of a pilot scheme of multi-shift schooling involving 
selected schools where overcrowded classrooms are a serious obstacle to effective 
teaching and learning.
Part C:
Curriculum Development and Application
 
Strengthening of the capacity of the CDU through:
(a)
the preparation of a curriculum policy for the Borrower's primary 
education sector;
(b)
the update of primary school curricula in mathematics, language arts, 
social studies, and science; and the development of curriculum guides for all grade 
levels, as well as multi-grade instructions;
(c)
production and distribution of teaching guides and instructional 
materials;
(d)
preparation and implementation of in-service training courses for 
teachers, principals and other education officers to ensure appropriate use of 
curriculum and learning materials;
(e)
development of a language arts program for teaching English and other 
subjects to students who learn English as a second language;
(f)
provision and utilization of equipment and a vehicle for the CDU; and
 
(g)
overseas training, and study visits abroad for the CDU staff.
 
Part D:
Textbooks and Teaching Materials
 
Planning, implementing and monitoring a textbook distribution program which 
shall include, inter alia: (a) the distribution of textbooks for mathematics, reading 
and English to all primary school children; and (b) the distribution of library and 
general reading materials to primary schools.
Part E:
Examination Reform and Assessment
 
1.
Carrying out of diagnostic tests to measure student achievement in mathematics 
and reading at the junior and middle levels of primary education.
2.
Workshops to train teams of examination writers in science, mathematics, 
English, Spanish and the humanities. 
Page  9
3.
Development of a system for processing national examinations on a microcomputer.
 
4.
Carrying out of a campaign to inform the population of the purpose and nature of 
the education examination reform in Belize. 
5.
Training of staff of the examination unit of MOE in examination design and 
administration.
6.
Construction of offices for the examination unit of MOE and provision of the 
equipment and furniture therefor.
Part F:
Planning and Management
 
1.
Strengthening of an education planning unit within MOE through:
 
(a)
training, fellowships and study tours of selected staff;
 
(b)
acquisition and utilization of equipment and materials to facilitate data 
collection, processing and dissemination of its management information system;
(c)
preparation and updating of a school mapping survey for primary and 
secondary schools.
2.
Studies: (a) on the demand and supply of teachers, MOE's staffing policies and 
practices and the incentive system to attract teachers to work in rural and remote 
area schools; and (b) to develop a five-year plan for school construction.
3.
Improvement of MOE's management systems and methods for setting objectives, and 
monitoring and evaluating performance.
4.
Improvement of MOE's budget processing, budget monitoring and accounting system.
 
5.
Construction of an office for the district education officer and facilities for 
three education centers in Punta Gorda, San Ignacio and Dangriga and provision of the 
equipment and furniture therefor.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each 15 January and 15 July, 
beginning 15 July, 1997 through
15 July, 2008
295,000.00
 
      And on January 15, 2009
315,000.00
 
Page  10
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to 
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in  Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Belize may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Page  11
1.
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $2,200,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list 
of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Goods (other than furniture) estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $210,000; and 
furniture up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $320,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
Goods, including furniture estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 
or less per contract, up to aggregate amounts equivalent to $100,000 in respect of 
goods and $150,000 in respect of furniture and consumables, training materials and 
textbooks may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Part A.1 hereof; (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; and (iii) the first two contracts for goods and works procured 
pursuant to the provisions of Part C hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of 
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Actions to be taken by the Borrower
Date (by)
 
1.
(a)
Maintain a Project 
)
implementation unit with       
)
powers, responsibilities       
)
and staffing satisfactory      
)
to the Bank.                   
)
)
Page  12
(b)
Employ: (i) a project director;
)
and (ii) professional staff    
)
and support staff in numbers   
)
and with qualifications and    
)     At all times
under terms of employment      
)     during Project
satisfactory to the Bank.      
)     implementation
)
(c)
Provide promptly as needed     
)
all funds and other resources  
)
as shall be needed for the     
)
operation of such unit.        
)
 
2.
(a)
Employ at least 3 assistant
district education officers.         
June 30, 1992
 
(b)
Employ the key staff in the          
September 30,
Planning Unit of MOE.                
1992
 
(c)
Employ an additional exami-
nation officer in MOE.               
April 30, 1993
 
3.
Without limitation to the provisions
of Section 9.07 of the General Condi-
tions:
(a)
Prepare and furnish to the Bank:
 
(i)
for its review and approval
by January 1, 1992, or
in the event that the Loan
Agreement is not yet
effective by such date,
by July 1, 1992, the first
Project implementation schedule
and expenditure plan in respect
of the first year; and
(ii)
in respect of each sub-
sequent year thereafter,
by January 1, for its
review and approval: (a) an
evaluation of the Project
implementation results and
expenditures for the pre-
ceding year; (b) a review
of achievement and
shortfalls in the carrying
out of the Project to date,
based on established plans
and objectives; (c) an
implementation and expen-
diture plan for the follow-
ing year using criteria
acceptable to the Bank; and
(d) the results of periodic
assessments carried out by MOE
to measure student achievement
at the primary level.
(b)
Promptly take into account the Bank's
views and comments in relation to
the plans and schedules submitted
to the Bank in accordance with (a)
above, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.
4.
Without limitation to the provisions
of Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement
provide in its annual budgets,
and make available promptly
as needed:
Page  13
(a)
for the financing of
the Project, an amount of no
less than: (i) for fiscal year
1992: $500,000 equivalent;
(ii) for fiscal year 1993:
$593,000 equivalent; (iii) for
fiscal year 1994: $678,000
equivalent; (iv) for fiscal year
1995: $679,000 equivalent;
(v) for fiscal year 1996:
$594,000 equivalent; (vi) for
fiscal year 1997: $597,000
equivalent; and (viii) for
fiscal year 1998: $599,000
equivalent; and
(b)
for the financing of operation
and maintenance expenditures of
its primary schools, each fiscal
year, beginning in the fiscal
year commencing on April 1, 1993,
an amount of not less than $300,000
equivalent each fiscal year.
5.
Prepare, and furnish to the Bank for its
comments, a plan for operation and
maintenance of its primary schools.        
December 31, 1992
 
 6.
Adopt a policy, satisfactory to the
Bank, whereby the fees paid by parents
for the textbooks distributed to the
primary school students would be
used by the concerned schools for
purchasing instructional materials. 
May 31, 1992
 
7.
Increase the ratio of certified
teachers to total number of
teachers:
(a)
from 45% to 60%
December 31, 1995
 
(b)
from 60% to 80%
December 31, 1998
 
8.
(a)
Rehabilitate/construct 50
classrooms in primary schools 
December 31, 1993
 
(b)
Rehabilitate/construct 55
new classrooms 
December 31, 1996
 
9.
Initiate the pilot scheme referred
to in Part B.3 of the Project
in 3 urban schools.
September 1, 1993
 
10.
Introduce revised curricula
satisfactory to the Bank:
(a)
in infant, first and
September 30, 
second grade                         
1994
 
(b)
in lower primary grades              
September 30, 1996
 
(c)
in upper primary grades              
September 30, 1998
 
 11.
Increase the ratio of students
provided with basic textbooks
to total number of students:
(a)
to 50%                               
September 30, 1993
 
(b)
to 75%                               
September 30, 1994
 
(c)
to 100%                              
September 30, 1995
Page  14
12.
Complete:
 
(a)
statistical digests on               
December 31 of
enrollment dropout, repeat           
each year com-
rate and other basic educa-          
mencing Decem-
tion data of the primary and         
ber 31, 1992
secondary school students
in its territory;
(b)
school map referred to in            
December 31, 1993
Part F.1 (c) of the Project;
and
(c)
studies included in Part F
(2) of the Project as follows:
(i)
on the demand and supply
of teachers                   
December 31, 1994
 
(ii)
on MOE's staffing policies
and practices and the
teacher incentive systems     
January 31, 1993
 
(iii)
five-year plan for school
construction                  
December 31, 1993
 
13.
(a)
Design, diagnostic tests in math
and language and disseminate and     
September 30,
initiate their use                   
1993
 
(b)
Expand use of such tests
to selected grade levels of
primary school                       
December 31, 1998
 
14.
Construct 3 new education centers          
September 30, 1993
 
15.
Distribute books and other
educational materials to                   
September 30,
teacher resource centers                   
1993
 
16.
Put into place for in-service
training mechanism for primary
school teachers at the district
level:
(a)
in at least three districts          
September 30, 1993
 
(b)
in at least three other              
September 30,
districts                            
1994
 
17.
(a)
Commence the implementation
of an improved program and
financial management system;
and                                  
December 31, 1996
 
(b)
complete such implementation         
December 31, 1997
 
18.
Complete initial inservice
training for all primary
school principals                          
December 31, 1995
 
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  15
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
Page  16
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
