Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20172 BIH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN/CREDIT/TRUST FUND 29060; 20434)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9.175 MILLION
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR AN EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT
March 27, 2000
Bosnia and Herzegovina Country Unit
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
HLEn  C U
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 1999)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka
1 KM = US$ 1.8
US$1  =0.56 KM
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARBH         -      Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina
BH           -      Bosnia and Herzegovina
CY           -      Calendar Year
DC           -      Direct Contracting
Federation   -      Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovma
EBRD         -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU           -      European Union
ETF          -      Employment and Training Foundation
FY           -      Fiscal Year of the World Bank
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
GNP          -      Gross National Product
GPN          -      General Procurement Notice
HVO          -      Bosnian Croat Army
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA          -      International Development Association
IMF          -      International Monetary Fund
IS           -      International Shopping
LIB          -      Limited International Bidding
LMI          -      Labor Market Information
NS           -      National Shopping
OECD         -      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PIP          -      Project Implementation Plan
PIU          -      Project Implementation Unit
RS           -      Republika Srpska
SNCB         -      Simplified National Competitive Bidding
SOE          -      Statement of Expenditures
TA           -      Technical Assistance
TFBH         -      Trust Fund for Reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina
TOR          -      Terms of Reference
UNHCR        -      United Nations High Commission for Refugees
USDOL        -      United States Department of Labor
Vice President:   Johanes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:   Christiaan J. Poortman, ECC04
Sector Manager:   James A. Socknat
Task Team Leader:   Ilona E. Szemzo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2906 BOS
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                             1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                            1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                  2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                     6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                      11
6. Sustainability                                                                          12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                           12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                         14
9. Partner Comments                                                                        16
10. Additional Information                                                                 16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                       17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                       18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                       20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                       21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                       23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                          24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                      25
Annex 8. Contribution of Main Cofinanciers to the Project                                  26
Annex 9. Borrower Contribution to the ICR                                                  27
Map 28578R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P044521                                         Project Name: EMG DEMOB. & REINTEG
Team Leader: Ilona E. Szemzo                                TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: March 27, 2000
1. Project Data
AName. EMG DEMOB. & REINTEG                               LIC Number: 29060; 20434
Country/Departmnent: BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA                                    Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector. SS - Social Sector Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            RevisediActual
PCD:  04/06/96                                  Effective: 08/28/96            08/28/96
Appraisal:  02/05/96                                    MTR:
Approval:  07/30/96                                  Closing: 01/31/99             09/30/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: FEDERATION AND RS MINISTRIES OF FINANCE - B&H/EMPLOYMENT
AND TRAINING FOUNDATIONS
Other Partners: Government of Sweden; Government of the Netherlands; USAID/USDOL
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Johannes F. Linn                            Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:      Christiaan J. Poortman                      Christine Wallich
Sector Manager:       James A. Socknat                            Ralph W. Harbison
Teamn Leader at ICR.   Ilona E. Szemzo                            David Herbert Fretwell
ICR Primary Author:   Zorica Lesic; Ilona E. Szemzo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M-lModest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development M
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Pertfrrmance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
In December 1995, a comprehensive Reconstruction Program was developed for
Bosnia and Herzegovina (Bill). It identified reconstruction needs in 13 different
sectors, and estimated total costs at US$5.2 billion. This Program was presented to
the international donor community, and pledges for funding specific
projects/activities was requested on a yearly basis, to achieve the reconstruction of
BiH. The overall program included a substantive indirect effort to reintegrate
demobilized soldiers, returning refugees and the general unemployed to the civilian
workforce. Demobilized soldiers had, in general, lower professional qualifications,
or qualifications that did not match the economic environment where they were now
located, and represented a high risk to the Government for security, humanitarian and
economic reasons. Thus, a reintegration strategy was required to assist individuals
who were not spontaneously drawn into reconstruction-related employrnent. The
reconstruction program for Bosnia, supported by the Bank and other donors,
included a specific initiative to address these needs, i.e. the Emergency
Demobilization and Reintegration Project. In addition, two other projects the Local
Initiatives Project and the Public Works and Employrnent Project, indirectly address
the demobilized soldiers' needs since one of their objectives was to put people back
to work quickly, in temporary employment.
The overall objective of the Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project
was to assist with the long-term economic reintegration of displaced workers into the
civilian workforce in order to reduce the burden on families, decrease dependency on
eventual social assistance, and increase economic productivity. The Demobilization
and Reintegration Project was designed to explicitly and systematically address the
need for employment counseling, and for education and retraining of the target
population, to adjust their skills to market needs. The primary target group was
demobilized soldiers. Secondary target groups included refugees, war victims and
the disabled, widows and the general unemployed. The Project was presented to the
Board with a financing gap of US$12.5 million. Given this substantive financing gap,
the Project was designed in a phased modular fashion, in order to ensure successful
implementation even if other donors were not forthcoming. This particular design
allowed the Bank to implement all of its planned activities as programmed during
appraisal without having to be concerned about prospective donor contributions.
Donors could participate in any of the components by adding additional funds at any
time. Donors interested in participating in the counseling and training Fund could opt
to implement activities within any of the menu items (i.e. counseling, training,
re-training). As long as any donor was willing to utilize the basic management
structure and framework designed by the Bank, donors could opt to participate in the
funding of counseling and/or training activities within a time schedule which suited
the given donor's needs, within particular areas or regions of the country, and giving
priority to the particular portion of the target populations which they were interested
in supporting. Given original interest from various members of the international
community, it was estimated that the financing gap would be substantially decreased
-2 -



during Project implementation. However, a limited number of pledges actually
materialized, and Annex 8 shows the list of co-financiers and their respective
contributions to the Project.
The objectives of the Project were clear and, for the most part, realistic. Project
objectives were rather ambitious, however, in terms of: (i) the number of participants
it intended to cover; and (ii) the level of effort required to ensure coordination among
the various ethnic groups, for the long term development of selected elements (e.g.
labor market information) for the Employment Bureaus, across the two Entities and
three constituent people. One of the major objectives which was fully achieved was
the creation of a tripartite Employment and Training Foundation (ETF) in each Entity
to manage all employment related projects including Demobilization and
Reintegration, Public Works and Employment, and Local Initiatives. Each Entity
ETF established its Board of Trustees composed of government agencies including
Ministries of Finance, Defense, Refugees and Social Affairs, and Education;
Employment Institutes, Chambers of Commerce and trade union representatives.
This encouraged the transfer of responsibility from the Ministry of Defense to civilian
authorities, as well as provided an opportunity to strengthen the social dialogue. The
ETFs provided the framework for enabling the provision of public financing to
private and public local service providers, including NGOs, which provided services
to demobilized soldiers and other target populations. Other Bank- financed projects
(e.g. the Public Employment and Local Initiatives Projects) and other donors (Dutch,
Swedish, Swiss, Italian, EU, etc.) also used the ETF framework. Two Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) were established, one in each Entity, to provide
management support to their respective ETF and to be responsible for
implementation in each Entity. The two PIUs were able to establish a good
working relationship across Entities, and became a model of cooperation for others
to observe and learn from.
The Project was able to meet many of its objectives despite a large financing gap. In
the case of training and retraining services, the Project exceeded targets in unit terms,
since provision of services reached 20,000 people (62 percent of APR estimates) with
US$6.6 million (41 percent of APR estimates). A comprehensive, quasi-
experimental design, Net Impact Evaluation Study is presently underway. The Study
will provide detailed information on the medium-term impact of the Project. The
Project required intensive supervision for two principal reasons: (i) strong support
was required to create and maintain new local structures, especially during the first
year of implementation within a very difficult political environment; and (ii) major
efforts were required to convince donors of the importance to finance the long-term
employment generation efforts of this Project, given its competition with more
popular areas for financing, e.g. micro-credit and public works. Although the PIUs
have gathered extensive experience in the management of the evaluation and approval
of private and public provision of a variety of active labor programs, this knowledge
has not yet permeated to the Employment Institutes and municipal employment
offices. This situation affects the long term sustainability of the Project's objectives.
-3 -



It must also be noted that the structure of BiH with three Employment Bureaus
complicated the implementation of the Labor Market Information (LMI) component.
The LMI is not being utilized to its fuillest potential due to the lack of communication
between the two Entities and three Employment Institutes. Procurement delays
associated with the LMI component were due to lack of experience with Bank
procedures (paragraph 5.3 and 5.5 below). This delay had repercussions on the
speed of disbursements, and required the extension of the Project by an additional
eight months. Despite these shortfalls, and as detailed in the sections below, the
Project has responded to the country's needs.
3.2 Revised Objective.
The objectives remained unchanged.
3.3 Original Components:
The four components of the Project, with expected financing at appraisal were:
* Labor Market Information Database (US$1.5 million)
The Project financed limited computer hardware, software and technical assistance to help
reestablish the basic labor market information required for employment counseling. It included
replacement of data processing equipment in the municipal employment offices which was
destroyed or lost during the war, and broadening labor market information databases maintained
by these offices to include job vacancies created by the reconstruction program and special
characteristics of demobilized soldiers who are seeking employment.
*  Counseling and Job-Finding Services (US$1.8 million)
The Project financed limited technical assistance to help develop counseling and job-finding
services. The Project also financed the provision of counseling and job-finding services targeted
principally to demobilized soldiers and other job seekers under criteria and procedures agreed
with IDA. Covered services included family and social counseling, job search assistance, screening
of individuals for trauma counseling and provision of information on legal rights and
responsibilities in civilian life.
* Education and Retraining Services (US$16.00 million)
The Project financed provision of on-the-job training and institution-based training to
approximately 20,000 demobilized solders, and other target groups. The provision of these
services was demand-driven, in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed with IDA. Local
employers, public and private institutions and NGOs developed proposals in consultation with local
government, other employers, and workers' representatives. Proposals were reviewed against
criteria which: (i) specified what kinds of expenses could be financed, (ii) established the
qualifications required of providers, and iii) provided evidence of relevance of training to local
employment needs. Training providers were required to take the major responsibility for job
placement of graduates, since they were required to sign training contracts with pre-negotiated job
placement rates. For approved proposals, education/training contracts were awarded to service
providers selected on the basis of professional qualifications and delivery capacity. These included
non-governmental organizations (NGOs), private and public firms, and private and public
education/training institutions. Compensation to service providers was clearly defined and was
- 4 -



dependent upon the agreed unit costs per trainee, multiplied by the number of trainees served.
Compensation also included performance bonuses, i.e. financial incentives for meeting or
exceeding pre-negotiated job placement rates.
*  Management Assistance (US$0.7 million)
The Project financed limited technical assistance -- international consultants, local consultants,
and goods -- to develop and maintain a management unit in each of the two Employment and
Training Foundations (ETF) established in the Federation and the Republika Srpska to implement
the Project. The respective ETFs were also responsible for coordinating the Emergency Public
Works and Employment Project. Financing was provided for additional management personnel
within each of these projects.
Implementation/Supervision
Implementation was carried out by service providers which were selected in a competitive,
demand driven basis. Monitoring of implementation was primarily carried out by the PIUs
established in each Entity. With the support of USDOL (their technical assistance contractor), the
ETFs and the PIUs developed all the technical and legal instruments necessary to provide a legal
framework, and carry out the Project successfully. The two PIUs established a system of
"extension agents" to maintain continuous contact with local govemmental authorities, service
providers and clients. Supervision was carried out at several levels: (a) by the extension agents
for their respective PIU; (b) by PIU staff on a period basis; and (c) by World Bank staff both
resident in the field and from the Hungary Hub. This intensive method of supervision allowed for
rapid correction when needed, including removal of the Deputy PIU Director in the Federation,
early on during Project implementation. Over the life of the Project, it has assured institutional
know-how in both PIUs as well as the three Employment Institutes, and will provide valuable
technical know-how for the forthcoming Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
(Demobilization II), presently under preparation.
Coordination
Coordination between donors was ensured: (i) at a general level by regular updates (both in the
form of progress reports prepared by the Bank, and donor conferences co-chaired by the
European Union and the Bank); (ii) an international donor conference was organized at the local
level - jointly by the two PIUs - in 1998 to seek additional donor support, (iii) at an Entity level
by the dissemination of relevant information during ETF meetings; and (iv) with respect to
specific activities of interest to particular donor(s), mainly through briefings carried out by the
Bank staff resident in Sarajevo, as well as staff resident in the Regional office in Hungary.
3.4 Revised Components.
The components remained unchanged, although the employment and counseling fund did not
meet expected financing since donor support did not fully materialize and the financing gap was
only partially ameliorated (Annex 2 - Project Costs by Component).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. This is based on the consistency of the objectives
- 5 -



with the overall reconstruction program as well as with governments' priorities. Since late 1995,
with the signature of the Dayton Agreement, demobilization was one of the basic requirements
and one of the highest priorities for the Government of BiH for security, humanitarian, and
economic reasons. This urgent short term issue was considered in the context of other pressing
needs, such as the large number of refugees, who also needed to be reintegrated into the economy
as well as the medium term challenges which included rebuilding the basic institutions necessary
to operate a market economy. The assumption about needs, implementation arrangements,
capacity, and priorities were, as it turned out, realistic and in line with the situation on the ground
as it unfolded.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
When commenting on the outcome/achievements it is necessary to consider all aspects of the
reintegration strategy for BiH. In most countries where the Bank is involved in a similar effort, a
project is designed to include: (a) provision of counseling and job-placement services, (b) support
for small business creation, including access to credit, (c) support for education and retraining to
adjust job seekers' qualifications to labor-market needs, (d) support for transitional temporary
employment through public works and public service employment, and (e) temporary income
support/cash benefits. This sort of approach takes into consideration that not all individuals will
need assistance, and no one program can solve all problems.
In the case of BiH, three distinct projects, with three separate PIUs were approved to cover
objectives (a) through (d), and a sub-component of the Emergency Recovery Project covered (e)
above. This is clearly not the optimal organizational structure. This piecemeal approach resulted
from the uncoordinated impetus of various Bank departments to provide support to a war-torn
country immediately after the cease-fire. The Demobilization and Reintegration Project was
particularly successful at achieving objective (a) since there was no prior experience in BiH with
the provision of job counseling and trauma counseling services. Thirty-six contracts were signed
with public and private providers, which benefited over 3,000 members of the target populations.
Objective (c) exceeded targets in unit terms, since provision of services reached 20,000 people
(62% of APR estimates), with US$6.6 million (41% of APR estimates). Considering the high rate
of taxes on wages (presently 64%) the achievement is even more impressive, since over 80% of
trainees were lawfully employed for at least six month after the completion of their training. The
management assistance component of the project provided support and guidance in setting up the
overall institutional framework, including the Entity ETFs which paved the way for the successful
implementation of three Bank financed projects. It also provided support to develop most of the
manuals required for evaluation and selection of proposals, provided guidance in the
establishment of western-European dissemination standards; broadened scope of BiH institutions
by providing study tours to relevant counterpart institutions in Western Europe and the United
States, and thus expanded institution-building efforts. Within this scenario, the project's
components were adequately designed to ensure that the project could reach its objectives. The
majority of activities envisaged at appraisal have been completed effectively. The LMI
component has yet to achieve its potential. At present it is not being used to match job
opportunities with job seekers, across BiH, due to lack of communication among the three
Employment Institutes in BiH. The LMI system could facilitate the development of modern
- 6 -



employment offices, capable of delivering counseling and job-finding services on par with the rest
of Europe. This potential has yet to be realized due to the stratified nature of the three
Employment Institutes and their lack of communication for political reasons.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(1)   Development of an automated Labor Market Information Data Base
The execution of this component was very successful, in particular, given the political
environment in which the component had to operate. With the support of this project, BiH has
developed a computerized Labor Market Information (LMI) system capable of matching the
skills of individual unemployed workers with the specific hiring needs of enterprises that are
emerging, restarting or expanding. The systems were successfully introduced in most municipal
labor offices by September 1999. Furthermore, the process of procuring goods and services for
this subcomponent has been hailed as a model of cooperation among the three constituent people
of BiH. The LMI subcomponent has provided computer hardware to 191 employment offices
throughout both Entities, including initial training in the use of the hardware and standard office
software. The Software systems developed and installed, allow for: (a) registering unemployed
people who seek employment assistance through Employment Institute offices; (b) collecting
information from employers who seek job applicants registered with the Employment Institutes;
and (c) reporting on labor market information that can be derived through these labor exchange
transactions in order to assist agencies responsible for organizing services (e.g. counseling,
retraining, small business assistance, public works) for demobilized soldiers and displaced
workers. Despite the availability of hardware and software, only one of the constituent groups in
the Federation is presently using all the capabilities of the new system. Due to continued political
sensitivity there is no concerted effort to share information within the Federation's constituent
groups or across Entities either.
(2)   Counseling and Job-Finding Services
This component provided refined employment counseling and job search assistance to
unemployed workers, starting with the development of training and extension services materials
for service providers. The need for these services was quite high, as demonstrated by the number
of persons seeking services and the number of NGOs willing to provide these services (see table
below). Clients participating in these counseling services learned how to identify their relevant
work experiences and skills and concisely describe these in a resume. They also learned effective
ways to identify potential employment opportunities, make job applications and seek interviews,
as well as conduct impressionable interviews. It is a fair assumption to expect that more of those
who received this counseling will subsequently find employment as a result of the information and
job finding skills they obtained through this component.
Entity                    Contracts          Clients Served     Job Placement Rate
Federation of BiH            22                  2,643                26%
Republika Srpska              13                  681                 34%
(RS Trauma Referral)         1                  (385)                 n.a.
-7 -



|   Total  |    36          1       3,324                27%
There was also an effort to develop trauma referral services for unemployed demobilized soldiers,
refugees and members of other populations who manifested symptoms of post-traumatic stress.
Since individuals who suffer from this war-related condition may be incapacitated in conducting
an effective search for employment or, if successful in doing so, less able to keep such
employment. The programs were successfully introduced in the RS, where approximately 385
individuals received post-traumatic stress counseling. The effort to provide trauma referral did not
prosper in the Federation due to the lack of emergence of providers of this type of counseling
services.
(3)   Demand Driven Education and Retraining Services
This component was successful in providing demand-driven, relevant training for displaced
workers as well as those who lacked prior work experience and thus required re-training for
emerging employment opportunities. Emphasis was made to serve demobilized soldiers and assist
them in finding productive employment by targeting 65% of available resources to their target
group, during the first two years of Project implementation. Local private and public enterprises
and, to a lessor extent, educational institutions were the providers of training. About one
hundred small enterprises were able to start-up operations on the basis of the financial support
they received from this Project, by allowing them to train and then select the best performers to
become their employees. Employment follow-up for the first six months after completion of
training has been provided by the respective PIUs. It has been confirmed that most of the trainees
have maintained their new jobs for the agreed six months period after completion of training. A
comprehensive quasi-experimental design Net Impact Evaluation Study is presently underway,
and it will provide the Government and the Bank with the medium-term impact of these activities.
On-the Job Training (OJT)
In order to assure the relevance of the training, and the provision of training in areas where there
would actually be jobs available at the completion of training, all providers had to commit to
hiring 80 percent of the people they trained. This reduced possibility of large public sector
enterprises seeking training funds for employees who would later find themselves without a job.
Most contracts have fulfilled the expected rates of recruitment after completion of training.
There were only a few instances where the PIUs' extension agents were able to identify the
impossibility of meeting these targets early on, and these contracts were terminated immediately.
In several instances the enterprises hired a larger number of trainees than originally anticipated.
Thus, placement rates of 82% were achieved overall in this sub-component.
Institutional Training (IT)
Educational institutions that provided training usually did so on a more formal basis in classrooms
or in environments that mirrored actual work settings, or was arranged in cooperation with
employers. Institutions obtaining these contracts were committed to find employment for 60
percent of those they trained. Principally because of this requirement, early on during
implementation, it was difficult to find institutions willing to enter into a contract. Furthermore,
many institutions were simply unable to provide services because of damage to their facilities
- 8 -



incurred during the war. Eventually sufficient demand forced institutions to provide these
services, with significantly higher employment rates than originally envisaged. The Federation
was able to achieve an 86% placement rate, and the RS reached placement rates of 69%, with a
combined placement rate of 81 %. This performance which significantly exceeded contract
requirements was largely achieved because institutions willing to undertake a contract also
developed strong relationships with local enterprises and industries that provided assurance of
their need for workers in occupations in which the institutions provided training.
Entity     Number of Clients  Job Placement  Number of Clients  Job Placement
OJT             Rate              IT              Rate
Federation        14,712           80%               865             86%
RS             5,198            88%              368              69%
Total           19,910           82%              1,233            81%
It is important to stress in closing this section, that the Project provided for the development of
one Fund which included a series of menu options, i.e. employment counseling, trauma
counseling, on the job training, institutional training, etc. At appraisal, it was agreed to set aside
about 10% of IDA resources allocated to this Fund (Components 2 and 3) for employment
counseling purposes. During implementation slight adjustments were made to accommodate
demand resulting in an adjusted utilization of 9% for counseling and job-finding purposes and
91% for education and retraining services. Donors interested in participating in the above listed
activities, were able to contribute to those menu items which were important to them. Some
donors participated in the funding of education and retraining activities only, others participated
across the spectrum of activities. One donor prioritized activities in the Republika Srpska, the
other only in the Federation. Basically, the design of the funding mechanism proved to be
extremely well suited to the country's circumstances and to donors' interests.
(4)   Project Management
Technical assistance was provided by the International Labor Affairs Bureau of the United States
Department of Labor (USDOL) in the following areas:
(a)   Development of institutional structures for the PIUs in both Entities, as well as the
creation of a macro structure, the Employment and Training Foundation (ETF) for each Entity.
Support to develop procedures and controls necessary to ensure that planned services responded
to demands from the economy and labor market and that counseling and training contracts were
procured according to the requirements established by World Bank procurement regulations.
Administrative Operations Manuals were developed for both PIUs to provide uniform guidance in
cost controls, personnel management and monitoring procedures.
(b)   Counseling practices and approaches from other parts of the world, were adapted to the
realities and cultures of Bosnia. Manuals were developed to assist employment institute
practitioners and NGOs in conducting proactive job development searches, as well as to identify
and make appropriate referrals for clients who may suffer from post traumatic stress disorders
-9-



(PTSD). A third manual was developed to help job seekers make organized and effective
searches for employment, develop resumes that reflected their skills and suitability for work and
prepare for job interviews. These manuals were translated, tested, refined and distributed to the
three Employment Institutes in BiH, and to private and public counseling organizations that
received contracts to provide services through the PIUs. The Mostar Employment Institute
published several thousand copies of the job search manual for distribution to clients seeking
employment through their system.
(c)    A working group was organized to identify specifications for the LMI data system and
generally provided oversight in its development. This group was comprised of representatives
from the three Employment Institutes, and PIU representatives from both entities. The LMI
development, testing and initial implementation was successfully completed by December 1999.
(d)   Incremental Operation Costs. During project implementation, the Borrower requested,
and the Bank approved an amendment to Schedule 1 of the respective Credit Agreements in order
to introduce a fifth category of expenditures to provide for the accounting of operational
expenditures. Given the complexities of the post-conflict situation, and lack of adequate banking
facilities, original Project design included the recruitment of an intermediary to pay the salaries of
PIU staff in both Entities. The provision of this intermediary had been included within the
responsibilities of the technical assistance contractor. Due to the excessive overhead required to
pay this third party, which had to transport and provide cash for staff salaries on a monthly basis,
the RS PIU would have exhausted its available resources substantially ahead of plan. The high
overhead costs were justified at project inception, since there were no other mechanisms to assure
prompt payment of salaries to staff and lack of political interference in their selection. As
communications between the Entities improved and banking transactions were normalized, the
need for this intermediary disappeared. The Bank understood the changed circumstances and
agreed to the RS PIUs request to pay their salaries directly, thus removing the third party
intermediary from this transaction. The RS PIU therefore issued salary payments from a new
"Incremental Operating Costs" category. Project Management is considered highly satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the Demobilization and Reintegration Project has been
substantial in the RS, where this project was managed together with the Public Works and Local
Initiatives Project at a macro level. There has been less of an institutional development impact in
the Federation, where for political reasons three completely separate PIUs were established, and
although under one ETF, did not share any kind of information or common practices. The three
employment bureaus have been individually strengthened, as well as the municipal offices, with
new computer equipment and training, as a result of the Project, to provide improved services to
their customers. For political reasons, there is continued lack of progress in communication and
sharing of labor market information between the Entities and the three constituent peoples of BiH,
a fact which is outside the control of this Project. Thus, the institutional development impact for
the entire BiH as a whole must be considered modest.
- 10 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governmnent or implementing agency:
The single main factor outside of the government's control which affected the overall scope of
activities undertaken, was the lack of additional donor financing to close the financing gap of
US$12.5 million. Only US$1.675 million were forthcoming, of which US$1.375 million was
provided by the Dutch Government, and US$0.3 million was provided by the Swedish
Government. An additional US$350,000 pledge is presently under discussion with the Dutch
Government. The lack of additional donor financing affected the size of the Fund, and the
number of prospective clients that could be served. Thus, the breath of activities within the
Project had to be substantially reduced, despite substantial demand for services. Since the Project
had been designed in a phased modular fashion, all types of activities originally planned were
implemented, albeit within a significantly reduced scope (e.g. the retraining component received
only 41% of the originally anticipated resources, and was able to provide services to 62% of the
original target population).
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Unresolved political issues between and within the Entities have so far impeded the efficient flow
of labor market information within the Federation, and across Entities. Furthermore, from the
three existing Employment Institutes, only the Mostar Employment Institute has been publishing
monthly employment data and distributing it widely. They are also the only ones who have
provided active support to their clients seeking employment, published several thousand copies of
the job search manual and generally trained their local offices to actively support job seekers. The
other two Employment Institutes have continued in their traditional (pre-war) role, and although
they now have modern instruments at their disposal to provide active labor programs support to
clients, they have not yet been able to do so in any systematic fashion.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Both PIU's performed their roles adequately. The RS PIU managed all aspects of project
implementation efficiently and effectively throughout the entire period of implementation. The
Federation PIU had difficulties during the early months of project execution. Implementation
improved considerably after the removal of the Federation Deputy Director and his replacement
by an efficient manager. Cooperation between the two PIU's was exemplary, and has been a major
contributing factor for the efficient implementation of the LMI component. There was only one
procurement action which in retrospect significantly delayed the LMI component's
implementation. (see paragraph 5.5)
5.4 Costs and financing:
Satisfactory implementation was achieved at lower costs that originally envisaged. Due to
significant shortfalls in additional financing, the project operated with a financing gap of
US$10.82 million. At appraisal it had been estimated that US$18.5 million had been expected to
provide services for 35,000 individuals (including management and administration costs). Actual
available resources were US$9. 175 million (49% of APR estimates) and provided services to over
23,000 individuals (65% of APR estimates). These higher outputs, given available resources,
were achieved by lowering average unit costs. Average unit costs for education and retraining
were estimated at US$500 during appraisal. Average unit costs during implementation were
closer to US$350 per client. The main factors affecting the reduction in unit costs were (a)
- 11 -



progressive experience of the PlUs in their ability to negotiate contracts, while maintaining
performance standards, and (b) the effective enforcement of incentives (10% for exceeding
placement rates) and loss of last payment for not achieving agreed placement rates.
5.5 Inplementation cInd disbursement delays
The delays in implementation which led to the postponement of the Bank Credit closing date
(from January 31, 1999 to September 30, 1999) are attributed to the delay in procurement of
software development services for the LMI component (paragraph 5.3 above). Lack of experience
with Bank procurement procedures, within the evaluation committee, led to a serious procedural
error, which required nine months of interaction with Bank procurement experts for a satisfactory
resolution. This was the first post-war contract to be signed between firms of the two entities and
three constituent peoples - and was hailed even in the local press as a hopeful sign for the future.
The Federation PCU advanced funds from the special account to a local currency account in a
BiH Bank. This BiH Bank - Saab Bank was closed by banking authorities during the course of
1999. As of December 1999, the amount unclaimed is US$54,842 equivalent to DEM99,814.
Resolution of this amount is still pending. These funds remain to be justified to the Bank before
the loan is closed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The ETFs in both Entities, through their respective PIUs, have learned how to evaluate and
approve the private and public provision of a variety of active labor programs. Given willingness
and further training, the three Employment Institutes could continue to provide these services in
the future. For the short term, a new Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
(Demobilization II) will utilize the institutional knowledge gained through the Emergency
Demobilization and Reintegration Project to provide active labor programs for the next wave of
soldiers to be demobilized. These activities could be extended to the general unemployed with the
availability of additional resources.
6.2 Transition arrangement t.o regular operations.
The Bank has been engaged in a lengthy dialogue with BiH authorities in order to develop labor
and employment legislation which would assure long term viability for the financing of these
services. The Social Sectors Adjustment Credit (SOSAC) includes conditionality to support this
initiative. The new Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project will provide the transitional
institutional arrangements to maintain skills learned during this transition period. In the longer
term BiH should modernize its Employment Institutes, coordinate them and provide public
financing with private provision of counseling, training and retraining services, for efficiency and
equity gains. Other countries (Poland, Hungary, Macedonia, Turkey) have embarked in this
process with Bank support and are already reaping the benefits. BiH could be the next country to
benefit from this approach.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.  Lending:
The Bank's preparation effort was very fast and fully corresponded to the emergency nature of the
- 12-



project, since a large number of soldiers were being demobilized from the three armies which had
been at war with each other until just a few months before. The identification rnission took place
in February 1996. Given the emergency nature of the project, and the fact that the country had
not been accessible for any Bank economic or sector work over the previous five years, the
project was based essentially on the content of the first donor conference report and on
information gathered during identification and appraisal. Appraisal took place in April/May 1996,
followed by negotiations in June 1996, and Board approval on July 30, 1996. The project became
effective on August 28, 1996 which was record time for a country in the situation of BiH,
reflecting the high priority given to this operation by all sides. Given the prevailing conditions
after signature of the Dayton Accord, the pace and substance of the project lending phase
represents a very speedy and adequate reaction from the Bank's perspective. Thus, the
performance of the Bank during the project lending phase is rated as satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
During the first year and a half of implementation a Social Sectors Operations officer was
stationed in Sarajevo. With the leadership of the Senior Employment and Training Specialist and
the support of a locally recruited Project Officer, the project received intensive supervision and
monitoring until all systems were in place. This continuous presence in the field allowed for
almost daily contact with both PIUs as well as the three Employment Bureaus during the critical
start-up phase. Procurement planning was adequate and except for the problem experienced in
the LMI component (paragraphs 5.3 and 5.5), procurement was carried out throughout the life of
the project as originally envisaged. The Bank was able to spot inconsistencies in the Federation,
and acted swiftly to request the removal of a Deputy PIU Director who was responsible for the
problems. The Federation PIU was efficient in recruiting another Deputy PIU Director who
performed her duties exemplary throughout the rest of the project. From 1998 on, supervision
missions were carried out twice a year, and continued support was provided by the Project Officer
in Sarajevo. The Bank's performance during project implementation is rated as fully satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank perfbrmance:
Overall, the Bank's performance can be rated as satisfactory, not only in relation to the objectives
of the project, but also with respect to the achievements in cooperation among the three groups.
The Bank took a leading role in setting up and supporting local project implementation capacity
building, which as detailed below, turned out to be the best long-term investment. The PIUs were
able to implement efficiently subprojects funded by the Bank as well as other donors.
Furthermore, the Bank did have a role in helping to secure some cofinancing for the project, albeit
in substantially smaller amounts than originally envisaged.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
One of the key achievements of this Project was to assist the Government in setting up a structure
conducive to the implementation of a variety of active labor programs. The Borrower
participated in a satisfactory manner in the preparation of the project, despite the number of
competing demands on their time. The Ministry of Finance representatives from both Entities
were eager to develop an institutional framework which would create the capacity to implement
the Project. Both Ministries of Finance provided a leadership role in the creation of both entities'
Employment and Training Foundations. Without these Foundations it would not have been
- 13 -



possible to implement this project, or the other two that followed, i.e. Public Works and Local
Initiatives. Therefore, the preparation efforts of the Borrower are considered satisfactory.
7.5 Government implemientation performance:
During implementation, government structures at two levels were responsible for smooth
implementation. Both Entity Ministries of Finance were responsible for overall supervision,
chairing of ETF meetings, and providing general project and policy advise. In later years, in the
Federation the Ministry of Social Affairs, Displaced Persons and Refugees took over this
responsibility from the Ministry of Finance. The Federation Ministry of Social Affairs, Displaced
Persons and Refugees and the Republika Srpska Ministry of Finance provided leadership on
policy issues throughout the life of the project. Yet, the three Employment Institutes have not
regularized their communication patterns, and therefore have not allowed for free flow of
information across BiH. Thus, the performance of the Borrower during implementation is rated
as marginally satisfactory.
7.6 Inmplementing Agency:
The implementation of the project was undertaken by two Entity level PIUs. In the Federation,
the Demobilization and Reintegration PIU was responsible for the implementation of this Project
and had no interaction with the other two PIUs implementing the Public Works Project and the
Local Initiatives Project. In Republika Srpska, a more adequate model was developed, and the
ETF was made responsible for the implementation of the three projects, thus gaining economies
of scale and cross fertilization of ideas. After a few initial hiccups in the Federation PIU,
described in paragraph 7.2., both PIUs worked in a coordinated fashion which benefited the
project as a whole. At a time when physical interaction was impossible due to security concerns,
the technical assistance contractor hired by the PIUs provided an essential link between both
Entities which the PIUs continued to develop further on their own. Their achievements are
described in the Borrower Implementation Completion Report which is included as Annex 9 (at
the end of Annex 7). The two PIUs gained experienced during the initial phases of
implementation and were capable of adjusting as external circumstances changed. The PIUs also
took a leading role in proposing improvements and modifications to the manuals and procedures
utilized during implementation. The PlUs have evolved into well functioning units which, with
appropriate financial resources, could fulfill the leadership role required to bring the Employment
Institutes into the 21 st century. The performance of the PIUs was highly satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower perjornance.
The overall Borrower performance is considered satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The creation of two Entity level Employment and Training Foundations was crucial for speedy
project implementation. Their tasks were confined to project implementation issues, so that their
attention would be fully focused on this objective. The creation of the PIUs was also necessary,
since the three Employment Bureaus were functioning within the old communist style modus
operandi and were not ready to provide demand driven redeployment services nor did they
provide the necessary environment to promote social dialogue among the various parties involved.
In the long run, these PIUs need to be integrated as a permanent structure in order to
institutionalize the experience gained by the PIUs and the Employment and Training Foundations
- 14 -



in the management of the various active labor programs they have administered during the past
three years. It would be envisaged that these activities could be undertaken in a manner similar to
what is being done in OECD countries as well as in other Central and Eastern European
countries.
The three existing Employment and Training Institutes would not be able to operate ETF
programs without considerable reform. They would need to be substantially reformed in order to
more efficiently administer unemployment benefits, as well as a range of active labor programs
such as those being operated successfully by the ETFs. Furthermore, a significantly expanded
menu of services could be provided to the unemployed. In particular, based on the experiences
gained in other transition economies (especially from Poland, Hungary and Macedonia), the ETFs
could be ready to include new labor redeployment mechanisms: including: small business
assistance, community temporary employment, incubators, and other successful services to create
long term employment. These measures would have to go hand in hand with the analysis of
alternative methods for financing active labor programs, including allocating a portion of the
Unemployment Insurance Funds, providing separate Entity budget funds, and/or using part of the
proceeds from privatization to finance programs targeted to large groups of individuals displaced
by privatization and restructuring (particularly those displace in mono-enterprise communities).
Furthermore, an analysis of the enabling environment for job creation is also required. Due to
present heavy taxes on employers (64% of wage bill), there is a lack of incentives for legalizing
the status of "gray market" jobs. Heavy taxes on wages are also a disincentive for creating new
small and medium size enterprises, which would be the main source for long-term job creation in
the economy.
The Project derived most of its funding from the Bank loan, and in smaller amounts from the
Dutch and Swedish Governments' donations. It has been a puzzle to all concerned why the more
shorter term activities included in the provision of public works and small credits were so much
more successful in locking in additional donor support. It would be worth investigating further.
The particular circumstances under which the project was implemented have allowed us several
important lessons to be learned in order to achieve the principal goal of emergency provision of
services to demobilized soldiers:
(a) the scope of the project should kept simple, and in a phased modular fashion which allowed all
activities to go forward (albeit at a slower pace) even when donor funding was not forthcoming;
(b) the Bank's procurement rules should be relevant to country circumstances. In the case of
Bosnia, procurement procedures were simplified - on a temporary basis - immediately after the
conflict. Simplified documents were used for the procurement of goods, works and services. All
documents were translated by the Bank into the local language(s). Higher thresholds for local
procurement were approved in Washington, thus fomenting the resurgence of local industry. An
international procurement advisor was recruited by the Bank, to be resident in BiH, allowing
better understanding of the particular circumstances in which Projects had to operate and resolve
procurement issues expeditiously;
(c) the local NGO and private sector community should be involved as much as possible in the
implementation of the programs;
(d) newly designed local structures, such as the ETFs and PIUs, should provided with technical
- 15-



assistance which was knowledgeable and experienced with the project's design and
imnplementation in other countries in the ECA region;
(e) study tours to other countries in the Region and the United States should provided a better
understanding for local counterparts of the alternatives available to them. These study tours also
provided opportunities for members of previously warring factions to meet outside BiH, exchange
ideas and start to develop trust amongst themselves;
(f) there was continuous dialogue between the Bank and the local structures to build trust and
transparency, and to ensure efficient project implementation;
(g) the need for coordination with other donors was kept simple, since each donor could
participate in the project according to their particular interests but within the overall framework;
(h) the PIUs were made clearly accountable for their activities by the supervising government
units.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's ICR attached as Annex 9 - (at the end of Annex 7).
(b) Cofinanciers:
Government of Holland - reviewed the Draft ICR and had no additional comments.
Government of Sweden - reviewed the Draft ICR and had no additional comments.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
99~.....  ....  .
Labor Market Information: to re-establish,    A comprehensive national/local Labor Market same
upgrade, broaden and automate the labor   Information Base, including job seeker and
market information system operated by  job vacancy data has been completed and
Municipal Employment Services.        installed.
Counseling and Job Finding: to develop  Job and Trauma counseling services  same
refined counseling and job finding services  developed and provided to 2,643 demobilized
and to provide funds to the local service  soldiers in the Federation and 681 in
providers who will deliver the counseling  Republika Srpska.
services to demobilized soldiers who are
unemployed.
Retraining Services: to retrain about 32,000  Retraining has been provided to 13,568  Retraining has been provided to 14,712
demobilized soldiers, and refugees and  demobilized soldiers and other target  demobilized soldiers and other target
displaced persons who are unemployed to   populations in the Federation and 3,938 in   populatons in the Federation and 5,198 in
help them re-enter productive employment.  the Republika Srpska.            the Republika Srpska.
Institutional Training Contracts have reached Institutional Training Contracts have reached
865 unemployed in the Federation and 285 in 865 unemployed in the Federation and 368 in
the Republika Srpska.                 the Republika Srpska.
Management Assistance: to provide overall  USDOL contract was successfully executed  same
project management and procurement    and completed in 1998.
services to the project, including processing,
approving and monitoring implementation of
all counseling and retraining services
contracts and to provide formal liaison with
the World bank on procurement and
program/fiscal reporting maters.
Output Indicators:
..... . .... g1~                                       ZK:9' `~
Labor Market Information Data Base to be                                    Completed, installed and operating as of
re-established, upgraded and broadened.                                     December 1999.
Develop Counseling and job-finding services                                 Job and trauma counseling services
and contract for delivery of these services.                                delivered to 2,643 demobilized soldiers in the
Federation and 1,066 in RS.
Provide demand-driven education and                                         Retraining has been provided to 14,712
retraining services to about 32,000                                         demobilized soldiers and other target
demobilized soldiers.                                                       populations in the Federation and 5,198 in
the Republika Srpska.
Institutional Training Contracts have reached
865 unemployed in the Federation and 368 in
the Republika Srpska.
Management Assistance to establish two                                      PCUs established, staff hired and trained
Entity PCUs, staff them and train them.                                     successfully
End of project
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million e uivalent)
:                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- K
.. ,   t Pr je't .o~                       ' copoen  USj ntO ,U,S$  WI'~n j  '    ,- -" ':
Labor Market Information Data Base                      1.50            1.37        91.33
Counselilig and Job-Finding Services                    1.78            0.59        33.14
Education and Retraining Services                      16.07            6.61        41.13
Employment and Training Foundation Management           0.65            0.61        93.84
Total Baseline Cost                                    20.00            9.18
Total Project Costs               20.00            9.18
Total Financing Required                20.00           9.18
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0 .00)      (0 .00)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                      1.70         0.00         0.00          0.10          1.80
(1.70)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.70)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.10          0.40         0.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.10)        (0.00)        (0.10)
4. Counseling and            0.00          0.00         5.70         12.00         17.70
Training Contracts
(0.00)       (0.00)       (5.70)        (0.00)        (5.70)
Oper. Expenditures           0.00                       0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         0           (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      1.70         0.00          5.80         12.50        20.00
(1.70)       (0.00)       (5.80)        (0.00)        (7.50)
- 18 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                          0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                          1.05            0.40           0.00            0.00            1.45
(1.05)         (0.35)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (1.40)
3. Services                       0.38            0.00           0.34            0.00            0.72
(0.38)         (0.00)          (0.12)         (0.00)          (0.50)
4. Counseling and                 0.00            0.00           6.61            0.00            6.61
Training Contracts
(0.00)         (0.00)          (5.30)         (0.00)          (5.30)
Oper. Expenditures                0.00            0.00           0.40            0.00           0.40
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.30)         (0.00)          (0.30)
Total                          1.43            0.40           7.35            0.00           9.18
(1.43)         (0.35)          (5.72)         (0.00)          (7.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
I includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
l                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal|
Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Labor Market Information   1.48                 0.20       1.37                 0.00     92.6    0.0    0.0
Data Base
Counseling and             0.56                 1.22       0.53                 0.27     94.6    0.0    22.1
Job-Finding Services
Education and Retraining   5.11                10.96       5.30                 1.31     103.7   0.0    12.0
Services
PIU                        0.35                 0.30       0.30                 0.10     85.7    0.0    33.3
- 19 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A.
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance
_       L       a       b 5~(.g 2L kcrxit.I M~                 aing
Implemntation      Development
Month/ear             Count       ~      nialty                  Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation                                                   S                  S
0215-16/1996            3     1 Task Manager and Senior
Employment and Training
Specialist, I Social Sector
Operations Officer, I
Operations Officer
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/30-                  3     1 Task Manager and Senior            S                 S
05/03/1996                    Employment and Training
Specialist, I Social Sector
Operations Officer, I
Operations Officer
06/10-14/1996          11     I Task Manager and Senior            S                 S
Employment and Training
Specialist, I Social Sector
Operations Officer, I
Operations Officer, I
Economist, 2 Lawyers, I
Procurement Spec., I Country
Officer, I Disbursement
Officer, 2 Consultants
Supervision
09/5-9/1996              4   Task Manager and Senior               S                 S
Employment and Training
Specialist, 1 Social Sector
Operations Officer, I
Human Resources Project
Officer, I Team Assistant
09/23-27/1996            3    1 Task Manager and Social            S                 S
Sector Operations Officer, I
Human Resources Operations
Officer, I Team Assistant
12/9-13/1996            3    1 Task Manager and Social            S                  S
Sector Operations Officer, I
Human Resources Operations
Officer, I Team Assistant
04/14-18/1997            4    1 Task Manager and Social            S                 S
Sector Operations Officer, I
Senior Employment and
Training Specialist, I Human
Resources Project Officer, I
Team Assistant
- 21 -



Stg ofi0 0 Project Cycle   00 00   ;       D:  tNo. of Pers6ns and Specialty                 Performance
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS et0                       Rating~
Implementton        Development
Month/Year             Count               Specialty                Progress           Objective
08/1 1-15/1997           4    1 Task Manager and Social             S                   S
Sector Operations Officer, 1
Senior Employment and
Training Specialist, I Human
Resources Project Officer, I
Team Assistant
02/18-25/1998            4    1 Task Manager and Social             S                   S
Sector Operations Officer, I
Senior Technical Educator, I
Human Resources Project
Officer, I Team Assistant
06/1998                  3    1 Task Manager and Social             S                   S
Sector Operations Officer, I
Human Resources Project
Officer, I Team Assistant
02/05/1999               2    1 Task Manager and Social             S                   S
Sector Operations Officer, I
Human Resources Project
Officer
01/26/1999               2    1 Task Manager and Social             S                   S
Sector Operations Officer, I
Human Resources Project
Officer
ICR
02/3-7/2000              2     1 Task Manger and Social              S                  S
Sector Operations Officer, I
Operations Analyst
(b) Staff:
Sa   o fproject Cc                            Actual/.aest Estimate
______________________     N o. Stafw  eeks                 US $000
Identification/Preparation                 7.9                       38,500
Appraisal/Negotiation                     12.4                       37,100
Supervision                               63.8                      163,200
ICR                                        9.0                       10,400
Total                                     84.1                      249,200
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies
E Sector Policies                             OH  *SUOM  ON  ONA
X Physical                                    OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Financial
Z Institutional Development                   0 H  O SUO M  O N  O NA
0 Environmental
Social
O Poverty Reduction                   O H  O SU * M  0 N  O NA
O Gender
O Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development
O Public sector management
O Other (Please specify)
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
E Lending                                             OHS*S OU OHU
O Supervision                                         O HS *S   OU  OHU
[  Overall                                            O HSIS        O u   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  u  O HU
O  Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS   0 u   O HU
LO Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Project Documents:
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project; Technical Annex; Report
Number T-6947-BiH; June 28, 1996
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project; Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President; Report Number P-6947-BiH; June 28, 1996
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project; Development Credit
Agreement (Cr. 2906-BOS); July 31, 1996
World Bank Identification, Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiations Aide Memoires: February 1996, April
1996, May 1996, June 1996
Operating Policy Manual: February 1997
Manuals for on the Job Training
Manuals for Counseling and Retraining
Charter of the Employment and Training Foundation
Annual PIU Reports on Project Activities as of: December 31 1997, December 31, 1998
Supervision Documents:
World Bank Project Status Reports, Supervision Mission Aide Memoires: September 1996, December
1996, April 1997, August 1997, February 1998 and letter to Mr. Sulejman Garib dated January 26, 1999
Audit Report on the Project Financial Statements for the year 1998;
PriceWaterhouseCoopers
Project Financial Statements and Independent Auditor's Report for the year 1997;
Deloitte & Touche
- 25 -



ANNEX 8. Contribution of Main Cofinanciers to the Project
Cofinancier            Estimated Contribution (US$million)   Main areas of Activities
Dutch Government                 1.0                       Retraining and Employment
Counseling
services in the Federation
Dutch Government                 0.375                       Retraining services in the
Federation
Swedish Government               0.3                       Education an retraining services in
Western RS, consulting services
- 26 -



ANNEX 9. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2906 BOS)
APPENDIX B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Prepared by the
Project Implementation Units
of the Employment and Training Foundations
of Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Srpska
- 27 -



FINAL REPORT
ON IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT
OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
WORLD BANK CREDIT No. 2906 BOS, Dutch Trust Fund Grant No. TF 024776,
Swedish Fund Grant No. TF 020434, Dutch Trust Fund Grant No. TF 021196
PART I - INTRODUCTION
A. Background
After more than four years of warfare, the newly formed government of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH)
was confronted with the imposing need to find a means to employ large number of demobilized
soldiers, dislocated civilians, and an unknown number of refugees who wished to return to their
communities. Yet, because the Bosnian conflict destroyed a significant proportion of the former
infrastructure and commerce in Bosnia, as well as a large percentage of family housing, reintegration
would be incremental. Only as old businesses reemerged or new ones were started could labor be
re-employed. However, it was conceived that economic reintegration could be facilitated and hastened
through a program that provided encouragement and assistance to emerging enterprises as well to the
swelling numbers of unemployed being fed by the rapid demobilization of armed forces.
Demobilization
The Dayton Peace Accords called for a balanced reduction of forces in the three competing armies of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. At the end of the war, the total number of men and women enlisted in these armies to be
demobilized as a result of this peace agreement amounted to 425,000. Of these, 245,000 would be demobilized in
the Federation of Bosnia & Herzegovina and 180,000 in Republika Srpska. In the Federation of Bosnia &
Herzegovina 180,000 were demobilized from the Army of the Republic of Bosnia & Herzegovina and 65,000
from the Bosnia Croat Army. Note: almost 50% of all soldiers from both political entities were demobilized at
the start of project implementation. This massive demobilization raised widespread concern that a large injection
of former soldiers into the society could threaten peace and recovery unless there was a means to provide them
with employment.
Dislocated Workers and Refugees
At the end of the war, it was estimated that there were 1,250,000 refugees living abroad of whom an unknown
percentage was expected to return. In addition, a huge proportion of the 900,000 workers who constituted the
pre-war Bosnian labor market was unemployed after the war. Many workers who had skills were essentially
economically dislocated because their former place of employment either no longer existed or was unable to
function.
The dearth of employment opportunity inherent in a shattered, post-war economy presented a formidable hurdle
in employing such large numbers of demobilized soldiers, refugees and dislocated workers. Little of the pre-war
Yugoslavian economy characterized by numerous public enterprises that employed large numbers of workers
- 28 -



remained. But the problem was further compounded by inadequacies in the surviving labor force. A significant
proportion of the former soldiers had little education or suitable work skills. Also, there were large numbers who
suffered war-related disabilities that prevented them from returning to their former occupations and there were
war widows lacking appropriate work experiences who had to earn income in order to maintain families. (
Technical Annex, Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project, Technical
Report No. T-6947-BIH, World Bank, June 28, 1996, page 1).
Current Circumstances
It was anticipated that the emerging Bosnian economy that would evolve would be based on smaller, highly
competitive enterprises that would require a new mix of skills in their human resources. While there has been
economic development during the three years since the signing of the Dayton Accord, it has not been followed by
a significant infusion of investments necessary to create the scale of economic growth needed to meet these
employment demands. Thus, in a large way, severe unemployment conditions prevail.
B. Strategy and Response by the World Bank
There are two general conditions that confound social reintegration and economic development in BH. Had there
never been a conflict, BH would nevertheless be faced with the economic travails and challenges experienced by
its Central European neighbors, i.e., dislocation created by the transition to an open market economy. The
proposition of four years of warfare in which the infrastructure, predominant industries and a significant amount
of the country's family housing were destroyed makes Bosnia's transition all the more desperate and difficult.
The Rationale
The rationale for assisting with the demobilization and reintegration of former servicemen and servicewomen
under these circumstances has three main elements:
(1) The orderly demobilization and economic reintegration of soldiers is necessary for the social and political
stability which is itself a prerequisite for successful reconstruction and recovery.
(2) Assistance is essential to restoring the productivity of former soldiers, returning refugees, war widows, the
disabled and others who face difficulty in finding employment in post-war reconstruction and recovery where
opportunities are meager and the labor exchange that provides employment information to the public is chaotic.
(3) An investment made to optimize reintegration of these populations is a cost-effective alternative to the
long-term dependence upon social assistance and humanitarian assistance that would otherwise result and
represent a greater burden to both the BH Government and the international community.
A Re-application ofEffective Practices
The World Bank has funded other projects that address economic reintegration needs of ex-combatants in Gaza
and the West Bank, Nicaragua, Zimbabwe, Uganda and other post-war environments. It also has experience in
the Central European region in assisting in the successful integration of displaced workers in Albania, FYR
Macedonia, Hungary, Poland, and other transition economies. Much of the following project design is based on
the successful interventions witnessed in these earlier experiences, in particular in the transition economies of
Central Europe.
C. The Demobilization and Reintegration Project
Proiect Objective and Components
The overall objective of the Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project in Bosnia & Herzegovina has
been:
- 29 -



"...to assist the economic reintegration of displaced workers into the civilian workforce
in order to reduce the burden on families, decrease dependency on eventual social
assistance, and increase economic productivity. The primary target group is demobilized
soldiers. Secondary target groups include refugees, war victims and the disabled,
widows, and the general unemployed". (Technical Annex Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project, Report No. T-6947-BIH, June 28,
1996, page 3).
Though not stated, a condition implicit in this goal is that demobilized soldiers and members of other populations
targeted for assistance would find employment sooner than those who might not be served by the project would.
In other words, a key thrust of the project has been to facilitate employment conditions for special populations
and to quickly provide employers with the skills needed in their post-war enterprises.
The four project components were:
(1) Development of an Automated Labor Market Information Data Base.
Develop a computerized labor market information system that will match the skills of individual unemployed
workers with the specific hiring needs of enterprises that are emerging, restarting or expanding. The project will
finance the purchase of computers, software development and limited technical assistance and training required to
provide 191 Municipal employment services offices with an interactive labor market information database.
(2) Counseling and Job-Finding Services.
Finance limited technical assistance to develop counseling and job-finding services and sub-project contracts for
providers of counseling and job-finding services targeted principally to demobilized soldiers. Sub-projects for the
delivery through this component will be largely provided through contracts with non-govemment organizations
(NGOs) and with Municipal employment services.
(3) Education and Retraining Services.
Finance sub-project contracts for "demand driven" education and retraining services primarily to demobilized
soldiers. These contractual services may include the provision of education and training resources to:
(a) Enterprises which agree to provide on-the-job-training services to the unemployed and,
(b) Education and training institutions which provide short-term retraining programs. Services will be "demand
driven," that is; enterprises and institutional training institutions must provide assurance that there is
employment demand for the number of people to be trained in the occupations for which they are to receive
training.
Contracts will include pre-negotiated levels of job placement to occur at the end of training and will contain
financial incentives and disincentives to encourage job placement targets.
(4) Management Assistance.
Finance technical assistance and goods to develop and maintain two small Project Implementation Units (PIUs),
one in the FBH and one in the RS. These will consist of approximately 3-5 staff each, plus extension agents who
will promote, oversee and monitor the counseling and training contracts in the cantons of the Federation and
regions of the RS. Consultant services to provide technical assistance in developing management capacity,
uniform contracting procedures that uphold IDA standards and advice and assistance in developing procurement
documents to solicit hardware and software for the labor market system will also be funded under this
component.
D. Description of the Project
- 30 -



As indicated, the focus of the project was to facilitate the reintegration of demobilized soldiers and other
dislocated workers into the emerging Bosnian economy as quickly as possible. This was addressed through an
array of services procured through sub-project contracts. Below a description of the degree to which the project
met each of its four objectives is provided.
Component 1.- Develop a Computerized Labor Market Information
Hardware Procurement.
The LMI project has two parts: (1) the procurement of hardware and (2) the development of software. Hardware
has been procured for the system and installed in 191 employment offices throughout the RS and the FBH. Initial
training in the use of the hardware and standard office software was also provided.
Software-Systems Development.
Contractor services was also procured to develop the LMI software for the system. There were three phases in
this development:
Phase I was concemed with identifying the statistical requirements needed for:
(a) registering unemployed peopled who seek employment assistance through employment institute offices;
(b) collecting information from employers who seek job applicants registered with the Employment Institutes;
and
(c) labor market information that can be derived through these labor exchange transactions.
Phase II was largely concemed with coding the data requirements identified in Phase I and then pilot testing the
software developed.
In Phase III, software was installed in all local, regional, and central offices and training provided to appropriate
staff in the use of the software.
Component 2: Develop Counseling and Job-Finding Services
This component provided refined employment counseling and job search assistance to unemployed workers.
However, there was also an effort to develop trauma referral services for unemployed demobilized soldiers,
refugees and members of other populations who manifested symptoms of post-traumatic stress. It was reasoned
that if individuals suffered from this war-related condition, they may be incapacitated in conducting an effective
search for employment or, if successful in doing so, less able to keep such employment. The effort made to
institute this practice in FBH made little headway largely because sufficient counseling services were not
available in the entity. However, such services were instituted in the RS were approximately 385 individuals
received post-traumatic stress counseling.
In three waves of contract solicitations made by the FBH PIU, 22 contracts were procured to provide 2,643
unemployed individuals with employment counseling and job search assistance. In the RS, 14 contracts were
developed to serve 681 clients. From these 36 contracts, 908 or about 27% of those served found employment
before completion of the contracts. Clients participating in these counseling services learned how to identify their
relevant work experiences and skills and concisely describe these in a resume. They also learned effective ways
to identify potential employment opportunity, make application and seek interviews as well as conduct
impressionable interviews. It is a fair assumption to expect that more of those who received this counseling will
subsequently find employment as a result of the information and job finding skills they obtained through this
component.
Component 3: Education and Retraining Services
- 31 -



The purpose of this component was to train displaced workers as well as those who lack prior work experience
and thus required re-training for emerging employment opportunities. In both cases, the emphasis was made to
serve demobilized soldiers and assist them in finding productive employment. Vendors providing these services
were drawn from local private and public enterprises and, to a lessor extent, educational institutions.
On-the-Job Training.
Contracts that were developed with enterprises to provide on-the-job training or retraining had to commit to
hiring 80 percent of the people they trained. In the FBH, 309 contracts were procured to train 13,582 clients. In
the RS, 190 contracts were developed with enterprises to train 5,198 clients. As a result of both contracts, it is
reported that 15,452 clients or 82 percent of those who received training were employed through this intervention.
Institutional Training.
Educational institutions that provided training, usually did so on a more formal basis in classrooms or in
environments that mirrored actual work settings. Institutions obtaining these contracts were committed to find
employment for 60 percent of those they trained.  Principally because of this requirement, early in
implementation, it was difficult to find institutions willing to enter into a contract.  Furthermore, many
institutions were simply unable to provide services because of damage to their facilities incurred during the war.
Eventually, 25 contracts were procured in the FBH to train 865 people. Of these slightly more than 86 percent
were employed. In the RS, 14 contracts were developed to train 368 clients of whom 253 or almost 70 percent
were employed.  This performance which significantly exceeded contract requirements was largely achieved
because institutions willing to undertake a contract also developed strong relationships with local enterprises and
industries that provided assurance of their need for workers in occupations in which the institutions provided
training.
Component 4: Management Assistance
Technical Assistance.
The International Labor Affairs Bureau of the United States Department of Labor (USDOL) was selected to
provide technical Assistance to the project.  Accordingly, technical assistance was provided in the following
areas:
(1) Assisted in the development of institutional structures for the PlUs in the FBH and the RS. Assistance was
provided in developing procedures and controls necessary to ensure that planned services met emerging needs
within the economy and labor market and that contracts were procured according to the requirements established
by IDA standards. Administrative Operations Manuals were developed for both PIUs to provide uniform
guidance in cost controls, personnel management and monitoring procedures.
(2) Counseling practices and approaches gained from successful interventions made with veterans in the United
States were adapted to the realities and cultures of Bosnia. Manuals were developed to assist employment
institute practitioners and NGOs in conducting proactive job development and identify and make appropriate
referrals for clients who may suffer from post traumatic stress syndrome. A third manual was developed to help
job seekers make organized and effective searches for employment, develop resumes that reflected their skills and
suitability for work and prepare for job interviews. These manuals were translated, tested, refined and distributed
to the employment institutes and to counseling organizations that received contracts to provide services through
the PIUs. One of the three employment institutes published several thousand copies of the job search manual for
distribution to clients seeking employment through their system.
(3) A working group was organized to identify specifications for the LMI data system and generally provide
oversight in its development. This group is comprised of representatives from the three employment institutes
(there are three Employment Institutes in Bosnia representing Serb interests in Republika Srpska, Croat interests
- 32 -



in West Mostar and largely three of the ten cantons in FBH, and Bosniak interests in seven of the ten cantons in
FBH) and PIU representatives from both political entities. The LMI development, begun in October 1996 was
completed in December 1999. Costs for this effort were born by IDA credit.
Development of the Project Management Units.
Each PIU operates under the authority of an Employment and Training Foundation (ETF) of which there are two,
one in each political entity. The ETFs were established as autonomous, non-profit agencies by the respective
governments of RS and FBH. Each ETF has a board of trustees comprised of representatives from government
organizations such as the Ministries of Finance, Defense, Education, Refugees and Welfare, Soldiers' Care and
the respective Employment Institutes. In addition, representatives from the Chamber of Commerce and union
organizations are also members on these boards. The boards, which meet quarterly, are responsible for approving
regulations, policies, procedures, and annual budgets for the ETFs. They also approve contractual decisions and
proposals made by the PIU directors.
In addition to the ETF boards, the PIUs initiated the organization of Cantonal and Regional Steering Committees
with which they regularly communicate regarding decisions about the appropriateness of training and counseling
contracts that propose activities in their vicinities. Each contract that elects to provide services in a canton or
region should be reviewed by the respective steering committee before a funding decision is made by the PIU and
the ETF Board of Trustees. While the Steering Committee lacks the power to veto a contract proposal, it does
provide valuable information about the appropriateness of a contract proposal in meeting the perceived
employment needs of the region or canton.
Collectively, all of these administrative systems, the ETF Board, the PIU and the Steering Committee, provide
essential information in the contract procurement process. The information provided to the PRUs through this
mixed representation tends to ensure that contractual decisions are balanced. For example, in funding training
and counseling services, the PIUs acquire information that in addition to being relevant to a national scope also
address the more immediate needs of Municipalities and smaller entities within each canton in the FBH and
regions in the RS.
Allocation of Counseling and Re-Training Resources within the Political Entities.
Before counseling and training services could be procured, the PIUs had to develop a procedure for distributing
their resources in a way that would equitably serve the mix of demobilized soldiers in all political sectors of the
country, i.e., cantons and regions. Although the PIUs adopted different strategies, both procedures provided a
means that ensured that given percentages of demobilized soldiers who were reported to reside in the various
cantons and regions of the FBH and RS respectively, received proportionate shares of the resources. For
example, if 20 percent of the unemployed demobilized soldiers in the RS reside in a particular region, a like
percentage of the PIU's resources to provide training and employment counseling was targeted to that region. In
the FBH, this allocation formula ensured that Cantonal populations of demobilized soldiers received
proportionate shares of the PIU's resources regardless whether they served in the Army of the Republic of
Bosnia-Herzegovina or the Bosnia Croat Army.
In the FBH, resources were allocated based on the number of soldiers that were demobilized in various cantons.
Both the numbers of HVO and Bosniak veterans residing in each canton were accounted for. The graph provided
in Table II of the Appendix illustrates how these allocations were made in the FBH viz a viz the cantonal
distribution of demobilized soldiers. The graph also reflects the employment that has been achieved in these
vicinities as a result of the training and counseling services provided. It should be noted that there is some slight
variance shown in certain cantons between the allocation and the percentage of demobilized soldiers residing in
those cantons. At the outset of the project, the PIU's resource allocations were made to exactly match the
proportions of demobilized soldiers in the ten cantons of FBH. However, by the second year and following three
- 33 -



series of contract solicitations, it was realized that the economic activity in some cantons was greater than in
others. In fact, some cantons showed little interest in applying for funding to train demobilized soldiers because
enterprises perceived that the demand for their services or manufactured goods was insufficient to increase their
human resource levels. Thus, following the third and final solicitation, a relatively small percentage of resources
were shifted from cantons that indicated little or no demand for training resources to those that did. This
reallocation made only small deviations between the percentage of apportioned PIU resources compared to the
reported percentage of resident demobilized soldiers in the ten cantons of the FBH.
In the Republika Srpska, resources were allocated based on the number of unemployed soldiers that were
demobilized and registered by the Employment Institute Affiliations in the six regions of RS. The graph in the
Appendix illustrates how these allocations were made in the RS viz a viz the regional distribution of demobilized
soldiers. The graph also reflects the employment that has been achieved in these regions as a result of the
training and counseling services provided. At the outset of the project, the allocation of project resources was
made to match exactly the proportions of demobilized soldiers in the regions of RS. However, as project reached
to its end certain deviation between the allocation and the percentage of demobilized soldiers residing in these
regions shown in some regions. This deviation is caused by different level of economic activity in these regions as
well as by the fact that the Swedish Grant funds might be used in only one region /Prijedorl and very small part
of other /Banja Luka/. Besides, in the second year of project implementation the RS PIU had to make reallocation
of funds between the project's categories that further enlarged the variance between trend lines reflecting
apportioned resources and demobilized soldiers reported in the regions of the RS.
/See Attach. 1 - Allocation by Cantons in FBH and Attach. 2 - Allocation by Regions in RS/
E. Project Costs and Financing Plan
Originally, the cost estimate for the Demobilization and Reintegration Project to train and employ approximately
35,000 was US $20 million. However, at the time of project implementation, somewhat less than US $7.5
million was available in the form of IDA credit.
Approximately midway through implementation, an additional $1,000,000 became available through the Dutch
Trust Fund. However, these funds were limited for investment in the FBH. Later, near the end of project
implementation, $300,000 in Swedish Trust Funds became available to support activities in the RS and new
Dutch Grant for the FBH in the amount of $375,000. The second Dutch Grant is still in implementation with the
closing date as of March 31, 2000. Figures related to this fund could be slightly changed since it is still in
implementation.
- 34 -



(in US$)
1. IDA Credit (2906 BOS)            4,823,446     2,430,000     7,253,446        81.24%
2. Dutch Grant (TF 024776)          1,000,000            -       1,000,000       11.20%
3. Swedish Grant                           -        300,000       300,000         3.36%
(TF 020434)
4. Dutch Grant (TF 021196)            375,000             -       375,000         4.20%
Total                    6,198,446     2,730,000      8,928,446     100.00%
- 35 -



Disbursement
Two-thirds of the project resources were allocated to the FBH and one third to RS. Seventy five percent of all
resources were invested in direct services to unemployed clients in the form of employment counseling and
education and retraining services. Another seventeen percent of the resources were invested in the development of
a labor market system that would provide labor exchange services to unemployed clients. Again, this was an
investment that would eventually result in direct services to clients. Only eight percent of the resources were used
for project management and technical assistance purposes. Disbursement by project components and political
entities is shown in the table bellow:
(in US$)
LMIS                         1,413,029      924,149      65.40%      488,880       34.60%
Counsel. & Job Finding        590,729       430,014      72.79%       160,715      27.21%
Education and Training       6,011,559    4,292,957      71.41%     1,718,602      28.59%
- of which TF                   332,450      332,450
PIU                           761,501       496,483      65.20%      265,018       34.80%
- of which TF                   42,550        42,550
Total                        8,776,818    6,143,603     70.00%      2,633,215     30.00%
Disbursement by categories is shown in the following table:
(in US$)
LMIS                        1,413,029      924,149      65.40%       488,880      34.60%
Counsel. & Job Finding        590,729      430,014      72.79%       160,715      27.21%
Education and Training      6,011,559    4,292,957      71.41%     1,718,602      28.59%
- of which TF                  332,450      332,450
PIU                           761,501      496,483      65.20%       265,018      34.80%
- of which TF                   42,550       42,550
- 36 -



Total                        8,776,818     6,143,603      70.00%      2,633,215     30.00%
Regarding procurement methods, the majority of services were procured through Direct Contracting:
(in US$ mill. equivalent)
Goods                          1.07           0.34                                      1.41
Training and                                                  6.60                      6.60
Counseling
Consultant Services                                           0.48                      0.48
Oper. Expenditures                                            0.28                      0.28
Total                          1.07           0.34            7.36                      8.77
Together, the two PIUs of the project trained over twenty-three thousand people of whom most were demobilized
soldiers. It is reported that the majority (74%) of those who received training and employment counseling was
employed. The development of the Labor Market Information project, although somewhat protracted because of
procurement difficulties has nevertheless exceeded most reasonable expectations. Also, employment-counseling
services, which were not practiced in pre-war Yugoslavia, proved to have in impact. Given the scope of the
project's goal, the complexity of its components and the expediency with which implementation had to occur,
especially considering the difficult conditions and circumstances prevalent in post-war Bosnia in 1996, the project
was successful.
It is noteworthy that implementation was achieved at a lower cost than originally envisioned in the Terms of
Reference established for this project. As mentioned in the discussion of the financial plan, it was originally
anticipated that the project would require a funding base of $20,000,000 US to serve 35,000 individuals. In other
words, totally, $571 would be expended for each person served by the project and also fund technical assistance
and management oversight. Because of the shortfall in funding, only $8,401,818, was available to fund the
project. However, over 23,000 individuals were served through this amount - a ratio of $360 per individual
served. Thus, based on the original estimate and the results achieved, people were trained and employed through
the project at a cost almost one-third less than anticipated. Such an increase in cost effectiveness resulted in
8,000 more being trained than could have been anticipated given original cost estimates. Furthermore, while such
accomplishments were made in training and counseling other components of the project met their objectives as
well.
II.
- 37 -



A. Assessment of the Project
Suitability of Project Objectives
Labor Market Information System.
It should be noted, that during the onset of development, there was concern that each employment institute
representing Croat, Serb and Bosniak interests would be unable to reach consensus on uniformity in system
design. It was feared that if the three employment institutes insisted on developing separate designs that met their
unique, perceived needs there would be no capacity for them to exchange common data and thus provide
aggregate employment data from all areas of the country.
Fortunately, these fears were never realized and the three interests elected to pursue developing a single system
that each will use independently. The system is based on uniform technical criteria because this was the more
cost effective and expedient approach. As a result, all three interests will have the capacity to exchange the same
labor exchange information and employment statistics representative of all areas of the country. But, it should be
cautioned that because of political divisiveness in the country, it is doubtful that there will be internal consensus
to do this in the near future. This capacity to collect and consolidate employment data from the three employment
institutes using this system may have to be initiated through requests from international interests.
Employment Counseling.
As mentioned, the practice of providing unemployed people with assistance in writing resumes, developing job
search strategies and preparing them for job interviews was generally unknown in pre-war Yugoslavia. Thus,
there was a reasonable amount of skepticism that this effort could be successful especially given the few
employment opportunities available in the shattered post-war economy. However, over three thousand three
hundred unemployed people received assistance through this component in the two entities of whom 908 found
jobs. However, there is a statistical inefficiency inherent in measuring the effectiveness of this particular
component only through early job placements. Individuals acquiring job-seeking skills through these counseling
programs are served by this knowledge long after they receive assistance in this respect. Thus, it may be
assumed that the final impact made by this component will to some degree be larger than reported.
Performance Data.
*   36 Contracts were procured having total contract value of $590,729 (22 contracts in FBH; 14 in RS)
*   3,324 Clients received services (2,643 in FBH; 681 in RS)
*   908 were employed (674 in FBH; 234 in RS).
Education and Re-training Services.
The utilization of resources to train demobilized soldiers and other populations for employment was based on the
notion that such training would only occur on a "demand driven" basis. That is, enterprises willing to undertake
a contract to provide training for people in particular occupations had to verify that they had reasonable
expectations for increasing their human resources in these occupations. Likewise, educational agencies and other
like institutions that undertook training contracts in particular occupations had to provide rationale that demand
for these occupations existed locally. While the latter circumstance was less frequent than the former, it
nevertheless, proved to be effective.
Public solicitations made to procure training contracts through local enterprises occurred initially in the FBH
within a few months after the project was started. The response to this solicitation was overwhelming. From the
solicitation, 141 contracts were made to train 6,524 participants most of who were demobilized soldiers. Because
the contracts for all solicitations had the flexibility to support minor building repairs and provide depreciation
- 38 -



allowances for equipment that was used by participants in their training, the contract terms were especially
attractive to emerging enterprises. These contract provisions provided enterprises with the opportunity to verify
that workers they wished to hire had proven abilities and expertise. Furthermore, a proportion of the repairs to
damaged facilities that had to be made in order accommnodate new workers could be born by the contract. As a
result of these incentives, enterprises were able to provide services and increase production with appropriately
trained personnel earlier than would have otherwise been the case. Because of the benefits realized by enterprises
throughout the country, if adequate funding levels remained, the project in both political entities would probably
be able to continue training activities and employment at rates similar to those experienced heretofore assuming
some degree of growth in the Bosnian economy.
Performance Data - Institutional Training.
*   39 Contracts were procured having total contract value of $607,937 (25 contracts in FBH; 14 in RS)
*   1,233 Clients received services: (865 in FBH; 368 in RS)
*   1000 were employed: (747 in FBH; 253 in RS).
Performance Data - Retraining.
*   550 Contracts were procured having total contract value of $5,388,273 (360 contracts in FBH, out of which
51 in implementation; 190 in RS)
*   19,896 Clients received services (14,712 in FBH, out of which 1,130 under current contracts; 5,198 in RS)
*   16,378 were employed (10,866 employed in FBH and 926 to be employed under current contracts; 4,586
employed in RS).
B. Experience Gained during Project Implementation
1.  Consequences and Benefits of Urgent Implementation
In order to respond to the swelling numbers of former soldiers that were being demobilized in 1996, expediency in
implementing the project took a high priority. In June 1996, a contract was signed to obtain technical assistance
from the U.S. Department of Labor for the development of the PIU in FBH. Also, at this time, the ETF in FBH
held its first formal meeting in Sarajevo during which it appointed the Executive Director for the PIU. In July
1996, the RS also signed a contract to acquire the same technical assistance and an Executive Director for its
ETF was appointed shortly thereafter.
Staff had to be hired and trained for both the PIUs, and counseling materials, administrative procedures and
contract solicitations had to be developed as quickly as possible so that work could commence on each of the
project's components.  However, there were numerous logistical obstacles that impeded optimal project
mobilization like the initial lack of office space for the PIU in FBH, the inability to procure an armored vehicle
required to convey American technical assistance staff throughout the country and the absence of telephone
communicates between Banja Luka and Sarajevo and Pale and Sarajevo. One-by-one these logistical challenges
were overcome while work commenced to develop counseling materials and domestic and international technical
solicitations and have these appropriately translated into the native language.
In October 1996, the PIU FBH published its first solicitation. As indicated the huge response to this solicitation
exceeded expectations. Because the PIU was not sufficiently staffed, it was nearly overwhelmed in dealing with
the large number of requests it received to provide training. However, by January 1997, 141 contracts were
negotiated and signed to serve over 6,000 demobilized soldiers. Given the logistical challenges prevalent at this
time, it is difficult to imagine that project implementation of this scale could have occurred more rapidly.
While the PIU in the FBH initially implemented at the fastest pace possible; it did so at some cost. Lacking an
adequate number of extension agents as well as the experience to manage employment and training contracts, as a
- 39 -



result of its first solicitation for contracts, PIU staff were pressed to give each of the 141 contracts awarded the
attention that was required. With but one extension agent, the PIU was nearly over tasked to ensure that
contractors fully understood their commitments and that invoices were collected and paid on time. In hindsight,
had the PIU awarded a relatively small proportion of the 141 contracts, it would have had a greater opportunity
to learn more about monitoring contracts and thus increase its ability to manage vendor performance and spend
more time with the clients being trained. The PIU also would have learned more about the kind of data it required
from contractors to evaluate their performance as well as learn how to improve the content of subsequent
solicitations and self-assess their own performance in the contract process.
Learning perhaps from the experience of its counterpart in the FBH, the PIU in the RS, at first, proceeded at a
more deliberate pace. The PIU staff in the RS sought fewer contracts at first but entertained more innovation to
accommodate particular needs of clients as well as enterprises. On average too, the number of clients served by
their retraining contracts was significantly smaller and therefore, somewhat more manageable.
Both courses taken by these PIUs have their strengths and weaknesses. On one hand, in the FBH, an effort was
made to serve as many clients and enterprises as quickly as possible. But working at such a high rate of
implementation requires that the PIU focus energies on strict contract compliance and not immediately on
qualitative training where the individual needs of participants are given greater consideration. Initially, the
slower, more deliberate pace exercised in the RS allowed the PIU to carefully consider the needs of enterprises
that provide training as well as particular needs of those being trained. In their retraining contracts, the RS
reported a higher average employment rate in their retraining contracts (88 percent vs. 80 percent).  Quite
possibly, this higher performance was a consequence of a more cautious implementation in which smaller
contracts were funded.
It must be emphasized that both PIUs have enjoyed exceptional cooperation and comity with one another from the
beginning of project implementation. Throughout the project, both PIUs frequently met with one another in either
Banja Luka or Sarajevo to share ideas and lessons gained from their experiences in the implementation process.
They also traveled with one another to participate in study tours and training activities. Independently, they
organized their own mini-donor conference in Sarajevo in the summer of 1998 that was attended by
representatives of various embassies. Such a degree of cooperation, during this period, was unusual if not unique
in the country among other organizations that had a counterpart in the other political entity. As a result of this
free exchange and sharing of information, rather than compete with one another, both PIUs mutually benefited
from a cross-fertilization of ideas and lessons learned as they developed subsequent solicitations for retraining
and counseling services.
2.   Performance Increases through Contract Modification and Increased Experience
The initial counseling contracts provided few incentives for placement performance. Essentially, services were
being purchased and payments were made as clients were being provided services. The PIUs were concerned that
if incentives were not provided to encourage placement outcomes as a condition of the contract, that the quality of
the counseling and the assistance to help clients find jobs could not be assured. The counseling contracts were
changed by both PIUs whereby the contractor received 50 percent of the value of the contract when an agreed
number of clients were enrolled for counseling and job search assistance. The remaining 50 percent were not
awarded until a specified percentage of those being counseling found jobs. Typically, this meant that 25 percent
of the clients who received counseling had verified jobs before the contractor received the full value of the
contract.
These contractual terms proved to be very successful leading to most contractors meeting or exceeding the
placement goals. The procedure also stimulated contractors to utilize counseling materials that had been
- 40 -



developed by the U.S. Technical Assistance team as well as other materials and practices that might proved
effective in the Bosnian labor market. In hindsight, both PIUs regret not having imposed similar requirements on
their retraining contracts. During implementation, all retraining contracts withheld 10 percent of the contract
value until the contractor met the placement rate stipulated by the terms of the contract. However, because of the
high income tax and social benefit rates that employers are required to pay on worker salaries, in contracts where
large numbers of people were trained, the ten percent incentive was not always an adequate incentive.
Over the course of time, both PIUs increased their ability to negotiate contracts that in addition to increasing
performance also lowered per unit costs. A "per unit cost" is the average amount required to serve an unemployed
client through a sub-project contract either through retraining or counseling services. This rate is achieved by
simply dividing the contract amount by the number served through the contract. For example, for each of its three
solicitations, per unit costs for retraining contracts fell from $271, to $248, to $241. While these per unit costs
were declining in retraining contracts, performance remained consistent; on average it is reported that contracts in
the first two solicitations employed 80 percent of their clients, and thus far, a 78 percent placement rate is
reported for the last solicitation.  Similar efficiency is report for the contracts procured for employment
counseling in the FBH where per unit costs declined from $246, to $189, to $139 over the course of three
solicitations.
3. Employment by Gender through Employment Counseling and Retraining Programs
Because of contract modification and the growing expertise among counseling providers, a satisfactory level of
performance was achieved in this component despite the meager economy. However, in a brief examination of
the kind of placements achieved, it appears that retraining contracts were more successful in ensuring that a
proportionate number of women trained also received employment. Often, a larger proportion of the clients
served by counseling contracts were women but, as a group, women comprised a smaller percentage of the
employment obtained through this intervention. In the Bosnian labor market, where job opportunities are few,
women who participate in employment and counseling programs first compete for job vacancies with male
counterparts who may have more prior work experience and because of the culture, may be perceived to be more
in need of employment. On the other hand, when women participate in retraining programs conducted by
enterprises, a commitment has already be made to consider their abilities, performance and worth in the
workplace prior to a decision being made to hire them. It may prove worthwhile in future programs to couple
employment counseling with institutional training in order to promote greater hiring of women through this
intervention.
III. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF THE DONORS
A. The World Bank
The World Bank played a critical role in the initiation of the Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration
program by developing the project design, organizing donor conferences, and ensuring that project
implementation occurred at the earliest date possible. Throughout project implementation, the World Bank
provided leadership in helping the management units circumvent pitfalls in the transfer of credits through the
banking systems and in seeking additional funding for the project.
B. IDA Credit
IDA credits provided for the core of services that the project PIUs procured through sub-project employment
counseling, education and re-training contracts as well as both hardware and software component of LMIS.
- 41 -



Availability of these resources allowed the PIUs to quickly offer services to unemployed clients soon after project
mobilization.
C. Government of Netheilands (Dutch Trust Fund)
Dutch Trust Funds were limited to investment in the FBH. The first granted amount of $1,000,000 was used to
increase the level of retraining and employment counseling services in the FBH above the level that had originally
planned as well as for consultant services. The second Dutch Grant of $375,000 is aimed for retraining services.
Additionally, Dutch Trust Fund that was operated by FBH PCU in the amount of 0.4 US$ was also used for
purchasing of computer equipment, office supplies and vehicles for FBH PIU needs at the very beginning of the
Project.
D. Government of Sweden
Swedish Trust Funds have been pledged for investment in the RS. Ninety-four percent of this disbursement was
used to fund continuation of the education and retraining component in selected areas of the Western RS. *The
remaining six percent was available to fund consultant services. The Grant enabled support to reintegration of
returning population in two regions and additional financing during the extension of project duration.
- 42 -



TRAINING AND COUNSELING FUND
Allocation by Cantons
Cantons          Disbursed    Contracts in        Total Allocation  %   Solized
Funds implementationT                                 Canton %
Unsko-Sanski  1       $355,846        $46,820      $402,666        8.53%         10.35%
Bosansko-Posavski  2        $74,325            $0       $74,325         1.57%         4.22%
Tuzlansko-Zvomicki  3      $940,360        $40,200      $980,560       20.76%         21 .38%
Srednje-Bosanski  4      $882,689        $87,030      $969,719       20.53%         17.93%
Bosansko-Podrinjski  5     $108,034         $13,320     $121,354         2.57%         2.49%
Lasvansko-Vrbaski  6      $689,086        $33,105      $722,191       15.29%         15.13%
Neretvljanski  7     $568,790        $37,920      $606,710       12.85%         11.61%
Zapadnohercegovacki  8       $185,865        $10,480     $196,345         4.16%          3.84%
Sarajevo  9       $468,194        $37,475     $505,669        10.71%         10.52%
Zapadnobosanski 10       $117,332        $26,100      $143,432        3.04%          2.53%
Total        $4,390,521       $332,450    $4,722,971      100.00%       100.00%
Funded by the second DTF
25.00%                                  0% -
20.00% -
15.00%                   .
10.00%     j
5.00%                   -
0.00%
1        2        3        4         5        6        7         8        9        10
|tAliocaton   % -t -    UI- Demobilized Soldiers By Canton %
- 43 -



TRAINING AND COUNSELING FUND
Allocation by Regions
Allocation   Demobilized
Regions       Disbursed Funds     New Funds*            Total A            Soldiers By
Region %
Prijedor  1         $369,471                        $369,471    19.66%       12.63%
Banja Luka  2         $580,101                        $580,101    30.87%        28.97%
Doboj  3          $268,354                        $268,354    14.28%       16.74%
Bijeljina  4        $313,191                        $313,191    16.67%       21.06%
Srpsko Sarajevo  5         $207,439                        $207,439    11.04%       11.09%
Trebinje  6         $140,762                        $140,762      7.49%       9.51%
Total           $1,879,318                      $1,879,318   100.00%      100.00%
*Figures according to the signed contracts (October'99), 1US$=1.8 KM
35.00% -______
30.00%
25.00%
20.00%
15.00%
10.00%
5.00%
0.00%
1              2               3               4               5               6
-    - Allocation  %/0 - - fi ^ ^ Demobilized Soldiers By Region %
- 44 -



TRAINING AND COUNSELING FUND
Federation B&H           RS                Total
Type  of Services                                   -__________________
COUNSELING &JOB FINDING                             __
Number of Contracts                              22                  14                36
Value of Contracts                         $445,364            $160,715           $606,079
Number of Clients                             2,643                 681        _    3,324
Per Client Unit Cost                           $169                $236              $182
Clients Placed                                  674                 234               9081
Placement Rate                                 26%                 34%                27%
INSTITUTIONAL TRAINING
Number of Contracts                              25                  14                39
Value of Contracts                         $431,713            $176,224           $607,937
Number of Clients                               865                 368              1,233
Per Client Unit Cost                           $499                $479              $493
Clients Placed                                  747                 253              1,000
Placement Rate                                 86%                 69%                81%
ON THE JOB TRAINING*                                                       __   _      -
Number of Contracts                             360                 190               550
Value of Contracts                        $3,845,894          $1,542,379        $5,388,273
Number of Clients                            14,712               5,198             19,910
Per Client Unit Cost                           $261                $297              $271
Clients Placed                               11,7921              4,586             16,378
Placement Rate                                 80%                 88%            _   82%
TRAINING AND COUNSELING - TOTAL 
Number of Contracts                             407                 218               625
Value of Contracts                        $4,722,971          $1,879,318        $6,602,289
Number of Clients                            18,220               6,247             24,467
Per Client Unit Cost                           $259                $301_ $270
Clients Placed                                13,213              5,0731            18,286
Placement Rate                                 80% I               81%                75%J
* FBH data includes current 51 contracts financed by DTF in amount of $332,450 with 1,130
clients served and 926 expected to be employed  - 45 -






16,                TOage  Zagrreb  CROATIA  T. inkovci j 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~si  Novig
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dret oz            ne O  O> 
\ CROATIA   > <           ~~~~~~d-
<)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L o                        znia  * >  ar80rC\
l A d r i a t ; c S e a X , l 25k 50 7V5  uf                c
\ : ' + t~~~ To KILOMETER5 ~l
j BOSNIA AND  H E R ZE(:;~~~~~~~~
CROAM                              -S< <          W     <    
\ o 0 . . 00 0 1 Bl)LGARIA 4Je
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sn a5:0  



