Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6947-BI1
TECHNICAL ANNEX
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT
June 28, 1996
Human Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of April 30. 1996)
Currencv Unit: Bosnia and Herzegovina Dinars (BHD)
US$1.00=BHD149.25
US$0.67 ==BHD 100.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARBH         Army of the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina
BH           Bosnia and Herzegovina
CY           Calendar Year
DC           Direct Contracting
Federation    Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU           European Union
ETF          Employment and Training Foundation
FY           Fiscal Year of the World Bank
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GNP          Gross National Product
GPN          General Procurement Notice
HVO          Bosnian Croat Army
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
IS           International Shopping
LIB          Limited International Bidding
NS           National Shopping
OECD         Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
RS           Republika Srpska
SNCB         Simplified National Competitive Bidding
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
TA           Technical Assistance
TFBH         Trust Fund for Reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina
TOR          Terms of Reference
UNHCR        United Nations High Commission for Refugees
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
A.  BACKGROUND  ................................................   I
B.  IBRD/IDA  ASSISTANCE  STRATEGY   .................................   2
C.  DETAILED  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION   ................................   3
Project Costs and Financing Plan .....................................  5
Environmental Aspects   .................................   6
D. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION  ....                                                 .......... 6
Project Organization and Implementation   ...............................   6
Procurement .................................................. 8
Goods ...................................................... 9
Services .         ...................................................  10
Procurement Review  Committee ....................................   11
Procurement Implementation Capacity  ................................    11
Prior and Post Bank Review  of Procurement Documents   ....................   il
Disbursements . ...............................................  12
Project Audits, Accounting and Reporting ..............................   13
Supervision Plan   .............................................   14
TABLES
Table 1:  Project Cost Summary by Component  .............................   5
Table 2:  Project Cost Summary by Expenditure Category ....................... 5
Table 3:  Financing Plan by Component .................................. 6
Table 4:  Financing Plan by Expenditure Category ........................... 6
Table 5:  Procurement Arrangements .................................... 9
Table 6: Disbursement Categories and Schedule ............................. 12
This report is based on the findings of Bank missions which visited Bosnia-Herzegovina in April 1996. The missions
comprised Messrs./Ms. David Fretwell (Mission Leader, Senior Employment and Training Specialist. ECI/2HR Hub
Budapest), James Stevens (Operations Officer, ECI/2HR Hub Budapest), and Ilona Szernzo (Social Sectors Operations Officer,
Bosnia Resident Mission). The Project also draws on field work carried out in Bosnia and Herzegovina in February, 1996 by
Michael Mertaugh (Principal Education Economist, ECI/2HR) and Ian Whitman (OECD). Edith Santos (Staff Assistant.
ECI/2HR) provided assistance with text processing. Task Manager: David Fretwell (EC1/2HR); Division Chief: Ralph W.
Harbison (ECI/2HR); Actine Director for Bosnia and Herze2ovina: Christine Wallich, Director: Jean-Michel Severino
(EC2DR); Vice President: Johannes Linn (ECAVP); Peer Reviewers: Arvil Van Adams (AFTHR) and Sarah Forster (Bosnia
Resident Mission).



- ii -
APPENDICES
Appendix 1:   Estimated Cost ....................................... 15
Appendix 2:    Principles and Criteria for Use of Funds by the Employment and Training
Foundation    .........................................  18
Appendix 3:    Charter Establishing the Employment and Training Foundation  ...                                                          ..... 21
Appendix  4:             Project Procurement   ...................................   26
Appendix  5:             Summary  of Project Implementation  Relationships  .................  28
WAP IBRD No. 28082 ............................................... 29



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
A. Background
1.           Demobilization is one of the basic requirements of the Dayton Agreement. But there
is widespread concern that a large injection of former soldiers into the economy could threaten peace
and recovery unless ways are found to expedite their reintegration. Contacts with officials of the
Federation Ministry of Defense indicate that there will be approximately 245,000 military personnel
demobilized, 65,000 from the Bosnia Croat Army (HVO) and 180 from the Bosnian Army of the
Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina (ARHB). The average age is 20-35 and the population is almost
entirely male; 18% are officers and 85% are married. About 25% have some higher education, while
the majority of the remainder have completed secondary education. In the Republika Srpska (RS), a
total of 180,000 soldiers will be demobilized; 85% of these are married, 20% have a university
degree, and the remainder have secondary school or less. The age range is between 25 and 40 years.
2.           Demobilization is being carried out in phases according to the Dayton Agreement.
The initial phase emphasizes (i) demobilization of soldiers who had the opportunity to return to their
initial place of residence and employment, and (ii) those who were returning to complete their
education which was disrupted by the conflict. By April 30, 1996, 100,000 ARHB and 45,000 HVO
soldiers were demobilized, with the remainder expected by June 30. By April 14, 1996, a total of
150,000 RS soldiers were demobilized, with the remainder expected by June 15. These latter phases
will involve demobilization of soldiers who may have greater difficulty with reintegration because
they are not able to return to their homes and previous jobs.-' There is some evidence that a
significant portion of these may have lower general education and professional qualifications, or
qualifications that are not matched to the economic environment where they are now located. In
addition, some of these individuals have injuries which prevent them from resuming their former
occupation. If not given appropriate assistance in the near future, a large portion of demobilized
military will end up among the ranks of the long-term structurally unemployed who will require long-
term income support.
3.           In addition to the reintegration of demobilized soldiers, there are, according to the
latest statistical figures presented by the Government, an estimated 1,250,000 refugees who are
expected to return to BH. Like the demobilized soldiers, many may be unable to return to their
original home and place of work and will likely also join the ranks of the unemployed. In addition to
these, many of the 900,000 people employed in the civilian economy in 1991 are now unemployed
because they were displaced by the conflict, or due to the fact that their place of employment is
damaged and/or working at a reduced capacity.- Other smaller, but significant, groups of individuals
who may need assistance to return to work are the disabled and widows of soldiers killed in the
For example, about 30,000 of the 160,000 HVO Croats who were displaced from Central Bosnia during Lhe war are
not expected to return to their former homes. In the RS there are about 70,000 soldiers who are displaced without
homes or jobs.
2/    It is estimated that only about 72.000 were able to keep their jobs during the conflict.



- 2 -
conflict. The disabled will need training for alternative employment, and many widows are faced
with the necessity of entering the workforce to support dependents without appropriate qualifications.
4.            Employment and job creation is driven by reconstruction as well as by economic
restructuring and privatization. Reconstruction expenditures alone. estimated at over US$5 billion
during 1996-1999. will generate considerable short-term and medium-term employment for skilled
and unskilled workers. But there may be a mismatch between the supply and demand for labor.
Many demobilized soldiers with skills and experience can and will be involved in the reconstruction
effort. However, even at this early stage of reconstruction, skill shortages are appearing. Economic
restructuring will likely exacerbate the mismatch of skills for demobilized soldiers and other groups
described in paragraph 3.
5.            A reintegration strategy is needed to assist individuals who are not spontaneously
drawn into reconstruction-related employment, to help them find-jobs in the changing labor market --
including training and other support to help them start small businesses. This strategy must be
flexible in order to address the varying needs of the individuals, as well as the communities in which
they reside. The strategy should include: (a) provision of counseling and job-placement services, (b)
support for small business creation, including access to credit, (c) support for education and retraining
to adjust job seekers' qualifications to labor-market needs, (d) support for transitional temporary
employment through public works and public service employment, and (e) temporary income
support/cash benefits. Not all individuals will need assistance, and no one program can solve all
problems.
6.            The reconstruction program for Bosnia, supported by the Bank and other donors,
includes initiatives which address many of these needs. The Economic Recovery Project (ERP)
provides cash assistance for which many demobilized soldiers and their families will be eligible, and
credit for businesses, including small business start-ups. The several emergency investment projects
(for farm reconstruction, water supply, transport, district heating, war victims and education) will all
generate employment opportunities, as will the second-wave investment operations focussed on
infrastructure rehabilitation or reconstruction. A proposed Local Initiatives Project and Public Works
and Employment Project are under preparation by the Bank, both designed expressly to put people
back to work. While none of these projects is targeted specifically to demobilized soldiers, all
include former soldiers among their target groups. The only elements of the strategy not so far
explicitly and systematically addressed are the need for employment counseling, and for education and
retraining to adjust skills to market needs. The proposed Demobilization and Reintegration Project
would address this need.
B. IBRD/IDA Assistance Strategy
7.            Demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants is one of the highest priorities for
the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina for security, humanitarian, and economic reasons.
However, this urgent short-term issue must be looked at in the context of related issues including the
large numbers of refugees which must also be reintegrated into the economy, as well as medium term
challenges which include rebuilding the basic institutions necessary to operate a modem democratic
market economy. These short and medium term issues have been taken into account in the design of
the proposed project. First, steps have been taken to involve the major social partners in the
reintegration process. This has been done through creation of Employment and Training Foundations



- 3 -
(ETFs) to manage the project. Members include local government agencies, chambers of commerce,
and labor representatives. This implementation format will encourage the transfer of responsibility
from defense to civilian authorities, as well as provide an opportunity to strengthen social dialogue.
Second, the ETF framework will provide financing to local service providers, including NGOs, which
will provide services to demobilized soldiers. This support will also help local education and training
providers rebuild their capacity for medium-term support to the economy. Third, the ETFs provide a
framework which other Bank-financed projects (e.g. the Public Employment Project) and other donors
(e.g the European Union which has expressed support for the concept) can use to increase the flow of
resources to assist with reintegration of ex-combatants and refugees.
C. Detailed Project Description
8.           The overall objective of the proposed project is to assist economic reintegration of
displaced workers into the civilian workforce in order to reduce the burden on families, decrease
dependency on eventual social assistance, and increase economic productivity. The primary target
group is demobilized soldiers. Secondary target groups include refugees, war victims and the
disabled, widows, and the general unemployed.
9.           The project would finance, in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the
Republika Srpska, implementation of: improved labor market information data bases, counseling and
job-finding services, education and retraining services, and management support units to assist the
Employment and Training Foundations (ETFs) which are to be responsible for implementation
management in the Federation and the Republika Srpska. Each of these components is described
below:
(a)    Labor Market Information Data Base (US$1.5 million): The project would finance
automation hardware, software, and limited technical assistance and training to
re-establish, upgrade and broaden the labor market information data base operated by
Municipal Employment Services which have been severely disrupted by the conflict.
The previous job vacancy systems would be broadened, through cooperation with the
Reconstruction Agencies, to include qualitative and quantitative information on
reconstruction programs to assist with out-placement activities. The job seeker
registration systems would also be modified and broadened, in cooperation with the
Ministries of Defence, to include specialized information on the characteristics and
background of demobilized soldiers which may be useful during counseling and job-
placement activities. Summaries of this information would be available from the
Employment Service, in automated and newsletter formats, to agencies responsible for
organizing services (e.g. counseling, retraining, small business assistance, public
works) for demobilized soldiers and displaced workers.
(b)    Counseling and Job-Finding Services (US$1.8 million): The project would finance
limited technical assistance to develop counseling and job-finding services, and sub-
project contracts for delivery of counseling and job-finding services targeted
principally to demobilized soldiers, according to criteria and procedures agreed with
IDA (Appendix 2). Sub-projects for delivery of counseling and training services
would be contacted with Municipal Employment Services and/or private or Non-
Government Organizations (NGOs), and would utilize the previously described Labor
Market Information Data Base. Services may include (but are not be limited to):



-4-
family and social counseling, job search assistance, screening of individuals for
trauma counseling (possibly at the centers being financed under the War Victims
Rehabilitation Project), screening of individuals for participation in follow-up labor
adjustment activities (e.g., retraining, public works, small business assistance), and
provision of information on legal rights and responsibilities in civilian life.
(c)     Education and Retraining Services (US$ 16.0 million): The project would finance
sub-project contracts for demand-driven education and retraining services
(including small business training) primarily to demobilized soldiers in accordance
with criteria and procedures agreed with IDA (see Appendix 2). These contractual
services could include the provision of education and training resources to: (i)
enterprises which agree to provide on-job-training services to the unemployed; and
(ii) education and training institutions which provide short-term retraining
programs. Services would be demand driven and primarily provided through group
training contracts with enterprises and training institutions. Contracts would include
pre-negotiated levels of job placement at the end of training, and would contain
financial incentives and disincentives to reinforce job placement targets. In addition to
group training programs, a voucher program would also be made available to allow
individuals to enter ongoing institutional training programs, including assisting them
to complete advanced secondary or post-secondary formal education which was
disrupted by the war. The total estimated cost of this component is based on the
assumption that approximately 32,000 individuals receive education or training under
the project, at an average unit cost of US$500. This figure is based on experience in
the region, and conditions in BH. If all beneficiaries were demobilized soldiers, the
project would reach about 8%  of all demobilized soldiers.3'
(d)     Management Assistance (US$0.7 million): The project would finance technical
assistance and goods to develop and maintain two small Management Units, one in the
Federation and one in the RS. These would consist of approximately 3-5 staff each,
plus one extension officer in each Canton or Region (about five in the RS and 10 in
the Federation) and would promote, oversee, and monitor the local counseling and
retraining service contracts. These units would also coordinate all procurement
financed under the project and act as a liaison to the Bank, through the respective
Ministries of Finance, for supervision and reporting purposes.
The region has considerable experience with demand-driven tmning contracts (e.g. Albania, Turkey, FYR
Macedonia). Placement and retention rates after training exceed 75% in on-the-job-training and are about 50%
following institutional training, even under the difficult economic condilions in Albania and Macedonia. Typical
training subprojects are in the service and production sectors. and include such activities as shoe making, crafts, metal
fabrication, electrical manufacturing, newspapers, construction. food service, crafts, a broad array of hotel services,
hair dressing, textiles, and auto repair. Many involve small-and-medium-sized enterprises which are formed
following restructuring of large public enterprises. On-the-job-raining organized by enterprises -- either alone, or in
partnership with training institutions -- is often an important means of raising worker productivity.



-5-
Project Costs and Financing Plan
10.            Project Costs. The total cost of the Demobilization and Reintegration Project is
estimated at US$20.0 million. No price or physical contingencies have been included, given the
expected short disbursement period of this project and the variable scale of the largest project
components. The project is expected to disburse over a 24 month implementation period. Project
costs are summarized in the table below, and presented in more detail in Appendix 1.
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
Project Components                 1996       1997 -    Total
1. Labor Market Information         750.0     750.0    1,500.0
2. Employment Counseling            890.0     890.0    1,780.0
3. Education and Retraining       8,050.0   8,020.0   16,070.0
4. Project Management               340.0     310.0      650.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                 10,030.0   9,970.0   20,000.0
Table 2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(US$ '000)
Foreign     Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Office Equipment and Vehicles               1,790.0     1,790.0
B. Employment and Training Fund               17,730.0    17,730.0
C. Technical Assistance                          480.0      480.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                             20,000.0   20,000.0
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                                 - _
Total PROJECT COSTS                              20,000.0   20,000.0
11.            Financing Plan. Of the total cost project cost of US$20.0 million, US$7.5 million is
proposed as an IDA Credit. IDA funds would finance approved project inputs, net of taxes. Two-
thirds of total financing for the project would be allocated to project activities in the Federation, and
one-third to project activities in the Republika Srpska. Within the Federation, resources would be
distributed roughly in accordance with population. Cofinancing from the Dutch Government (US$0.4
million) has already been identified. Additional cofinancing of US$12.1 million is being sought to
meet the remaining financing gap. If financing is not found to fill this gap, the first three components
(labor market information, and sub-projects for counseling services and retraining services) would be
scaled back in accordance with available resources.



Table 3: FINANCING PLAN BY COMPONENT
(US$ '000)
IOA          Dutch Grant         Financing Gap           Total
Amount      %     Amount    %        Amount       %      Amount       %
1. Labor Market Information  1,479.9    98.7   20.1     1.3           -       -      1,500.0     7.5
2. Employment Counseling    562.1    31.6      60.3     3.4      1,157.7    65.0     1,780.0     8.9
3. Education and Retraining    5,110.6    31.8  20.1    0.1    10,939.3    68.1    16,070.0    80.4
4. Project Management       348.9    53.7    301.1    46.3            -               650.0      3.3
Total Disbursement           7,501.5    37.5    401.6      2.0    12,096.9    60.5    20,000.0   100.0
Table 4: FINANCING PLAN BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(US$ '000)           -
IDA          Dutch Grant        Financing Gap            Total
Amount    %       Amount    %        Amount       %      Amount       %
1. Office Equipment and Vehicles   1,710.0    95.5    80.0      4.5           -       -      1,790.0     9.0
2. Counseling and Training Fund    5,633.1    31.8        -       -    12,096.9    68.2    17,730.0    88.7
3. Technical Assistance             158.4    33.0   321.6    67.0             -        -      480.0      2.4
Total                                7,501.5    37.5   401.6       2.0    12,096.9    60.5    20,000.0   100.0
12.             Retroactive Financing. Although little capacity exits in the Federation or RS to
pre-finance activities, the possibility of retroactive financing should not be excluded -- particularly,
for the Federation, where early start-up is most likely. Therefore, retroactive financing will be
permitted up to the limit of 10% of the amount of the proposed Credit preallocated respectively to the
Federation for eligible expenses incurred after May 3, 1996 (but not more than four months prior to
signing) for TA for management support to the ETF and for initial counseling and retraining service
contracts.
Environmental Aspects
13.                Because the project is not expected to have any adverse environmental impact, it is
proposed for classification under Environmental Category C.
D. Institutional Arrangements and Implementation
Project Organization and Implementation
14.              The Project would be implemented over a maximum  of 24 months by two
Employment and Training Foundations (ETFs), established by the Federation Ministry of Finance and



the RS Ministry of Finance. The Federation ETF would be supported by external and local technical
assistance funding through a Dutch Government Trust Fund, while credit funds or other donor
support would be used to support the technical assistance for the RS. Responsibility for project
implementation, including responsibility for awarding education and training contracts. would be
delegated by the State Ministry of Finance to the Federation and RS Ministries of Finance, and on
(through subsidiary financing and project implementation agreements) to the respective Employment
and Training Foundations, which would contract for and oversee project implementation on behalf of
the respective Ministries of Finance. A summary of institutional arrangements is included in
Appendix 5. Key activities and roles are as follows:
(a)    The two ETFs would be established as non-profit foundations by the Federation and
RS Ministries of Finance, with terms of reference agreed with IDA. (See the proposed
ETF Charter in Appendix 3). Each ETF would have a Board of Trustees composed
of representatives from, but not limited to, the respective Federation and RS
Ministries of Finance, Ministries of Defense, Ministries of Refugees and Social
Affairs/Employment Institutes, Ministries of Education, Chambers of Commerce. and
trade unions 4/. Each project implemented under the respective ETFs, including this
proposed Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project, would have a single
Executive Director, approved by the ETF's Board of Trustees, with signatory
authority for expenditures under the project. The ETF Boards would review and
approve ETF policies, regulations, and major service delivery contracts (over
US$25,000), upon the recommendation of the Cantonal Steering Committees (para.
14d). Each project implemented under the respective ETFs, including this proposed
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project, would have an Executive
Committee, chaired by the Executive Director for the project. The Executive
Committee for this project would also comprise the Financial Director of the project,
and two members of the Board appointed by the Executive Director on a rotating
basis. The Executive Committee of the ETF for the proposed project would review
and approve all service delivery contracts up to $25,000. Each project implemented
by the respective ETFs, including this project, would have a secretariat to carry out
the operational requirements of implementation. As shown in Appendix 5, this
project is to be implemented by the Training Department in each of the ETFs; its
Executive Director is to be the secretary for implementation of the project; the Public
Works Departments are to be the secretariat for the proposed Emergency Public
Works and Employment Project.
(b)    The Federation and RS Ministries of Finance would initiate the establishment of the
ETFs and would serve as members of the ETF Boards, with equal voting rights as
other members.
(c)    With resources from the IDA Credit (and potentially other financiers), the ETFs
would contract for counseling and retraining services under approved sub-projects.
The ETFs would pay for the services delivered based on criteria and procedures
agreed with IDA (Appendix 2), including: (i) the type of counseling and retraining
4/    In the Federation there would be two representatives from each agency; each agency would have only one consensus
vote.



-8 -
services to be provided, (ii) the agencies eligible to provide these services, and (iii)
eligible costs to be reimbursed under service contracts.
(d)    The ETFs would have an extension staff member working in each canton, who would
work with local service providers to develop and monitor implementation of
counseling and retraining service contracts, following criteria and procedures agreed
with IDA. All proposals would be reviewed by Cantonal Steering Committees. In
each canton, the ETF extension agent would serve as the secretariat to the Cantonal
Steering Committee. The extension agent would nominate a Cantonal Steering
Committee for approval by the appropriate ETF Board. In addition, each Cantonal
Steering Committee would include a representative appointed by the main municipality
of the canton. The Cantonal Steering Committees would review all proposals for
counseling and retraining services. For proposals which pass this first stage of
review, the ETF extension agent would forward them to the ETF Executive
Committee with a recommendation for approval. Proposals in excess of $25,000
would need to be approved by the full ETF Board.
(e)    ETFs would reimburse local counseling and retraining contractors on a monthly basis
against invoices submitted by the contractor, and on the basis of agreed unit costs as
stipulated in the contracts. The ETFs may provide mobilization payments to sub-
project contractors, as agreed with IDA.
Procurement
15.          Procurement arrangements are summarized in table 5, below. As recommended by
the Bosnia Procurement Advisory Committee, packages will be procured mainly through International
Shopping (IS), National Shopping (NS) and Direct Contracting (DC).



-9 -
Table 5: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS '
(US$ Million)
Non-Bank
Category of Expenditure                           ISt'               OTHER"'         Financed    TOTAL
Office Equipment and Vehicles                        1.7             --                 .d/              1.8
(1.7)                             (0.0)             (1.7)
Technical Assistance'                               --                0.1              0.4               0.5
and Training                                                         (0.1)            (0.0)             (0.1)
Counseling and                                     --                5.7'            12.0              17.7
Training Contracts                                                  (5.7)            (0.0)             (5.7)
Total Financing Requirements                         1.7              5.8             12.5              20.0
(1.7)            (5.8)            (0.0)             (7.5)
a/  Figures in parentheses are the respecuve amounts financed by IDA.
b/  Intenational Shopping.
cl Includes Consultant Services and Direct Contracting.
d/ Procurement of non-Bank financed goods will be carried out using agreed World Bank procurement guidelines for Bosnia-
Herzegovina.
el Procurement according to Bank guidelines for use of consultants.
0 Procurement of services under CTC will not exceed USS50,000/contract, and will be carried out principally on a sole source basis.
Goods
16.             Advertising. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) (Appendix 4) will be published
in DeveloDment Business in June, 1996. The notice would include information about the nature of
the goods, and services to be procured, and invite interested and eligible suppliers, contractors and
consultants to send their expression of interest to the ETFs.
17.             ICB/LIB. It is not envisaged that ICB or LIB procedures will be utilized for the
procurement of goods or services, since no single contract will exceed US$2.0 million equivalent.
18.             International Shopping (IS). Procedures for IS will be used for equipment and
materials or standard-specification commodities estimated to cost between US$200,000 and US$2.0
million per contract. IS will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from two eligible countries, in accordance with Bank guidelines. IS is expected to be used
primarily for computer and vehicles procurement under the project.
19.             National Shopping (NS). NS will be used for contracts for goods available in Bosnia
Herzegovina up to an estimated cost US$200,000 per contract, with at least three quotations.



- 10 -
20.          Direct Contracting (DC). DC will be used for proprietary items. for reasons of
compatibility and standardization. and in any other justified case. Any direct contracting during
project implementation will require prior Bank approval.
Services
21.          Services will be procured through competition and sole-sourcing where and when
appropriate. Qualified firms have been invited to submit proposals for a comprehensive package of
consultant services to management the Federation ETF, in accordance with the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" (August
1981). These proposals are currently under review by the Federation ETF.
22.          Job Counseling and Training Service Contracts. Individual sub-project contracts
for job counseling and training services are not expected to exceed US$50,000. Contracts would be
awarded by the ETF, principally on a sole-source basis according to the following procedure:
(a)    Local ETF extension agents would publicize the availability of funds for counseling
and retraining, and help potential service providers prepare proposals using standard
proposal formats -- readily convertible into service-delivery contracts -- to be
developed by the ETF in conformity with criteria and procedures agreed with the
Bank.
(b)    Local ETF extension agents would convene the Cantonal Steering Committee to
review and comment on the service proposals. For proposals which pass this first
stage of review, the ETF extension agent would forward them to the ETF Executive
Committee with a recommendation for approval.
(c)    The ETF Executive Committee would review all proposals submitted by the ETF
extension agents. It would approve proposals up to US$25,000 in value, and would
forward proposals above that amount to the full ETF Board for approval. The ETF
secretariat would convert approved proposals into contracts for signature and
execution. Actual implementation of the contracts would be managed by the Training
Department of the respective ETFs.
(d)    Local training and counseling service providers would invoice the ETF on a monthly
basis for services provided in conformity with their training or counseling sub-project
contract.
(e)    The ETF would review invoices and initiate payment from the respective Special
Account (paragraph 27) through a correspondent bank in BH, to the service provider.
If agreed, the ETF could provide a mobilization payment of up to 25% of total
contract value to service providers.
(f)    The State Ministry of Finance would request replenishment of the Special Accounts
based on requests from the ETFs, documented with SOEs.



-Ill -
Procurement Review Committee
23.          The Governrnent plans to establish a generic Procurement Review Committee to
review procurement under all Bank-financed reconstruction projects. Procuremen under the proposed
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project would be subject to audit by this Committee.
Procurement Implementation Capacity
24.          Because the Borrower is likely to be short of the capacity for timely implementation in
various areas, including procurement of goods and services, technical assistance will be provided
under the ETF management support contract to help facilitate project implementation. In addition,
procurement under the project will be supported by a World Bank Operations Officer and a
Procurement Officer located at the World Bank's Bosnia Resident Mission in Sarajevo.
Prior and Post Bank Review of Procurement Documents
25.          The Bank has prepared the invitation to quote and contract documents for International
Shopping, as well as a National Shopping document for goods. These documents would be used
under the project. Prior review will be required for all contracts procured through IS and Direct
Contracting (DC). For consultants' contracts, the Bank's standard form for consultants contracts
would be used. Ex-post review by IDA would be performed for institutional consultant contracts of
less than $100,000 and of individual consultant contracts of less than $50,000.



- 12 -
Disbursements
26.          Disbursement categories under the Credit are shown in Table 6 below. The project
is expected to be disbursed over a period of 24 months from the date of effectiveness, scheduled for
July 1996. The closing date will be January 31. 1999. Retroactive financing will be permitted up to
the limit of 10% of the amount of the proposed Credit preallocated to the Federation for eligible
expenses incurred after May 3, 1996 (but not more than four months prior to signing) for TA for
management support to the Federation ETF and for initial counseling and retraining service contracts
in the Federation.
Table 6: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
(US$ million)
Category            Credit    % of Expenditures to be Financed
1. Goods
Federation            1.00     100% (net of taxes)
RS                    0.50
2. Job Counselling and                100%
Training Fund
Federation            3.70
RS                    1.85
3. Consultant Services                100%
and Training
Federation            0.10
SR                    0.10
4. Unallocated                        100%
Federation            0.15
RS                    0.10
TOTAL               7.50
27.          Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, payments for agreed
project actions are to be made from two Special Accounts in US dollars which are to be established
and maintained by the State Ministry of Finance at a bank acceptable to IDA. The State Ministry of
Finance would designate the individuals with authority to sign withdrawal applications for



- 13 -
disbursements from the respective Special Accounts. For the Federation Special Account, this would
initially include a representative of the Federation Ministry of Finance, the Chairman of the
Federation ETF, or the Executive Director of the Training Department of the ETF. The authorized
allocation of the Federation and RS Special Accounts would be limited to DM 1,300,000 and DM
700,000 respectively, representing about four months of estimated average expenditures expected to
be paid from the Special Accounts. Replenishment applications would be forwarded to the Bank on a
monthly basis, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate documents.
28.          Statement of Expenditures. Disbursements would be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) for: a) goods contracts up to US$2.0 million equivalent (with the exception of
the first three contracts less than USS2.0 million), consulting firms and individuals up to US$100,000
and US$50,000. respectively, and all job counselling and training. Detailed documents evidencing
expenditures would be maintained in a central location by ETF Management and made available for
the required audit as well as Bank supervision missions. Each of the ETFs would request
replenishment of its Special Account based on SOEs. No contracts under the project are expected to
exceed US$1.0 million equivalent. The project completion date would be July 31, 1998.
Project Audits, Accounting and Reporting
29.          Accounts. Separate and auditable accounts would be established by the management
of each ETF. These accounts would include: (i) a record of withdrawals with copies of all
disbursement requests and underlying documentation; (ii) a record of transactions on the special
account and the copies of the bank statements on this account; and (iii) a record of transactions under
the ETFs.
30.          Audits. The project accounts, including the ETFs, would be audited annually by
independent auditors and under terms and reference acceptable to the Bank. Separate audit statements
would be prepared for the ETFs, the Special Accounts and for Statements of Expenditures. All audit
reports would be made available to the Bank at the latest six month after the end of the fiscal year.
All project accounts would be maintained for one year after they have been audited.
31.          Reporting. The management of each ETF will prepare and furnish to the Bank a
quarterly progress report showing the status of implementation of the project as well as a financial
report in a format acceptable to the Bank. The format of the report would be agreed during
negotiations.



- 14 -
Supervision Plan
32.           Project implementation will require a large degree of flexibility in view of the rapidly
changing circumstances in the country. Implementation progress would be formally evaluated at
mid-term, approximately nine months after effectiveness. In addition, to facilitate flexibility and rapid
decision making, social sectors Bank staff located in the World Bank Resident Mission in Sarajevo
and in the Human Resources Hub in Budapest would provide intensive supervision of all initial
project implementation steps, and would provide technical assistance on matters requiring rapid
decision by the Bank. In particular, procurement and disbursement issues would require intensive
supervision, given the flexibilities built into the implementation plan, and the lack of familiarity of the
Borrower with Bank procedures and practices. A Project launch workshop is planned as soon as the
related Technical Assistance Contract is finalized and initial staff are in place. It is expected that an
average of 25 staff weeks per year will be needed to supervise the Project; it is anticipated that this
will be provided primarily by staff from the Resident Mission and Hungary Human Resource
Operations Hub.



- 15 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 1 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project
Estimated Cost
(US$ '000)
Project Cost Summary
Labor                 Education
Market   Employmwnt    and         Project
Information  Counseling  Retraining Managnemnt   Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Office Equipment and Vehicles          1,470.0          -           -      320.0     1,790.0
B. Employment and Training Contracts           -     1,690.0    16,040.0          -    17,730.0
C. Technical Assistance                     30.0        90.0        30.0      330.0       480.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                         1,500.0     1,780.0    16,070.0      650.0    20,000.0
Foreign Exchange                          1,500.0    1,780.0    16,070.0      650.0    20,000.0



- 16 -
APPENDIX I
Page 2 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project
Estimated Cost
(US$ '000)
Labor Market Information Data Base
1996     1997    Total
1. Investbent Costs
A. Technical Assistance         15.0    15.0    30.0
B. Office Equipment           735.0   735.0  1,470.0
Total                            750.0   750.0  1,500.0
Counseling and Job-Finding Services
1996    1997      Total
1. Invesment Costs
A. Technical Assistance               45.0    45.0        90.0
B. Counseling Services              845.0   845.0       1,690.0
Total                                  890.0   890.0      1,780.0



- 17 -
APPENDIX I
Page 3 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project
Estimated Cost and Disbursement Schedule
(US$ '000)
Education and Retraining Services
196       1997        Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance                   30.0                   30.0
B. Education and Training Services     8,020.0    8,020.0   16,040.0
Total                                     8,050.0    8,020.0    16,070,0
Employment and Training Foundation Management
I9"     1937    Total
1. Investment CostS
A. Technical Assistance
Intemational TA                                 45.0    30.0     75.0
Local Consultants                              120.0   120.0   240.0
Fellowships                                     10.0     5.0    15.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                    175.0  155.0    330.0
B. OMce Equipment and Vehicles
Office Equipment                                25.0    25.0    50.0
Materials and Supplies                          50.0    50.0    100.0
Vehicles                                        90.0    80.0   170.0
Subtotal Omce Equipmnent and Vehicles            I 96.0   155.0   320.0
Total                                              340.0   310o0 650.0



- 18 -
APPENDIX 2
Page 1 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project
Principles and Criteria for Use of Funds
by the Employment and Training Foundation
General Principles:
The following principles apply to contracts that will be let between the ETFs and local service
providers to deliver counseling and retraining services to demobilized soldiers and other categories
of workers and, unless otherwise agreed with the IDA, will be the basis on which the IDA reimburses
the Employment and Training Foundations for expenses incurred.
(a)    Eligible individuals: During the first six months of project effectiveness a minimum of 80%
of ETF Fund resources for counseling and retraining services will be reserved for assisting
demobilized soldiers, after the first six months a minimum of 65% will be reserved for demobilized
soldiers, with the remainder being made available to help other categories of the unemployed who are
registered at the Employment Services (e.g. war victims and disabled, widows, refugees, and the
general unemployed). Individuals receiving income support stipends from sources outside the project
would receive reduced stipends under the project to maintain equity.
(b)    Demand: Service contracts would be demand driven: developed at the local level, and based
on requests from demobilized soldiers for skills requalification, and on consultation with the social
partners (the Canton Steering Committees) to confirm labor market demand.
(c)    Costs of services: Reimbursement to local service contractors would be based on the average
unit cost of providing services to an individual times the number of individuals actually completing
the program. Payments to service providers would be monthly, and would be based on invoices
presented for services provided, less a per-trainee deduction for dropouts. Mobilization payments, to
a maximum of 25% of the contract, would be allowed. Two-thirds of resources would be available to
the Federation (with internal distribution between communities roughly based on population and
demand) and one-third to the Republika Srpska.
(d)    Evaluation of services: Service providers would be required to provide job placement
information for all participants who receive services. (See special note on follow-up requirements on
retraining services on the following page).
(e)    Mobility: Labor mobility among participants would be encouraged under the project. To
support this initiative, the ETFs would collect and disseminate information on training and counseling
services available under the project. The Labor Market Information Component, in cooperation with
the ETFs, would include information on Federation job vacancies, reconstruction programs, and
retraining opportunities. The Fund could support relocation costs for individuals to move to localities
where suitable jobs are available. It could also support transportation for participants in retraining
programs.



- 19 -
APPENDIX 2
Page 2 of 3
(f)    Contract Execution: ETF Executive Committees would have the authority to approve and
execute contracts up to US$25,000. Contracts above this threshold would have to be submitted to the
full ETF Board for approval.
Criteria for Specific Services
(a)    Criteria for Counseling. Job Finding, and Relocation Services
1.     Eligible Services: family and social counseling, job search and finding assistance,
provision of labor market information, screening of individuals for trauma counseling,
screening of individuals for participation in follow-up labor adjustment activities (e.g.
retraining, public works, small business assistance), and provision of information on legal
rights. Maximum length of contracts is 12 months.
2.     Eligible Local Agencies: Employment Service municipal offices, non-government non-
profit agencies (NGOs), private firms, and other labor organizations that demonstrate
minimum capabilities to provide services (e.g. trained staff, facilities, financial viability,
placement capability).
3.     Eligible Costs: staff and administrative personnel costs, rent and utilities, non-durable
equipment and materials, client transportation for job interviews, depreciation of capital
equipment limited to 30% per year and to 20% of the total contract; minor facility
refurbishment, limited to 20% of the total contract, and relocation expenses including travel
of family and transport of personal belongings to a maximum of US$500 per family.
(b)    Criteria for Retraining Services 1'
1.     Eligible Services: vocational skills, literacy, communications (including foreign
language) and mathematics skills, small business skills training and management training.
Maximum length of training per individual is 6 months.
2.     Eligible Agencies and Costs: (a) Private, NGO, and public training institutions would
be reimbursed for: staff and administrative personnel costs, rent and utilities, non-durable
equipment and materials, trainee transportation, depreciation of capital equipment purchased
limited to 50% per year and 20% of an individual contract, minor facility refurbishment
limited to 20% of the total contract, trainee living stipends limited to a maximum of 25% of
the total contract. (b) Enterprises providing on-job-training for their own current or future
workers would be eligible for reimbursement for: (i) half of the
5/     Average unit costs are not to exceed US$500, and maxirum unit costs are not to exceed USS750 without prior IDA
agreement.



- 20 -
APPENDIX 2
Page 3 of 3
total unit costs noted above; or (ii) instructor, participant transportation and living costs, and
non-durable costs, whichever is less. F'
(c)     Criteria for Education and Retraining Services (individual voucher program, para. 9ci)
Under this option, individual unemployed soldiers would identify ongoing training programs
at approved institutions, and enroll in ETF-approved programs at institutions. The institution
would be reimbursed by the ETF for costs incurred. This individual voucher program is not
available for Enterprise On-Job-Training.
1.      Eligible Services: (i) short-term  institutional retraining services (see BI), plus (ii)
support to individual demobilized soldiers who are returning to University to complete studies
disrupted by the war to complete post secondary and University education).
2.      Eligible agencies: Essentially the same as for Group Training (see b 2), with the
added provisions that: (i) the institutions and programs must be on an approved list at the
Canton (to be developed by the ETF extension agent in cooperation with the CSC) and (ii) the
institutions must have a contract executed with the ETF that defines agreed unit costs and
agreed level of job placement for qualifying programs. Institutions not meeting agreed
placement rates within the preceeding 12 month period will be deleted from the approved list.
3.      Eligible costs: The same as for Group Training (see b 2) with the same maximum
average unit costs (US$500) and maximum costs (US$750). Note: all payments under the
voucher program would be to the participating institution on a monthly basis, and would be
based on invoices for services delivered to approved participants.
6/      Note: All retraining contracts are to include a pre-negotiated rate of job placement in the range of 60-90 percent and
would include incentives for exceeding agreed placement rates (e.g. 10 percent bonus payments) and disincentives for
not achieving agreed placement rates (e.g. the withholding of 10% of f-nal payment for training services and loss of
eligibility for further contracts). Information confirming labor market demand (e.g. review and endorsement by the
Cantonal Steering Committee) are required before training contracts are tinalized between ETF and service provider.
Training service providers would be required to provide follow-up job placement information to the ETF, both when
participants exit training and on a sample of at least 25% of trainees three months after program exit.



- 21 -
APPENDIX 3
Page I of 5
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project
Charter Establishing the
Employment and Training Foundation
Considering the large levels of unemployment expected during demobilization and
reconstruction, and the difficulties of creating and finding new employment in the changing market
structure;
Considering the need to develop new skills among the labor force to improve their chances
for employment, and to create new job opportunities for the unemployed;
Considering the widespread devastation to municipal public assets and infrastructure, and the
need to provide for urgent clean up, rehabilitation and reconstruction of such infrastructure;
The Government of the [Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina or Republika Srpska] decides
to create the Employment and Training Foundation (ETF).
CHAPTIER 1 - General
Article 1.    The Employment and Training Foundation (ETF), hereinafter referred to as "the
Foundation", is hereby established under the Foundation Law as a juridical person with
administrative, technical and financial autonomy.
The Foundation shall perform its activities pursuant to this charter and its implementing
Regulations.
The domicile of the Foundation will be the city of Sarajevo [or Pale] and it may open offices
in other cities within the country.
Article 2.    The Foundation's objective shall be enhancing employment opportunities for the
unemployed through the financing of various activities as defined in its Regulations and in Article 11
of this Charter.
CHAPTER 2 - Foundation Activities
Article 3.    The Foundation's objectives shall be accomplished as follows:
The Foundation will promote and finance, through grants to public or non-government, non-
profit or private sector entities, the following activities: (a) counseling and job finding, (b) retraining,
(c) public works, and (d) public service employment projects. The grants will be subject to
requirements on content, duration, technical standards and other aspects as set forth in



- 22 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 2 of 5
contracts with executing agencies and in Foundation Regulations and as may be agreed with financing
sources.
The Foundation may finance other activities than those described above by decision of its Board of
Trustees, provided that these projects will serve to achieve the objectives of the Foundation set forth in
Article 2 and are subject to the conditions stated in the Regulations.
Other Foundation activities include information, staff training, transfer of technology and advisory work
related to the main activities of the Foundation.
Article 4.   Project proposals will be initiated by public or nongovernment or private sector entities
and submitted to the Foundation.
The Foundation will evaluate these project proposals and, if it endorses them, finance them according to
its Regulations. Project execution is the responsibility of the executing agency, not the Foundation. The
Foundation will, however, exercise technical and financial supervision to ensure projects are implemented
as agreed.
CHAPTER 3 - Revenues and Resources of the Foundation
Article 5.   The Foundation's financial revenues comprise:
-resources assigned by multilateral or bilateral aid programs;
-grants provided by the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
-grants provided by the [Federation of Bosnia Herzegovina or Republika Srpskal;
-domestic and foreign donations; and
-other revenues and income that may arise.
Article 6.   The resources of the Foundation shall be deposited in independent commercial bank
accounts.
Article 7.   The [Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina or Republika Srpska] will provide to the
Foundation such budget resources as are required in accordance with international financial agreements
to which the Government is a party.
The Foundation will submit to the Government its annual budget requirements consistent with
international agreements and the laws of the [Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina or Republika Srpskal.
CHAPTER 4 -Foundation's Organizational Structure
Article 8.   The governing bodies of the Foundation are:
- the Board of Trustees
- the Executive Committees (one for each Department as described in Article 11)



- 23 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 3 of 4
Article 9.   The Board of Trustees, hereafter referred to as "the Board", shall be composed of two
appointed representatives from the following organizations:
Federation                               Republika Srpska
Ministry of Finance                      Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Defense                      Ministry of Defense
Ministry of Physical Planning & Env't    Ministry of Urbanism, Planning & Civil Works
Ministry of Refugees and Welfare         Min. of Health, Labor & Welfare
Ministry of Education                    Min. of Education, Science and Culture
Employment Institute                     Institute for Employment
Chamber of Commerce                      Chamber of Commerce
Federation of Independent Unions         Unions
The Minister (or Chief Executive Officer) of each organization shall propose two representatives
to the Board which shall be appointed by the Government of [the Federation or Republika Srpskal.
Board members shall receive no remuneration of their services except for direct costs of travel
and per diem associated with attendance at Foundation meetings.
Article 10.    The Board shall be chaired by the [Federation or RS] Minister of Finance or his
designated alternate.
Article I l.   The Board shall approve the creation and disbanding of operational Departments to carry
out discrete employment related activities. Initially there will be two Departments, one to fulfill the
objectives of the Demobilization and Reintegration Project supported by the International Development
Association (IDA) and other donors, and the second to fulfill the objectives of the Public Works and
Employment Project supported by IDA and other donors. The two Departments will be governed by the
provisions of this Charter and their separate implementing Regulations approved by the Board.
The objectives of the Demobilization and Reintegration Department will be to enhance
employment opportunities through the financing of labor redeployment activities including but not limited
to: counseling and job placement services, retraining, and other labor redeployment measures that the
Department and the Foundation may deem useful. The target population of the Foundation's grant
activities initially will be demobilized soldiers, war victims, disabled, war widows, refugees as well as
the general unemployed.
The objectives of the Public Works and Employment Department will be to create employment
rapidly for those displaced or unemployed as a result of the war; and to accomplish that objective through
the financing of small scale clean up, rehabilitation and reconstruction projects at the local level. Such
projects shall be labor intensive and executed by local contractors.



- 24 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 4 of 5
Article 12.    The Board shall have the following duties:
-     approve the Regulations of the Foundation;
-      approve the policies and guidelines regulating the Foundation's activities;
-      approve or disapprove project financing proposals for amounts as defined in the implementing
Regulations of each Department.
-     approve the Foundation's annual budget;
-     approve the annual financial and operational reports;
-     authorize negotiations and enter into agreements with the [Federation, RS] and financial
institutions necessary to achieve its purposes;
-     hold ordinary meetings every three months and extraordinary meetings as often as necessary on
the initiative of the Chairman;
-     appoint the Executive Directors and the Board members serving on the Executive
Committees; and
-      all other duties assigned under the corresponding regulations
Article 13.    Meetings will be held with the attendance of representatives of at least five (5)
organizations and decisions taken by a simple majority of votes. Each organization shall have one vote.
The Board may invite the representatives of other public, non-government, and private agencies to its
meetings, who should have voice but no vote.
Article 14.    The Executive Committees shall be formed by:
-      the Executive Director of the relevant Department;
-      the Financial Director of the Department; and
-      two members of the Board appointed by the Chairman on a rotating basis.
The Executive Directors shall serve as the Chairmen of the Executive Committees. A quorum
of the Executive Committees shall consist of three of its four members. In the event of a tied vote, the
Chairman will cast an additional vote.
Article 15.    The Executive Directors shall be named and removed by a majority vote of the Board,
and shall meet the professional requirements related to their function.
Article 16.    The Executive Directors shall be the highest executive authority of the Foundation and
shall have the following duties:
represent the Department and the Foundation in legal matters;
direct the operations of the Department and implement the Board's decisions;
manage the resources of the Departments;
select and appoint the staff;
prepare and present projects for approval of the Executive Committees and the Board;
sign the pertinent contracts for professional and technical services;



- 25 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 5 of 5
-      prepare and propose to the Board the implementing Regulations of this Charter for the
Departments and all others that may be necessary;
-      request the Board's authorization to contract external auditors;
-      all other duties assigned by this Charter and its Regulations.
Article 17.    The Executive Committees shall have among their duties the approval or disapproval of
project financing proposals up to amounts specified in the Departments' implementing Regulations.
Article 18.    The professional, technical and administrative staff shall be selected by the Executive
Directors, based on their personal, professional and technical capabilities; and approved by the Board.
Article 19.    The work relations of the staff shall be regulated by the clauses of the signed professional
and technical contracts, which shall be subject to the laws of the [State , Federation, Republika Srpska].
Article 20.    Staff and operating expenses shall be financed with the Foundation's resources. The
salaries and other remuneration of Departmental staff members will be fixed by the Board of Trustees
and shall not be subject to civil service regulations of [State, Federation, Republika Srpskal.
CHAPTER 5 - Auditing
Article 21.    The Foundation shall be subject to external auditing by independent international auditors.
Reports from the External Auditors shall be reviewed by the Board, and made available to donors for the
corresponding action.
CHAPTER 6 - Final and Temporary Provisions
Article 22.    The Foundation shall be exempt from any type of taxes, fees and charges, or from any
other national or local revenue contributions, present or to be established in the future.
Article 23.    The Board of Trustees may decide to dissolve the Foundation and submit this decision
to the (Federation or Republika Srpska) Ministry of Finance for approval. For this purpose only the
meeting will be held with the presence of all the members of the Board of Trustees and the decision shall
be taken by a two-thirds majority of votes. If the Foundation is to be dissolved, the (Federation or
Republika Srpska) Minister of Finance should constitute a Committee to liquidate it, which shall have the
following duties:
transfer all the financial resources and all other assets from the Foundation to the
corresponding governmental bodies; and
submit the report of its activities to the (Federation or Republika Srpska) Minister of Finance and
to the agencies he or she deems convenient.



- 26 -
APPENDIX 4
Page I of 2
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project
Project Procurement
Project Procurement Plan
Expenditure Category              Total Cost      Likely           Invitation       Contract        Work/            AU Work/
USS million     Procurement    to Bid             Awards          Delivery         Ddivery
Methods                                            Begins          Complete
GOODS AND EQUIPMENT
Computers (Employment             1.5            IS                6/96             10/96            11/96           01/97
Services)
Office Equipment                  0.2             IS               6/96             8/96             9/96             10/96
Vehicles                          0.2             IS               6/96             8/96             9/96             10/96
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 1/
Implementation Support
ETF Management:               0.3             Short List       4-5/96           6/96             6/96             6/97
Federation                                        (Grant)
ETF Management: RS            0.1             Short List       4-5/96           6/96             6/96             6/97
(Credit)
EDUCATION AND                     17.7            DC of            N/A              6/96-3/98        6/96            6/98
TRAINING CONTRACTS                                Individuals
1/       All TA financed under the project is categorized as implementation support; TA for program development and technical
support is financed through a Bank-executed Dutch Trust Fund which is not considered part of project cost.



- 27 -
APPENDIX 4
Page 2 of 2
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project
Project Procurement
GENERAL PROCUREMENT NOTICE
The Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina is expected to receive a credit from the
International Development Association for a proposed Demobilization and Reintegration Project.
The Government is also expected to receive loans and grants from other multilateral sources, such
as the European Union, and from several bilateral sources.
The credits, loans and grants mentioned above are intended to be used to facilitate the
demobilization and economic reintegration of military in the Bosnian Federation and in the
Republika Srpska. It is intended that the loans and grants would finance the cost of the following
procurement:
1.    Consultant services for managing the Employment and Training Foundation.
2.    Supply of computers and vehicles.
3.    Services contracts for job counseling and training.
Given the emergency nature of the project, the above mentioned goods and consultant
services will be procured through accelerated procurement procedures within the framework of
the procurement guidelines and regulations of the World Bank, European Union, and other
possible participating financing agencies and donors.
Interested suppliers and manufactures and consulting firms are invited to send their
expression of interest to the address specified below. As eligibility requirements of the World
Bank, the European Union and other financing agencies and donors vary for participation in
bidding, the Purchaser will prepare a list of interested suppliers, manufacturers and consulting
firms according to their eligibility. As and when the Purchaser will be ready with bidding
documents or with invitations to quote, these will be sent to those who will respond to this notice.
Name:        Ms. Berina Selimovic
Director of International Relations
Address:     State Ministry of Finance
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Fax:         (387-71) 668-673



APPENDIX 5
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project
Summary of l'roject Implementation Relationships
|  IDA       |Credit                                                  |    STATE 
OF BH        |
Agreement
Subsidiary onterding agreements
Federation of BH                                                           Repubika Srpska
Deposits                                                                    Deposits
n str  aof                                                                  Ministry of|
innefiac                                                                           I
Foundation Grant                        v                                  Foundation Grant
v Agreement                                                                ' Agreement
commercial Bank                                                           Commercial Bank
Emptoyment & Training                                                     Employment & Training
Foundation                                                                Foundation
Spec iatr                              1Seia
Account                          Iaoard I                                 Aceount                          ['3ad 
Training                          [                                       Training 
Speci at                                                                 SpeciaL
Account             Public Works       Training                           Account            Public Works         Training
Public Works          Department        Department                        Public Works         Department          Department
Contracts                          Contracts                               Contracts                             Contracts
Municipalities                                                            MunicipaLities
-   Executing              Service  |                                       Executing                  Service
Agencies                Providers                                         Agencies                  Providers



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28082
I                          To ZogToreareb  ZgrebTo Os,qek
To Zogreb      <Z      ToaZogreb       C  R 0  A T I A                 To Vmkoci                               _
~~~ - ,, , 4 < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~To Osqekj 
To 0                                                                                                        T S m  /
sonski Novi,                                goniD 
Px                              Der SenskiMostat   kSpiontco G
0                                                       CO~~~~~~~~~~~0
-2                                               0 Prnia                   ?Gr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ago lkaa  0  0oi   -
ih  c            Bon~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~dok                                Oocrk          o a
-1< r                          Lu a                                                             Bilell,nG t   Voksuf) Kreieo  a  evo  /  B  7e
CROATIA~~~~~~~onk Mo DDv               >9@                 v d             vc                Bnoilgnk  
/  4   \        6         Travnsk    t                               \  Sekovici    ^3R>,<5~~~~~pioica 
. -          \%  ~~~~~~~Bosanski  Grhoo                Koo Vf ParoVe  T-i, Wic          0Vrs5                 Vlsnc
-1        \   Donji Va u4.         Vifez   3OK~~~~~~~~~~~on oj    a I                   1-0-enca  MY
'             {  G~~~~~~~~orknder Vakuf                                                      M Krsv<)Srieol %Blr
Zadar               ,      >~~~~~~N   <'WLtBv. '           Prozor             fr/S\           t         C&)Verad               li Uze
SObeniA                   '                                                                 0 B      Duino  i*
Jabla  I nic     Kaoen                   KI
Bosa\, GPosue
S-   i 2              --                         atrW                  .u  
,            -ao   -careeo \a Nevesinje                                        <       Vasenic.
~~ ~~ '   '\.    ''        fJl      <               GockaO  (FEDERAL  REPUBLIC
_43n .                 <                                    Place++-D  i  V                                      YUGOSLAVIA
vB.usovacacaO ((SERBIA/MONTENEGRO)
Adriatic  Sea                                                                       .                                                   44
\,        0n                          KILOMETERS 
BOS NIA   AND   HE RZEGOVI NA                                     Dubro vnvntlci''luas'elfc1..'d2sioX'c'l 
EME RGE NCY  DEMOBI LIZATIO~JN  ANL Dde$ogortc                                                                   Tll9rFraalII28L;Ovl Llglrn
REINTEGRATION  PROJECT                                                                                      19-- rledrelllt-cpc-
-       DAYTON AGREEMENT LINES                                    XLu    IC          >      20     }-Cf
SERB-CONTROLLED AREAS                                        .            R,CEPHiFLN!            URN
FEDERATION-CONTROLLED AREAS             /        _       >                        ,      - ~  o>,:
- RIVERS                                                      . STZ kr tU STRIAJ  HUNGAR, /            > 
-42                                SELECTED CITIES                                       42'- S ,)                   5 a PMA  
i   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                     TA    --|       sp|,,t, B1te-      "'
--iNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES - ;  BLAP *
Are~ of mop~ ... rD,,_J.-
'THE STATUS OF BRI:KO WlLL BE DETERMINED                  40                        4EEC r A- ..    
I          ~~~~16                              1 7^                                18'                                 .,- 20         a  KE
JUNE I Qr,









iMxU 1 'NUQ
Report No:   -    6947 BIH
Type:  -
'Th4



