Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3358-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$16.3 MILLION
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
PHASE II BUDESERA GISAKA MIGONGO (RURAL SERVICES) PROJECT
June 22, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                     Rwandese franc (Rf) 91.91
RF 100                      US$1.09
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BGM         -  Bugesera Gisaka Migongo Project
CLUSA       -  Cooperative League of the USA
CRS         -  Catholic Relief Services
FAC         -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
GRENARWA    -  Grenier National du Rwanda (National Grain Marketing)
IAMSEA      -  Institut Africain et Mauricien de Statistiques et Economie
Appliquee (African Mauritian Institute for Statistics and
Applied Economics)
IITA        -  International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
ISAR        -  Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda
(Agricultural Research Institute of Rwanda)
OBM         -  Office du Bugesera et Mayaga
(Agency for Bugesera and Mayaga)
OCIR-Cafe   -  Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda - Cafe
(Agency for Industrial Crops of Rwanda - Coffee)
OCIR-The    -  Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda - The
(Agency for Industrial Crops of Rwanda - Tea
ONAPO       -  Office National de la Population (National Population
Office)
OPROVIA     -  Office National pour le Developpement et la
Commercialisation des Produits Vivriers et de la Production
Animale (National Agency for Development and Marketing of
Foodcrops and Animal Products)
PAV         -  Poste Agro-Veterinaire (Agro-Veterinary Support Center)
SSS         -  Service des Semences Selectionnees (Selected
Seed Service)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                              British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                                    3.3 feet
1 hectare (ha)                                 2.47 acres
1 a1re (100 m2)                                0.02 acres
1 kilometer (km)                               0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)            =          0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)                                2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                                    0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)                           2,204 pounds (lb)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
PHASE II BUGESERA GISAKA MIGONGO (RURAL SERVICES) PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Rwandese Republic
Amount:              SDR 14.5 million (US$16.3 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Project              (i) Objectives:  To:  (i) carry out research trials and
Description:              introduce new cropping techniques and varieties for
the semi-arid areas; (ii) promote conservation to
prevent loss of soil fertility; (iii) integrate
crop and livestock activities on the farm plot and
promote destocking of cattle and substitution of
small stock where appropriate; (iv) intensify
cultivation of cash crops and foodcrops in areas of
average and above average potential; (v) improve
rural roads; (vi) improve nutrition standards and
expand awareness of family planning alternatives
and (vii) develop the project planning and
implementation capacity of local government
(prefectures, sub-prefectures and communes).
(ii) Components: The project would provide for:
(a) applied and adaptive research for semi-arid
crop development;
(b) strengthening extension support services
through:
i)   improvement of in-service training,
establishment of local demonstrations and
organization of a service network for
cropping and livestock activities;
ii)   promotion of an improved seed multipli-
cation program; a tree nursery and
distribution program for coffee, fruit and
forest trees; a program to improve soil
fertility through stall-feeding and
compost production and erosion control
measures; promotion of improved methods of
coffee plantation maintenance and
organization of pest control campaigns;
and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
iii) training for cooperative management and
technical support for agricultural credit;
(c) livestock activities, including upgrading of
local sheep and goat stock;
(d) support to the Rubilizi Training Center for
training assistant veterinarians;
(e) nutrition center activities and development of
a pilot family planning program in the project
area;
(f) rural roads construction and improvement; and
(g) monitoring and evaluation and studies.
(iii) Benefits: The project would promote:
strengthening of the support services for
agricultural and livestock activities at the farm
level; increased production of subsistence and cash
crops and of livestock; increased trade and
transportation in and out of the project area;
useful technical information from research
activities for the future development of the
semi-arid zones in Rwanda; and, over the long-term,
reduced fertility rates through family planning
efforts.
(iv) Risks: The success of the production-oriented
activities will depend on the effectiveness of
extension services in responding to farmers' needs
and in introducing new inputs (such as semi-arid
foodcrop varieties) and improved cultivation
techniques. Timing and coordination problems will
be minimized by specific agreements between
implementing agencies. Technical and financial
management of all components has been carefully
reviewed to assure clear lines of responsibility,
reporting and control. Thus, the program of
investments and the organization of project
management have been carefully considered to
minimize such risks.



(iii)
Estimated costs 1/:
Local       Foreign        Total
(US$ thousands equivalent)
Project Management                        703         3,045         3,748
Extension Activities                    2,458         2,334         4,792
Livestock Development                       82          323           405
Rubilizi Training School                    96          128           224
Research Activities                        518        1,549         2,067
Nutrition and Population                   207          667           874
Rural Road Construction                 1,573         2,437         4,010
Contingencies
Physical                                484           635         1,119
Price                                 2,946         1,388         4,334
Total                             9,067        12,506        21,573
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign        Total
(US$ millions equivalent)
IDA                                     6.8            9.5         16.3
FAC                                      -             3.0          3.0
Government                              2.3             -           2.3
Total                                 9.1           12.5         21.6
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ thousands equivalent)
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Annual:             1,200  3,050  3,250  2,500  2,500  2,500  1,300
Cumulative;         1,200  4,250  7,500 10,000 12,500 15,000 16,300
Appraisal Report:  No. 3853-RW of May 28, 1982.
Rate of Return:    16 percent on 65 percent of project costs for which
benefits have been quantified.
Map: IBRD 15961.
1/ Taxes included in project costs are negligible as all major items would
be exempt from import duties and local taxes. Project costs include an
advance from the Project Preparation Facility of about US$935,000 to
finance road-building equipment, building construction, and start-up of
the semi-arid research and family planning activities.



0
9



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
PHASE II BUGESERA GISAKA MIGONGO (RURAL SERVICES) PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit to
the Rwandese Republic for the equivalent of SDRs 14.5 million (US$16.3 million)
on standard IDA terms, to finance a Phase II Bugesera Gisaka Migongo (Rural
Services) Project. The project would be cofinanced with the French FAC (about
US$3.0 million) on a parallel basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      A report, "Memorandum on the Economy of Rwanda" (No. 1108-RW), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on July 27, 1976. Rwanda was visited by
an economic mission in February 1979 and again in November/December 1981. The
major findings of this recent mission are reflected below. Country data are
provided in Annex I.
3.      Rwanda is a small landlocked country in sub-Saharan Africa, surrounded
by Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and Zaire. It has the third highest population
density of low income countries, at 188 persons/km2 (following Bangladesh and
Sri Lanka), and its GNP per capita is among the lowest in the world, at US$200
in 1980. Rwanda's population of nearly 5.2 million in 1980 is predominantly
rural (with only 4.5 percent in urban areas), and lives in small individual
farms scattered over hilly terrain. The balance between food production and
population is precarious, as potentially arable land is scarce, foodcrop yields
are declining, and population is expanding at an estimated 3.6 percent
annually. Twice recently (1974 and 1980), Rwanda had to resort to emergency
food imports. Agriculture (coffee, tea, pyrethrum, cinchona) provides most of
the country's foreign exchange earnings. Coffee is, by far, the most important
source (62 percent) followed by mining products (20 percent), mainly cassiterite
and wolfram.  Rwanda's manufacturing base is narrow, and its growth is limited
by the small size of the market, and the lack of raw materials, marketing
facilities, entrepreneurial skills and skilled manpower.  The country,
consequently, imports petroleum products, capital goods, cement, steel,
construction materials, and virtually every other modern manufactured product.
Its merchandise trade is hampered by high transportation costs and dependence on
neighboring countries for access to the seaports at Mombasa and Dar es Salaam.
1/ Part I of this report is substantially the same as that in Report
No. P-3335-RW on the Second Education Project, considered by the Executive
Directors on June 15, 1982.



- 2 -
4.      A quantitative assessment of Rwanda's economic performance can only be
tentative because of deficiencies in the statistical data base.  Available
estimates indicate that during the period 1977-79 the rate of growth of real GDP
averaged 5 percent, but declined to about 4 percent in 1980.  The average
contribution of the agricultural sector to GDP, from 1977 to 1980, was 45
percent, and the sector's performance reflected mainly variations in foodcrop
production, which during this period accounted for 79 percent of the value added
by the sector. Foodcrop production oscillated with weather conditions, but is
estimated to have been, on average, slightly above the rate of population
growth.  The remaining 21 percent of the value added by the agricultural sector
is shared by livestock, fishing, and export crops. As a consequence of the
pressure of population on land, the cattle herd has been reduced, and thus the
contribution of livestock to the growth of the primary sector; fish production
remains very low, as there is no tradition of fish consumption. Export crops,
involving only 6 percent of Rwanda's arable land and contributing an average of
11 percent to the value added by the agricultural sector, are of crucial
importance to the economy.  Coffee is not only the principal source of foreign
exchange but also a major source of cash income to a large proportion of the
population and has accounted for a significant proportion of the Government's
budgetary revenue.
5.      The contribution of mining production to GDP averaged only 2 percent in
1977-80, and has declined in recent years. Output of cassiterite and wolfram
has stagnated, owing to low international prices aggravated recently by the
appreciation of the Rwandese franc, which is linked to the United States
dollar. Furthermore, supply of necessary fuels has at times been irregular (as
in 1979, with the closing of the Uganda border), and access to additional
deeper seams by small-scale independent miners has become increasingly
difficult.
6.      The contribution of the manufacturing sector to GDP averaged 15 percent
from 1977 to 1980.  There are indications that manufacturing has experienced
some significant real growth in recent years, principally in traditional
production (mainly of banana and sorghum beer), which is estimated at nearly
three-quarters of the value added in industry. Important also are the
agro-industries (coffee, tea, pyrethrum), sugar refining, and beer and fruit
juice production (lemon, passion-fruit etc.). Rwanda's modern manufacturing
base has grown slowly, often in response to foreign aid. Examples include a
cement plant under construction in the south, financed by China, and a match
factory financed by Japan.  The construction sector contributed, on average, 4
percent to GDP in the period 1977-80.  Its recent growth has been limited to the
construction of dwellings, mainly in Kigali (Rwanda's capital), and public
buildings.
7.      The assessment of performance of the tertiary sector is particularly
tentative, partly because of the difficulties associated with evaluating
commercial activities in the rural areas (traditional trade in coffee and
foodcrops), but also because of probable tax evasion. The data available
indicate that commerce and transportation contributed nearly 18 percent to GDP,
on average, during 1977-80. Other tertiary activities seem to have expanded in
real terms, especially public administration, whose contribution to GDP averaged
8 percent in that period.



- 3 -
8.      Traditionally, Rwanda's fiscal policies  have been prudent, and have
taken into account the variations of revenue from export taxes, notably on
coffee. As a result, current budgetary surpluses averaged 3 percent of GDP in
1977-80. The budget structure reflects the narrow revenue base, high recurrent
expenditures, and development expenditures which are contingent upon external
assistance. In 1977-80, more than 50 percent of central government revenues
came from import and export taxes, with coffee exports alone contributing 25
percent; taxes on beverages (17 percent), and on income and profits (18
percent), accounted for most of the remainder. Recurrent expenditures were
distributed mainly among Government's administrative services (25 percent),
education (24 percent), and defense (20 percent), but expenditures on
agriculture and public works have expanded faster in recent years. Budgeted
development expenditures have been particularly important in agriculture (18
percent in 1977-80), transport and communications (13 percent), education (13
percent) and other social services (16 percent).
9.        The fiscal situation, however, is being affected by a number of
unfavorable trends. Preliminary estimates indicate that in 1981, contrary to
the preceding years, increases in revenue fell short of increases in
expenditures. Coffee prices declined, and in spite of higher export volume,
budgetary receipts from this source fell. At the same time, there was a sharp
expansion in government expenditures reflecting, inter alia, the impact of the
general wage awards granted in September 1980 and the costs associated with the
addition of a new Ministry of Higher Education and the establishment of a new
legislative assembly. In an effort to expand the revenue base and increase
revenue, the Government introduced a new business tax which, however, has not
yet yielded sufficient resources to compensate for the fall in revenue from
coffee. The overall treasury position thus shifted from a surplus of Rwf 1.4
billion (US$15.1 million equivalent) in 1980 (equivalent to 1.3 percent of GDP)
to an estimated deficit of Rwf 2.1 billion (US$23.1 million equivalent) in 1981
(equivalent to about 2 percent of GDP). Even if growth in government
expenditures is slowed, continued deficits are likely in the medium-term, as
revenue from coffee is expected to remain depressed, and the possibility of
recourse to other taxes (or to increase tax rates) is limited.
10.       Conservative monetary and credit policies were followed during the
1977-80 period. Inflationary pressures have arisen mainly from supply shortages
caused by frequent disruptions of supply routes through neighboring countries,
increased international transport costs, and increased prices of imports and
domestic foodstuffs. Inflation averaged 12.5 percent per annum during 1977-80;
it peaked at 16 percent in 1979, primarily as a result of the closing of the
Uganda border, but also reflecting higher transport costs following the 1979-80
oil price rises. The inflation rate declined to 7.2 percent in 1980 and
remained at this level in 1981 as trade through Uganda was back to normal, the
prices of domestic foodstuffs did not increase, and there was a significant
slowdown in the rate of increase of import prices.
11.       Rwanda's balance of payments generally reflects coffee market
conditions, and has benefitted in recent years from significant net capital
inflows. During the period 1977 to 1980, the current account deficit averaged
U$105 million. Nevertheless, it was substantially lower in 1977 and 1979, and
higher in 1978 and 1980, in line with fluctuations in coffee export receipts.
Sustained net capital inflows led to overall balance of payments surpluses each



-4-
year, and Rwanda's gross official foreign reserves, at end-1980, were equivalent
to seven months of projected 1981 imports of goods and non-factor services.  The
decline in coffee export receipts observed in 1980 continued in 1981.
Preliminary estimates indicate that in spite of a significant net inflow of
capital, Rwanda suffered its first reserve loss in many years, bringing gross
official foreign reserves down to the equivalent of five months of projected
1982 imports of goods and non-factor services. Medium-term prospects are not
encouraging, as the terms of trade are expected to deteriorate. Because there
are no viable alternatives, in the medium-term, to the products currently
exported, export receipts are likely to increase only slightly (on the strength
of increased volumes of coffee and tea), while import payments will probably
remain at a high level, as Rwanda's import needs will increase if growth is to
be sustained.
12.       Rwanda's development plan for the period 1977-81 included as its main
priorities to increase food production, improve living standards through more
widespread access to better health care and basic social services, increase
employment and improve utilization of human resources, and strengthen the
country's external position (through reducing its dependence on coffee as the
principal source of foreign exchange earnings and its vulnerability to external
factors, such as transportation). The Government has made serious efforts
to pursue these objectives, but structural, financial, and institutional
constraints have limited the success of its policies. Particularly,
institutional weaknesses stemming from lack of skilled personnel, fragmentation
of institutional responsibilities, and poor coordination among concerned
agencies have hindered project preparation and implementation and public sector
management, and have thus contributed to the sluggishness of plan
implementation. The Government's efforts to increase agricultural production,
especially of foodcrops, have had modest results, and food supply remains
inadequate. This situation is likely to be aggravated in the medium-term, as
population is increasing rapidly. The work of the National Population Office,
recently created and still being organized, will take time to produce results.
While there has been a gradual increase in the number of health/nutrition
centers and hospital beds, health services in rural areas are still sparse and
water supply has tended to deteriorate in some rural areas. The implementation
of the 1979 education reform has been hampered by financial and administrative
constraints and by the limited number of teachers. The only significant
increases in employment have occurred in the public administration and
construction sectors. While Rwanda succeeded in diversifying somewhat its
export crops by increasing the production of tea, this did not reduce
significantly its vulnerability to volatile world market conditions.
13.       One of the 1977-81 Plan's main objectives was to reduce the country's
vulnerability to bottlenecks affecting transportation through neighboring
countries; however, improvement of internal transportation is also needed to
stimulate agricultural productivity. Rwanda's rudimentary road network has
hampered agricultural specialization and monetization, and thus the
modernization of the agricultural sector. External donors finance most of
Rwanda's infrastructure projects, and investment in roads and road maintenance
has increased in recent years. However, a large proportion of the road network
is still not passable during the rainy seasons which sometimes seriously disrupt
trade. The northern transportation corridor through Uganda and Kenya to the
port of Mombasa carries most of Rwanda's external trade. Interruptions of this
trade have had negative impacts on the economy, as during the Uganda/Tanzania



- 5 -
war in 1978/79 when the Government was forced to resort to expensive air
transport. Air Rwanda, the state-owned airline, purchased a used Boeing 707
cargo plane which has been used since July 1979 to transport all kinds of
merchandise. Kigali's airport has been equipped for all-weather operation and,
since its recent expansion, can accommodate wide body jets. It appears likely
that air transport will continue to grow in importance, given the risks of
political disruptions in the region and the prohibitively high cost of shipment
over alternative routes.
14.       External agencies have financed the largest proportion of development
expenditures in Rwanda. The principal sources of foreign assistance and their
average share during 1977-80 were Belgium (26 percent), the European Development
Fund (13 percent), the Federal Republic of Germany (9 percent), the United
Nations System (14 percent), and France (8 percent). IDA contributed over half
of the United Nations System share. Japan, Switzerland, non-governmental
organizations, Canada, and the United States account for the remainder.
External aid has been mainly in the form of technical assistance and financing
infrastructure development. Most technical assistance (58 percent) has
benefitted agriculture, education, and health care. Investment in transport and
communications accounted for about two-thirds of infrastructure financing in
1980. Together, these four sectors received nearly 62 percent of the aid
extended to Rwanda in 1980, an emphasis in line with the country's avowed
objectives and priorities.
15.       Rwanda's need for external assistance will increase in the next few
years, as its fiscal and balance of payments prospects are less favorable than
in the past, principally as a result of depressed world prices for its major
exports (coffee, tea, cassiterite and wolfram). Agricultural production,
particularly of foodcrops, is not expected to increase significantly in the
short run, as it will take time to raise yields. Significant increases in
mining production will only be possible if the financing for currently planned
investments materializes. The performance of the other sectors, which depend
heavily on imported goods, can only be maintained with further reserve losses
and/or increased net inflow of capital, and these sectors will probably compete
with food items for scarce foreign exchange. Thus, the medium-term outlook for
Rwanda is not encouraging, especially at a time when the external agencies also
have financial constraints. The country's external debt is still low. At
end-1980, the public- and publicly-guaranteed external debt amounted to US$170
million, or 14 percent of GDP, and the debt service ratio was equivalent to only
3.2 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services. Hence, there remains
considerable scope for further borrowing. Nevertheless, given the poverty of
the country, the vulnerability of its economy and its poor medium-term
prospects, external funds should continue to be provided mostly in the form of
grants or loans at highly concessionary terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA 1/
16.     Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and initially focused on the
improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agriculture
production. Rwanda has received seventeen IDA credits totalling US$171.4
million, of which five (totalling US$69.0 million) were for roads, six (US$64.3
1/ Part II of this report is substantially the same as that in Report No.
No. P-3335-RW on the Second Education Project, considered by the Executive
Directors on June 15, 1982.



million) for agriculture, two (US$9.2 million) for DFC projects, two (US$18.0
million reduced to US$16.4 million) for education, one (US$7.5 million) for
telecommunications and one (US$5.0 million) for technical assistance. There
have been no Bank loans. An IFC loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory was signed
in 1976; a second IFC loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitment of up
to US$60,000 to expand the tea factory were signed in September 1980. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits, IFC investments and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
17.     The first three highway projects are completed and totally disbursed.  A
fourth credit for a highway maintenance project (Credit 769-RW), which became
effective in August 1978, is three-quarters completed and is progressing
satisfactorily. A US$25.9 million credit was approved May 20, 1982 for a Fifth
Highway Project.
18.     The first agricultural development (Mutara) project was completed in
July 1979 and funds have now been completely disbursed (see also para. 34). A
second credit of US$8.8 million, which supports the second phase of a long-term
development for the Mutara region, was declared effective on May 30, 1980, but
has experienced start-up problems due to difficulties in recruiting technical
assistance. The Cinchona Project (US$1.8 million) is nearing completion and has
progressed satisfactorily; the Bugesera/Gisaka/Mingongo mixed farming and rural
development project (BGM I) is expected to be completed in December 1982.
Construction, procurement and budgeting are proceeding satisfactorily under this
project, though the results of foodcrop and plant improvement components are
below appraisal estimates due to a lack of appropriate technical packages for
the relatively dry project area. Given this, the proposed BGM II project
emphasizes research for semi-arid crop development. A project to support
reforestation programs in Kigali, Butare and Gisenyi Prefectures (IDA Credit
1039-RW for US$21.0 million) became effective on November 11, 1981; the project
includes a study of renewable energy sources for Rwanda. A US$15.0 million
credit for a coffee improvement/foodcrops project in the Lake Kivu region became
effective January 18, 1982; all staff have been recruited, the first year
extension program has been completed successfully, and research activities have
commenced. A credit for an education project (US$8.0 million) became effective
in 1975; physical implementation has been complicated by procurement problems
(para. 19 below). The first credit of US$4.0 million to the Rwandese
Development Bank (BRD) has now been fully committed. BRD's performance under
the credit has been highly satisfactory. A second credit of US$5.2 million to
BRD was signed on July 13, 1979, and became effective on January 4, 1980. A
credit for a telecommunications project (US$7.5 million) which aims at reducing
Rwanda's geographic isolation from other countries and at improving internal
telecommunications facilities, became effective July 7, 1981, and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
19.     In fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements for Rwanda totalled US$28.9
million compared to new commitments of US$42.4 million. In the same period, the
average annual disbursement rate (ratio of change in disbursements to
undisbursed balance) was 20 percent; this is about average for countries of the
Eastern Africa Region. While disbursement performance in general is
satisfactory, notable difficulties have arisen in the case of the First
Education Project. The lack of acceptable record keeping has impeded the
processing of disbursement requests.  However, following a UNESCO-assisted final
inspection and evaluation mission for the worshops financed under the project,



- 7 -
disbursements hasve resumed. Implementation of the Second Education Project
approved June 15, 1982 should be less affected by similar weaknesses given the
familiarity with Bank Group procedures now acquired in the Ministry of Primary
and Secondary Education, where in addition, a new and more positive managerial
climate now prevails since the Ministry was reorganized about a year ago.
20.     One of the major constraints on Rwanda's development is the shortage of
technical/managerial capacity. This affects all sectors and inhibits project
preparation and implementation. Intensive technical assistance and on-the-job
training of Rwandese staff are therefore a salient feature of the Bank's program
for Rwanda, either under individual projects in the various sectors or through
the recently approved Technical Assistance Project.
21.     For the future, the primary emphasis of Bank operations will remain on
rural development, the main objective being to increase food production as well
as export crops, while maintaining soil fertility. A major emphasis will also
be placed on the development of human resources, focusing on population control
and support to basic education and skills training to improve agricultural
productivity, provide skilled manpower, and influence attitudes on the
population issue. Further investment is also justified for infrastructure and,
in particular, transportation to reduce the country's isolation and provide
incentives to further intensification of agriculture as well as increased
specialization and diversification through better marketing. Another area
requiring our special attention is renewable energy to lessen the demand for
fuel imports and mitigate their impact on the balance of payments. A study of
renewable energy sources is being financed under IDA credit 1039-RW (para. 18).
The proposed BGM II rural development project includes a population/nutrition
component, the Association's first operational effort in the critical area of
population education and planning (para. 49). In highways, the Bank recently
approved a credit to participate in the financing of the Butare-Cyangugu road.
This project is designed to open up the southern region of Rwanda towards Zaire
and Burundi and support both the forestry (FY80) and the coffee
improvement/foodcrops (FY81) projects. A second education project, approved
this past June, addresses clearcut manpower needs and supports the training of
middle level technicians and managers; the project also includesselective
support for basic education through preservice and inservice training of
teachers. It is expected that the Bank will continue to support industrial
development through the BRD.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
22.          Rwanda, which has a traditional and overwhelmingly rural economy,
is largely self-sufficient in basic foods, but there is serious doubt about the
ability of agricultural production to keep up with the rapidly growing
population. Almost all agricultural activities are carried out by smallholders
on plots averaging about one hectare in size using traditional cultivation
methods and tools.
23.          Agricultural and Livestock Production.  The variation in elevation
and climate enables a wide range of crops to be grown. Subsistence crops
include beans, sorghum, bananas, sweet potatoes, groundnuts and cassava.
Foodcrops grown at higher elevations are peas, potatoes, maize and beans. About
95 percent of the cultivated land is planted with foodcrops, and although



- 8 -
climatic conditions allow two crops a year in most areas, soil fertility is
declining and crop yields are poor.  Six percent of the cultivated land is
planted with export crops, mainly coffee, tea, pyrethrum and cinchona.  The size
of the national cattle herd has been declining; in 1980 it was estimated at
about 630,000. Milk production is low, estimated at about 66 million liters in
1980; with one-third going for human consumption. Meat production was estimated
at 10,000 tons carcass weight in 1980. The numbers of goats and sheep, which
provide most of the meat consumed in rural areas, were estimated in 1980 at
770,000 and 270,000 respectively.
24.           Forestry.  Rwanda's forest resources are estimated to cover
approximately 170,000 ha, or roughly 6 percent of the total land area.  This
resource is being depleted at an estimated rate of 5 percent per annum.
Sporadic Government tree-planting programs are not sufficient to keep up with
growing demand for wood or to provide adequate soil protection against erosion
in critical zones. The marked decline in wood available for fuel and charcoal
has resulted in the increased use of agricultural residues for fuel.
25.          Marketing and Prices.  Most foodcrop production is consumed on the
farm. An estimated 33 percent is marketed, mainly locally on traditional
markets. Beans, sorghum, peas, and potatoes are the principal foodcrops traded
inter-regionally; the prices of these foodcrops are determined by the market.
The National Grain Marketing Organization of Rwanda (GRENARWA), a
USAID-supported marketing parastatal, intervenes in the marketing of beans and
sorghum in an effort to stabilize prices of these staples. However, the volume
of foodcrop marketing presently handled by GRENARWA (estimated at 5 percent of
total marketed production in beans and sorghum) is not sufficient for GRENARWA
to have a major impact on price stabilization. Banana beer is the most
widely-traded item in Rwanda, and the most readily available source of cash in
the rural communities. Coffee is collected by traders licensed by the Agency
for Industrial Crops of Rwanda - Coffee (OCIR-Cafe). Most cattle are sold in
small rural markets or in Kigali and Butare. Official beef prices are
established by the Ministry of National Economy but there is no regular
enforcement. The number of cattle slaughtered at the Kigali slaughter house has
increased steadily in recent years from about 7,000 head in 1975 to about 13,000
in 1980. The market for sheep and goats has also increased significantly.
There is an important and growing export of cattle to neighboring countries.
26.           Development Constraints, Prospects and Objectives.  The three major
objectives of Rwanda's Third Five-Year Plan (1982-86) are (i) to increase
agricultural productivity through erosion control, diffusion of selected seeds
and integration of livestock and agriculture; (ii) to increase employment, and
(iii) to achieve a satisfactory balance between foodcrop and export crop
production. These objectives are limited above all by the shortage of
cultivable land. Increases in foodcrop production over the past decade have
been largely achieved through extension of cultivation to poorer quality land
previously devoted to pastoral and forestry uses; this alternative is almost
exhausted. Intensification efforts in the future will require particular
attention to erosion control and soil fertility. Agricultural research in
Rwanda has demonstrated that yields can be increased by using improved seeds, by
intercropping bananas with pulses, and by applying soil conservation
techniques. In general, however, much more work needs to be done in identifying
improved varieties and in introducing changes within the traditional farming
system. The budget for the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
remains small in comparison to the needs of this sector. The combined



- 9 -
development and ordinary budgets for the Ministry represented only about
7 percent of the total government budget in 1981. Existing logistic services
need strengthening, project planning and implementation require greater
coordination, monitoring and feedback. Improved statistics collection, wider
dissemination of research findings and monitoring of expenditures, are all
essential to strengthening the Ministry's capacity to direct development
efforts. To date, there has been a lack of effective coordination and
monitoring of donor-financed projects. As a result of this situation, many
projects remain isolated and important experience and results are not efficently
disseminated. Some measures have been taken recently to strengthen project
monitoring and data collection within the Ministry; however, overall planning
and coordination need to be strengthened in order to improve efficiency in the
allocation of resources. A Technical Assistance Project, designed to strengthen
the Ministry of Plan's capacity to improve interministerial coordination as well
as planning and budgeting, was approved by the Executive Directors in March
1982.
Government Services
27.           The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for
virtually all activities related to agriculture and livestock in Rwanda. It
operates a Selected Seed Service (SSS) and is the supervisory organization for
six autonomous parastatal companies. The Ministry has over 2,000 staff members,
most of whom are field extension workers (about 1,500) or veterinary field staff
(about 400), operating in all the prefectures and communes.
28.           Agricultural Research.  The Agricultural Research Institute of
Rwanda (ISAR) is headquartered at Rubona, and is responsible for agricultural
and livestock research. ISAR has been supported mainly by Belgian aid; it has
received limited funds from the International Development Research Center
(IRDC-Canada). The Swiss are providing assistance in forestry. The
IDA-financed Lake Kivu Coffee and Foodcrop Project (Credit 1126-RW) is
supporting coffee and some foodcrop research. Up to now, ISAR's program has
lacked both socio-economic studies of farm systems and adaptive trials on
farmers' fields. The Bank (RMEA) is currently assisting the Government to
organize a seminar in December 1982 to evaluate the present status of research
in Rwanda and to define the scope of future efforts. One of the intended
results of the seminar would be the identification of a national research
project for possible Bank or other donor financing in early 1983, to define
research priorities and to address the need to improve the links between
research and extension and to strengthen the management and organisation of
research in Rwanda.
29.          The Selected Seed Service.  Rwanda's foodcrop seed selection and
multiplication service, the Service des Semences Selectionnees (SSS), was
created in 1971. ISAR provides foundation seed which is multiplied by the SSS
in five centers located in different ecological zones. The varieties currently
distributed (mainly beans, sorghum, maize, peas and vegetables) have been
selected to improve yields with low or no fertilizer inputs and to be tolerant
or resistant to the main diseases. The objective of the service is to produce
selected seed and supply Rwanda's 10 prefectures and 143 communes for further
multiplication and the production of commercial seed. At present, however,
SSS reaches only about 4 percent of the potential users. A recent FAO study has
proposed a program for SSS which would address critical problems of financing,
staffing and organization of seed multiplication and seed distribution at the
communal level.



- 10 -
30.         Agricultural Training.  There are three institutions responsible for
post-secondary agricultural training: the Agronomy Faculty of the National
University of Rwanda at Butare, which trains agricultural engineers and
veterinary assistants; the School of Agriculture, in Butare, which operates a
four-year post-secondary course; and the Nyagahanga School in Byumba Prefecture
which trains female agricultural technicians. In January 1980, the Rubilizi
Training Center near Kigali (para. 47) began a two-year program for training
lower-level assistant veterinarians. This center was financed under the BGM I
Project. The first class of 56 students graduated in January 1982.
31.         Rural Credit.  Credit to farmers is very limited at present.  Some
credit is channelled through the People's Banks (Banques Populaires)which are
supported primarily by Swiss technical assistance and provide an important
channel for rural savings. These Banks make loans to cooperatives and
individuals for working-capital needs and other small investments for housing
improvement, transport, and a few agricultural and livestock inputs. An
experimental credit program was begun under the BGM I Project and would be
transferred to the Banques Populaires under this project (para. 45).
32.         Family Planning Services.  In recognition of Rwanda's high
population growth and limited resources, the Government has recently undertaken
to address the population problem. A National Population Office (ONAPO) was
created in mid-1981, and Government is seeking the assistance of international
organizations in developing programs for family planning education, training and
service delivery. ONAPO has a broad mandate to define a national population
policy, to initiate demographic research and to coordinate the implementation of
family planning programs.
33.         Local Administration.  Local administrative structure is relatively
well developed in Rwanda and is increasingly being used to channel development
resources to the rural population.  Rwanda's ten prefectures are each headed by
a prefect and divided into communes (usually 10 - 16 per prefecture), headed by
a bourgemestre.  Each of the 143 communes is divided into sectors (10-14 per
commune), and each sector is subdivided into cells, comprising 50 to 60
families.  Each Rwandese adult man and woman is required to work a half day per
week on a community, or umuganda, project. Projects are selected by the
communal council and include construction of feeder roads, bridges, schools,
work on communal demonstration plots, tree planting, and the installation of
drinking water systems. Participation in umuganda activities is not uniform,
but in areas where the bourgemestre is dynamic, achievements have been
substantial.
Previous Bank Lending for Agriculture
34.         To date, the Bank Group has financed six agricultural projects in
Rwanda.  The first phase of the Mutara Agricultural Development Project Credit
439-RW for US$3.8 million) has been completed. A Project Completion Report was
prepared in August 1980 and a PPAR issued in June 1981. They concluded that
even though the project did not result in the expected increase in agricultural
production, substantial achievements had been realized in the areas of
infrastructure development and in experience acquired by Rwandese staff in
project management. Experience gained through implementation of this and other
projects was taken into account in designing the proposed project; notably,
proposed technical interventions are fewer and simpler, infrastructure
development has been reduced to a minimum, systematic farm-level monitoring and



- 11 -
feedback has been introduced and implementation arrangements have been
simplified. The Cinchona Project, supported by an IDA Credit for US$1.8
million, is nearing completion; implementation has been satisfactory. An IDA
Credit of US$8.9 million was approved in June 1979 to support group ranch
development and settlement under the second phase of the Mutara Agricultural and
Livestock Development Project (Credit 937-RW). Settlement of cattle owners has
proceeded in an orderly way and pasture production has been improved, but
destocking activities and credit recovery have been disappointing due to lack of
clear policies and enforcement mechanisms. The Integrated Forestry and
Livestock Development Project (Credit 1039-RW for US$21 million) and the Lake
Kivu Coffee Improvement and Foodcrop Project (Credit 1126-RW for US$15 million)
became effective in late 1981 and early 1982, respectively; technical assistance
and key local staff have been recruited and start-up activities are progressing
satisfactorily.
The Bugesera Gisaka Migongo I Project
35.         The first phase Bugesera Gisaka Migongo Project, BGM I (Credit
668-RW), was approved in late 1976 and became effective in November 1977. BADEA
and FAC co-financed the project with IDA. It was a five-year program designed
to develop essential infrastructure and improve rural services in the Bugesera
region and parts of Gisaka Migongo. Specifically, the project contained
provisions for crop and livestock extension activities and training, the
establishment of two steer fattening ranches and extension of a breeding ranch,
the establishment of two regional development centers with training facilities
and numerous civil works, including water supply infrastructure, staff housing,
feeder roads, three schools and six health centers. The first phase is expected
to be completed in December 1982.
36.         Project Performance.  Systematic implementation of extension
activities did not begin until 1981; there had been staffing difficulties and
the expatriate agronomists spent a disproportionate amount of time supervising
construction works. Despite these factors, tree nursery activities were
successfully organized by 1981; soy beans, new cropping patterns, a credit
program and measures to protect farmers' plots from erosion were also
successfully introduced. Implementation of the livestock program was hampered
by lack of skilled technicians and adequate staff training. The area available
for ranching was overestimated at appraisal; because of this and of difficulties
in providing water and the limited market for high quality beef, the Gako and
Nasho fattening ranches proved commercially unviable; by contrast, the Rusumo
breeding ranch appears to be commercially viable under proper management. The
building component of the rural infrastructure program, expanded during
implementation to meet additional housing needs, was efficiently carried out.
Only 10 percent of the targets set at appraisal for construction of feeder roads
was achieved as the execution of this activity is beyond the capacity of the
Ministry of Agriculture. Appraisal targets for the development of water
supplies in eastern Bugesera are expected to be met by the end of 1982. No
significant research was carried out under this project, with the exception of
some limited trials on regional center plots. Only one training specialist was
recruited (not two as envisaged at appraisal) and arrived two years after credit
effectiveness. The Rubilizi Training Center, originally designed for training



- 12 -
project veterinary personnel, was transformed into a national center for
training veterinary extension officers; the first class graduated in January
1982, but the impact of the two-year program will not be felt until the
mid-1980s. Regular follow-up of training for communal extension personnel began
in mid 1981. The Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), established by
Presidential Decree under BGM I, has been responsible for project implementation
and has proved relatively effective as an implementation, coordination and
management tool. Project activities were planned and carried out in accordance
with annual work plans prepared largely by the Project Unit in Kigali and
approved by the PCC and IDA. In appraising the second project, project
activities have been planned to consolidate actions begun under the first
(development of rural services, including crop and livestock extension and
agriculture training; agro-veterinary support centers; feeder roads; health
centers) and to concentrate on the development of services for the rural
population of the project area. In addition, the proposed project would
initiate certain other activities, such as semi-arid and farm systems research,
road improvement and family planning services, which would contribute in the
medium and long-term to increasing productivity and living standards.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.         The proposed project was prepared in 1980 by the Studies Bureau of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock as a follow-up to the BGM I project.
The Regional Mission in East Africa (RMEA) was involved in discussions on a
possible second phase since 1979, and assisted with the preparation. An
appraisal mission visited Rwanda in May-June 1981 and post-appraisal discussions
were held in Kigali in October/November of the same year. Negotiations were
held in Washington from May 5 to 10, 1982; the Rwandese delegation was headed by
H. E. Frederic Nzamurambaho, Minister of Agriculture and Livestock. A Credit
and Project Summary, highlighting the main features of the project, is at the
beginning of this report. A detailed description of the project components is
in the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3853-RW), dated May 28, 1982, being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the
Credit are summarized in Annex III.
Project Area
38.         The proposed Project would be implemented in the same areas as the
BGM I project. These areas total approximately 3,000 km2 (Map IBRD 15961),
covering three communes in the Bugesera region and three in Gisaka Migongo;
their combined population was about 310,000 inhabitants in 1980. It is
estimated that more than 50 percent of the inhabitants are settlers recently
arrived from other, more densely peopled parts of Rwanda and that 50 percent of
the current population is under 10 years old. The Bugesera and Gisaka Migongo
regions are the driest zone of Rwanda and ground water reserves are limited.
Only about 35 percent of the project area has soil conditions and adequate
rainfall to support normal cropping activities.   Approximately 20 percent of
the land is under forest, and approximately 13 percent has little or no
productive potential.   Recent migrants to the area have brought with them
agricultural practices and cropping patterns poorly adapted to these



- 13 -
conditions.  Present crop production is mainly for subsistence.  The road
network serving the north of Gisaka is relatively well developed, but elsewhere
in the project area, roads are few and impassable during the rainy months.
Infrastructure is still limited, and few communes can afford to support even
minimal services.
Objectives and Description of the Project
39.         The proposed project would be the second phase of a long-term
development program for the Bugesera and the Gisaka Migongo regions. It would
consolidate certain actions begun under the first project which was designed as
a five-year program (1977-1982) to develop essential infrastructure and improve
rural services in the communes of the project area. In addition, the proposed
project defines new interventions, particularly on semi-arid crops, small
livestock promotion and soil conservation activities for the semi-arid zones;
its primary objectives are thus to: (i) carry out research trials and introduce
new cropping techniques and varieties for the semi-arid areas; (ii) intensify
cultivation of cash and foodcrops in areas of average and above average
potential;(iii) promote conservation to prevent loss of soil fertility; (iv)
integrate crop and livestock activities on the farm plot; (v) promote the
introduction of small stock where appropriate; (vi) improve rural roads; and
(vii) improve nutrition standards and expanded awareness of family planning
alternatives.
40.         The proposed project would consist of:
(a) applied and adaptive research for semi-arid crop development;
(b) strengthening extension support services through:
i) improvement of in-service training, establishment of local
demonstrations and organization of a service network for
cropping and livestock activities;
ii) promotion of an improved seed multiplication program; a tree
nursery and distribution program for coffee, fruit and forest
trees; a program to improve soil fertility through
stall-feeding and compost production and erosion control
measures; promotion of improved methods of coffee plantation
maintenance and organization of pest control campaigns; and
iii) training for cooperative management and technical support for
agricultural credit;
(c) livestock activities: support for the Rusumo breeding ranch, a
program for upgrading local sheep and goat stock;
(d) support to the Rubilizi Training Center for training assistant-level
veterinarians;
(e) nutrition center activities and development of a pilot family
planning program in the project area;



- 14 -
(f) rural roads construction and improvement; and
(g) monitoring and evaluation and studies.
Detailed Features
Semi-arid Crop Development and Farm Systems Research
41.         The proposed project would support ISAR's research activities
(para. 28) at ISAR's Karama Station in the Bugesera region. While a research
program focused mainly on foodcrops has been carried out at this station for
over fifteen years, trials have been based exclusively on the more fertile
alluvial soils adjacent to the lake, and not on the semi-arid plateau soils.
The research program would aim to: (i) develop improved and more
disease-resistant varieties for the major crops (bananas, sorghum, beans,
cassava, sweet potatoes, groundnuts and soy) (ii) identify improved agronomic
practices consistent with the capabilities and circumstances of local farmers
for the major existing crops; (iii) develop land management and cropping systems
to increase or maintain soil fertility; (iv) test combinations of improved
foodcrop and cultural practices on farmers' plots; and (v) provide training for
Rwandese research staff in areas related to the agronomic and farm systems
program to be carried out at Karama.  The signing of a contract (satisfactory to
IDA) between ISAR and the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture in
Ibadan, Nigeria (IITA) regarding the implementation of the research component is
a condition of credit effectiveness (Sections 3.07(a) and 6.01(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement). IITA would provide technical assistance for this
component.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that ISAR, in consultation
with the IITA research specialists, would prepare a five-year work plan to be
submitted within three months of the research specialists' arrival in Rwanda for
IDA for approval.  In addition, ISAR would submit, by September 15 of each year,
a progress report covering the 12-month period ending September 30 and a
detailed annual work plan for the following calendar year (Section 3.08 and
Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement).
42.         Extension Services and Training.  There are presently about 100
agricultural and livestock extension agents working in the Project area and some
20 staff working in the agro-veterinary centers (PAVs). Project activities
would focus on providing technical training and logistic support for these
personnel. Eighteen sectors, identified as the most responsive to innovation,
have been selected for intensive assistance.  To ensure adequate provision of
extension services, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government
would, over the project period (i) maintain the number of extension agents and
other project personnel at the staffing level in January 1982, and (ii) continue
to provide one agronomist and one veterinarian per commune in the project area
(Section 3.03 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement). Foodcrop and cashcrop
extension themes would focus on introduction of improved varieties and improved
cultural practices, erosion control, preservation of soil fertility,
intensification of foodcrop, fruit tree and coffee production, reforestation and
livestock management. Livestock extension activities would revolve around local
groups of livestock farmers.  Veterinary products are presently subsidized.  To
institute a cost recovery mechanism, assurances were obtained at negotiations



- 15 -
that Government would, (i) by September 1, 1982, submit to IDA a detailed plan
and procedures for the progressive increase of changes applicable to all
veterinary medicines dispensed in Rwanda and (ii) take all necessary measures to
ensure that livestock owners would be charged as follows: 70 percent of the
full cost of such medicines beginning January 1, 1983; 80 percent beginning
January 1, 1984; 90 percent beginning January 1, 1985; and 100 percent beginning
January 1, 1986 (Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement). The
Training programs would be carried out to upgrade the skills of the extension
staff, the staff of the regional centers and the PAVs, as well as the technical
staff of the communes in the project area. Training programs for extension
staff would be organized regionally by the Regional Training Director assisted
by an internationally-recruited Training Extension Specialist stationed in each
of the two regional centers. The prefectorial and regional agronomists would
assist with the training of the comune agronomists and veterinary officers, the
PAVs staff, and the Sector-level extension agents. INADES-Rwanda, a
Jesuit-supported organization, which has developed excellent teaching materials
in the local language, would collaborate with project staff in preparing and
conducting short courses for extension and selected other communal staff.
43.         Production and distribution of selected foodcrop seeds and
cuttings is a major objective of the extension program. Two multiplication
centers, one in each region, would be used for the first multiplication. Seeds
to be multiplied include soy beans, maize, beans and groundnuts. Assurances
were obtained that Government would, by September 15, 1983, establish prices for
selected seeds produced under the project which would allow recovery of the
production and distribution costs of such seeds, provided that these prices are
sufficiently attractive to encourage farmers to buy the seeds (Section 3.06 (a)
of the Development Credit Agreement). Due to the critical shortage of fuelwood
in most of the project area, a systematic program would be developed to provide
additional treecrop material to farmers; tree seedlings would be distributed
free of charge.  The coffee improvement program to replace dead or unproductive
trees in existing plantations would consist of the production and distribution
of about 300,000 seedlings per year. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that OCIR-Cafe would continue to provide adequate quantities of pesticides to
the project area at a minimum of the 1981 levels (Section 3.06 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement). Investments would include costs associated with
the production of seedlings and a small revolving fund for the sale of saws and
pruning tools to farmers.
44.         Measures would be taken to control soil erosion and soil degradation
which has resulted from a combination of overgrazing and lack of effective
anti-erosion measures. Extension agents would continue to work with farmers to
establish contour bunds. In addition to assisting farmers to piant small family
woodlots, the project staff, working with communal leaders, would organize the
reforestation of about 30 ha per year with paid labor.
45.          Assistance to farmer associations begun under the BGM I project
would be continued with increased emphasis on management and training. At
present, there are about ten formal cooperatives in the Gisaka Migongo region
and none in the Bugesera region, but there are close to 100 farmers'
associations. Project staff efforts would be concentrated on introducing simple



- 16 -
management techniques appropriate to activities of the cooperatives and farmers'
associations. To support increased demand by local farmers, the proposed
project would assist with expansion of Banques Populaires lending operations
into agricultural investments. Local savings deposits of the Banques Populaires
are adequate to finance a modest investment program in the project area.
Project extension staff, with assistance from regional finance and accounting
staff, would provide technical support for credit promotion; there would be no
other specific investments associated with this program.
46.         Livestock.  The Rusomo breeding ranch was expanded under the first
phase of the BGM project. With pasture improvements and purchase of additional
breeding stock to be completed under the project by the end of 1985, the ranch's
capacity could be increased from its present level of about 2,300 animals to its
maximum potential of about 3,500. With a herd of this size, the ranch, if well
managed, could be expected to generate revenues sufficient to cover its
operating costs (including depreciation).  The genetic upgrading of goats will
be centered at ISAR Karama, and of sheep, at ISAR Rubona. It is expected that
by 1984, project staff would be able to launch a sheep breeding program based at
Nasho (para. 36), and funds have been provided for this activity to purchase
300 locally-selected breeding stock from ISAR's flock, veterinary supplies,
salaries and associated transport costs.
47.          The Rubilizi Training Center (para. 30) for veterinary staff was
established under the Ministry of Agriculture in 1979, and financed with funds
from BGM I project. It is the only school of its kind in Rwanda, with a unique
training curriculum and methodology geared specifically for the requirements of
veterinary extension work. The first class of 56 students graduated in January
1982 and is being placed in the BGM and other development projects to replace
underqualified veterinary assistants. Funds under the proposed project would
finance costs associated with curriculum modifications recommended by the recent
commission of the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education and, excluding
teachers' salaries, of Rubilizi through 1984. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the Government would take all financial, administrative and
pedagogical action necessary to assure that during the execution of the proposed
project, Rubilizi would continue to educate students at least at the level
reached in January 1982, in terms of quality and quantity (Section 4.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement).
48.          The nutrition centers in the project area would be more
systematically integrated into general project training and agricultural
extension activities. Funds would be provided for the construction of four new
nutrition centers and essential repairs to a limited number of the existing
centers. Nutrition centers would be assisted to strengthen and expand their
existing programs in: (i) agriculture, by introducing wider use of selected
seeds and improved cropping techniques; (ii) small livestock, particularly
rabbit, sheep and goat breeding activities; (iii) family planning education, by
supporting training for center personnel and providing teaching materials; and
(iv) family water supply, providing the cement for small, domestic cisterns
constructed by farmers under the direction of center personnel.



- 17 -
49.         Pilot Family Planning . Under the proposed project, pilot
activities in the project zone would aim to assist ONAPO to provide for the
first time in rural areas, family planning service delivery and information
dessemination. To this end, an internationally-recruited family planning
specialist would provide, on an intermittant basis over 3 years, 14 man-months
of technical assistance in project implementation and evaluation. In
particular, the consultant would help ONAPO conduct baseline and follow-up
surveys in the component area to measure changes in family planning knowledge,
attitude and use. After appropriate training, existing personnel of the
Ministry of Health would provide family planning services, and personnel of the
Ministry of Social Affairs would carry out educational activities. The
component would also finance the training of community outreach workers to
promote family planning, the construction of a family health center at Kibungo
Hospital and short-term consultants for the development of educational materials
and monitoring. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Ministry of
Health would provide the services of one doctor and one nurse-midwife at Kibungo
hospital and one nurse's aide each at the Mutendeli and Rukira dispensaries in
the project zone (Section 3.03 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement), and
(ii) the family planning specialist would have experience and qualifications
satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement).
50.         Feeder Roads.  At present, trade in the project area is restricted
by the poor state of the roads (para. 13). Under the project, a program to
improve and extend the feeder roads in the two regions would be carried out.
One road brigade would be financed to work in Bugesera for two years and Gisaka
Migongo for three years. To avoid difficulties encountered under BGM I (para.
36), all road works would be carried out by the Ministry of Public Works.
Investments would be for equipment and materials, costs of labor and supervisory
staff, spare parts and fuel. It would be a condition of disbursement for all
expenditures on building construction and the rural road component that IDA
approve a letter of understanding between the Ministry of Public Works and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock defining the management responsibilities
for the road building component and all other project building construction
(Section 3.07 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
51.         Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring of extension activities and
their impact on farmers' attitudes, practices and their agricultural and
livestock productivity would be established as a permanent project activity, and
the resulting evaluations reviewed regularly. A monitoring and evaluation
specialist would be recruited under the project to design appropriate baseline
and follow-up surveys and to train a small team to carry out regular monitoring
functions. This specialist would be based in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock. Key indicators for project impact would be defined and surveys would
test for variations in the sectors receiving intensified assistance (para. 42).
Short-term consultants would be hired to conduct a baseline nutritional survey
in 1983 and follow-up surveys in 1985 and 1987. A technical land use study for
the southern Bugesera-Cyohoha area would be financed under the project. During
negotiations, the terms of reference for the Bugesera-Cyohoha study were
discussed and assurances obtained that the terms of reference, consultants and
the contracts for this study would be submitted to IDA for approval (Section
3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement). Employment of consultants would be
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.  Project staff would prepare a Project



- 18 -
Completion Report assessing the progress and impact of project activities and
submit it to IDA not later than six months after the project Closing Date.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (Section 3.10 (e) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
52.         Total project costs are estimated at about US$21.6 million, of which
about 58 percent, or about US$12.5 million, represent foreign exchange costs.
Project costs were estimated as of January 1982. A physical contingency of 15
percent on construction and civil works, 5 percent on staff costs, training and
general services and supplies, and 10 percent on all other costs was applied to
reflect uncertainties in the detailed scope of project investments. Price
contingencies were calculated on the following basis: local costs at 15 percent
per annum for 1982 to 1987; foreign exchange costs at the rate of 8.5 percent
per annum in 1982, 7.5 percent per annum for 1983 through 1985 and 6 percent per
annum thereafter. Taxes included in project costs are negligible, since all
major items would be exempt from import duties and local taxes.
53.         Financing of the project costs would be shared by the Government of
Rwanda, FAC, and IDA in the respective proportions of 10.5, 14 and 75.5
percent. The proposed IDA Credit of SDRs 14.5 million (US$16.3 million
equivalent) would finance about 75.5 percent of total project costs, including
about 76 percent of foreign exchange costs and about 75 percent (US$6.8 million
equivalent) of local costs. The Government of Rwanda's contribution would
consist primarily of local salaries. Government would pass on the proceeds of
the IDA Credit and its own contribution to the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock, the ONAPO, and the Ministry of Public Works. The contribution of the
FAC would finance the salaries, travel, and local support of three technical
assistants for 5 years, 15 staffmonths of a financial advisor, 5 vehicles, and
foreign exchange costs of veterinary supplies and agricultural inputs. The
average staffmonth cost (including salary, fees, travel) for long-term
specialists is estimated to be between US$6,500 and US$8,000. The average total
staffmonth cost for short-term consultants, including salary, fees and travel,
is estimated at about US$9,000. An advance from the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) of about U$935,000 will finance road-building equipment, building
construction, and start-up of the semi-arrid research and family planning
activities. In order to assist the Government in pre-financing expenditures
reimbursable under the IDA credit, a revolving fund, similar to that under the
first phase project, would be maintained. An amount of US$800 thousand
equivalent (equal to about four months of disbursements less those items to be
disbursed for directly by IDA) would be financed under the proposed project and
established in a project account in a commercial bank.   During negotiations,
agreements were reached on the terms and conditions for the operation of and
accounting for the revolving fund (Section 2.02(c)-(h) of the Development Credit
Agreement).
Implementation
54.         Project Management.  The proposed project would be carried out over
a five-year period. Responsibilities for overall implementation and
coordination would continue to rest with the Project Coordination Committee
(PCC--para. 36) established under BGM I. The PCC would delegate day-to-day
project implementation responsibilities to the two Regional Directors. Local
authorities would participate in the project through the Regional Development



- 19 -
Committees to be set up in each region. The Bridges and Roads Department of the
Ministry of Public Works would carry out the rural roads improvement program.
ISAR would manage the applied research program, and ONAPO, with the Ministry of
Social Affairs and Community Development and the Ministry of Health, would
implement the pilot family planning activities. Responsibility for
implementation would be decentralized to the regional centers under the proposed
project. During a transitional period of no longer than two years, the post of
Project Coordinator would be maintained, and the Posts of Project Financial
Director and Livestock Coordinator would remain centralized in Kigali. The role
of the Project Coordinator during the transitional period would be to ensure
that the implementation of project activities conforms to the detailed annual
plans (para. 55). By end-1984, it is envisaged that the Kigali bureau would be
eliminated and a Financial Director and Livestock Coordinator would be appointed
to each of the two regional centers.
55.     Implementation of all project activities would be carried out on the
basis of detailed annual work plans and budgets approved by IDA. Separate
annual work plans would be required from the Ministry of Public Works (road
component), ONAPO (pilot family planning program), ISAR (research component) and
BGM II project management (extension, livestock, nutrition and Rubilizi).
Approval of the work plans for each fiscal year during project execution is a
condition of disbursement (Schedule 1, para. 5-c of the Development Credit
Agreement). The annual plans for all extension, livestock and nutrition center
activities in the Bugesera and Gisaka Migongo regions would be prepared by the
Director of each Regional Center, with assistance, where necessary, of support
staff in the Kigali project bureau. Annual plans would be submitted to the
Project Coordinating Committee by early August of each year. The content and
essential criteria for IDA approval of the annual work plans were discussed
during negotiations and assurances obtained that the annual work plans and
budgets would be sumitted to IDA for approval by September 15 of each year
beginning in 1982 (Section 3.04 and Schedule 4 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
56.     Local Staff.  Most of the key management staff were trained under the
first project and assumed full management responsibility in mid-1981. Technical
and support staff for activities to be continued under the proposed second
project are either in place or would be recruited during 1982. The number of
local staff by component is as follows: for project management (i.e. Kigali
coordination bureau 9; Bugesera and Gisaka Migongo Regional Centers, about 40
each), 89 staff; for extension activities, 188 staff; for livestock ranches and
goat and sheep promotion, 16 staff; for the Rubilizi Training Center, 20 staff;
for research, 10 staff (not including existing staff at Karama Station); for
nutrition and family planning, about 30 staff; and for rural roads, about 60
staff plus laborers. In total, about 415 Rwandese staff, 380 for the full five
years, would be involved in project implementation. The costs of about 150 of
these staff are considered non-incremental and, therefore, are not included in
project costs. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
would, in addition to its contribution to project costs, provide for the
recurrent costs associated with non-incremental staff through the end of the
project (Section 3.01 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
Procurement
57.          Civil works contracts for construction of five agro-veterinary
support centers, 15 houses and facilities under the research, nutrition and
family planning components, totalling about US$1.5 million (including
contingencies) would be awarded following local competitive bidding procedures,
which have been found satisfactory. These contracts would be generally small
(maximum of about US$20,000), geographically scattered and not readily grouped
for simultaneous tendering. Local contractors are adequately qualified and
exist in sufficient numbers to carry out the required works; foreign firms can
also participate in civil works contracts under local bidding procedures. The
Ministry of Public Works would carry out the road works under the proposed
project with a brigade especially set up for the purpose.   Road construction
equipment and materials costing about US$450,000 (with contingencies) and tools
and spare parts for road construction costing about US$600,000 (with
contingencies), would be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Other project vehicles and spare parts,
totalling about US$800,000 (with contingencies) would be procured over a 3-4
year period not exceeding six vehicles at a time and following selective
tendering procedures of the borrower. Furniture and equipment, tools and other
agricultural and livestock inputs totalling about US$1.3 million (including
contingencies) would be purchased through local suppliers after at least two
price quotations have been obtained. Technical assistance and short-term
consultant services for studies totals about 460 manmonths and about US$3.2
million. Assistance to be engaged includes two Extension/Training Specialists
to be located in the Regional Centers. The appointment of these Specialists is
a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a) of the Development Credit
Agreement). The terms of reference, experience and qualifications of technical
assistance financed by the FAC (including the two Extension/Training
Specialists) would be satisfactory to IDA. All other technical assistance would
be hired in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for international recruitment
and use of consultants. With the exception of contracts for project annual
audits, all other proposals of technical assistance would be evaluated with
priority given to experience and qualifications.
Disbursements
58.     Credit funds would be disbursed as follows:  100 percent of total
expenditures for technical assistance and studies to ISAR, ONAPO and MPW and 35
percent of total expenditures on technical assistance, surveys and studies for
BGM II staff; for BGM II staff, 85 percent of foreign and 95 percent of local
expenditures for vehicles and veterinary supplies, furniture and equipment,
local training and other operating costs, and 85 percent in 1983, 65 percent in
1984, 50 percent in 1985 and 40 percent in 1986, and 30 percent in 1987 of total
expenditures for local salaries and allowances; disbursement for all other
category items would be 100 percent of foreign and 95 percent of local
expenditures. Local expenditures on staff salaries and other operating costs
and miscellaneous supplies would be made against Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) and certified by the head of each implementing organization and made
available for inspection by IDA in the course of project supervision. SOEs
would be audited by the external auditors selected for the project. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that all project expenditures would be documented
according to the above arrangements (Section 3.10 (b) of the Development Credit
Agreement). Disbursements for all other goods and services would be fully
documented.



- 21 -
Accounts and Audits
59.     A good system of detailed accounting and monitoring of expenses was
established under the first project with the assistance of an
internationally-recruited Financial Director. A core of project accounting
staff was trained under the first project, and the Rwandese deputy to the
Financial Director was confirmed as the Project Financial Director as of
February 1, 1982. Responsibility for project financial control would continue
to be based in the Kigali coordination bureau for the first two years of the
project. By 1985, this function would be decentralized, and a Financial
Director would be appointed to each of the two regions (para. 54). Project
accounting in the two project regional centers would be controlled on a
quarterly basis by project accounting staff from Kigali. A project Financial
Advisor would be employed on a short-term basis (3 months per year, 1983-87) to
assist the project financial staff. Initially, the Advisor would help ISAR and
ONAPO to establish proper project accounts; later, he would help put in place
the regionalization of financial control. Due to the absence of a government
auditor or qualified Rwandese audit firms, the BGM I project accounts were
audited by foreign firms approved by IDA. Similar contractual arrangements
would be continued under the proposed second project.
Benefits
60.     The principal benefits of the project would include the establishment of
efficient support services for agricultural and livestock activities at the farm
level, increased production of subsistence and cash crops, increased livestock
from the Rusumo Ranch, increased trade and transportation in and out of the
project area, and the generation of useful technical information from research
activities for the future development of the semi-arid zones in Rwanda. Most of
the project activities are aimed at ensuring sufficient subsistence food
production and facilitating, where basic food needs are met, the production of
marketable surpluses. The value of incremental production of foodcrops
(including fruit trees), coffee and livestock (breeding stock and beef) are the
only benefits that were calculated. At full development in project year 9,
annual incremental coffee production would have an estimated foreign exchange
value of Rf 142 million (US$1.54 million) in estimated 1982 constant prices;
annual incremental foodcrop production would have an estimated value of about Rf
204 million (US$2.22 million) and annual incremental production of livestock
from Rusumo would have an estimated value of Rf 21 million (US$230 thousand).
Other benefits from productive activities, which have not been calculated for
reasons of uncertainty about the timing of benefits, would include incremental
wood production from family woodlots and community plantations and incremental
meat and milk production from the improved health and genetic upgrading of local
cattle, sheep and goat stock.  Additional benefits, more difficult to quantify,
include: improved technical and management services through staff training;
technical asistance and support to agricultural and veterinary education at
Rubilizi; land improvement through erosion control, improved cropping techniques
and reforestation; greater integration of rural and urban markets through roads
improvement; higher nutrition standards and, in the long-term, a reduction of



- 22 -
overall fertility rates through family planning efforts; and increased project
evaluation capacity through the development of monitoring and feedback.
61.     An economic rate of return (ERR) measuring the net incremental benefits
of the directly productive project investments is estimated at about 16
percent.  Project benefits are derived from the incremental foodcrop and coffee
production resulting from improved farming practices. The ERR is, however, not
considered the primary justification for the long-term investments proposed in
the project which are principally aimed at farmer training and the development
of services and infrastructure in support of smallholder agriculture. Although
the benefits from foodcrops in the initial years have been averaged over all
crops, the primary benefits would come from cassava, beans, and sweet potatoes,
for which improved seeds and plant material are available. The overall ERR
analysis includes all expenditures for capital investments, replacements,
operation and maintenance costs related to the project's directly productive
components (i.e. project management, extension activities, Rusumo Ranch and
rural roads) which represent about 65 percent of project cost. The full costs
of all technical assistance except that associated with research, family
planning and monitoring and evaluation activities, were included. Project
activities are not expected to require significant increases in farm labor and,
therefore, no economic value for labor was taken into account in the
calculation. Coffee prices have been projected in accordance with Bank
forecasts, and foodcrops have been valued at domestic market prices. Costs
include estimated average physical contingencies of 7 percent, but do not
include price contingencies, taxes or duties.    Sensitivity analysis on the
ERR showed that if costs were increased by 10 percent, the ERR would be 14
percent.
62.         The proposed project involves certain risks which are not fully
expressed in the sensitivity analysis. The success of the production-
oriented activities will depend on the effectiveness of extension systems and
logistic support in responding to farmers' needs and in introducing new inputs
and improved cultivation techniques, some of which can only be expected to yield
benefits over the medium-term. The project seeks to organize and train regional
extension personnel to provide a few basic services to the population. These
services would be complemented by proper cultivation and husbandry techniques.
Careful monitoring and feedback would be emphasized. The project thus addresses
problems experienced by other rural development projects in a focused and
systematic way to reduce risks and to understand better past failures. There is
the risk that the objectives of the applied research activities supported under
the project will not be realized. The proposed project, however, specifically
addresses the needs of the semi-arid zone by giving priority to the selection of
semi-arid foodcrop varieties already developed for similar ecological conditions
and the study of local farm systems to *ensure adaptability and acceptability.
In order to avoid coordination problems, formal agreements (protocoles
d'accords), defining the respective responsibilities of critical parties in the
implementation of particular activities, were discussed during negotiations and
will be agreed on during a joint IDA/I1TA mission to Rwanda in July of 1982.
Technical and financial management of all components has been carefully reviewed
to assure clear lines of responsibility, reporting and control. In sum, while
there are risks, project investments and the organization of its management
have been carefully considered to minimize them.



- 23 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
63.         The draft Development Credit Agrement between the Rwandese Republic
and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.         Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of Annex
III of the Report.
65.         I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
66.          1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
June 22, 1982



ANNEX I
- '  -                                                  Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
RWANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWANDA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              26.3                                      MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       14.6                 1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       70.0       100.0      200.0                 238.3                   794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)            ..         15.8      29.5                  70.5                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      2916.0      -3847.0   5169.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)      2.4          3.2       4.5                   17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            9.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          110.9        146.3     188.1                  27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        193.1        253.1     328.8                  73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             44.3         45.7      46.6                   44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                             53.0         51.6      50.7                  52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       2.7          2.7       2.7                   2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.8          2.8        3.6/d                2.6                      2.8
URBAN                                  5.6          5.6        5.8                  6.5                      5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         51.1         49.8      49.6                   46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         26.9         22.1       18.7                  19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.4/c        3.4       3.4                    3.1                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              81.0        102.0     107.0                  89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       80.0         96.0      98.0                  90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              49.0         61.0      51.3                  52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           25.0         34.0         ..                 17.8                    16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         41.0         32.2       25.4                  27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        37.2         42.4      46.7                  45.8                     50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                  ..       127.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          ..       35.0                  23.9                    27.4
URBAN                                   ..           ..      41.0                   55.0                    74.3
RURAL                                    ..          ..      35.0                   18.5                -  12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..        53.0      57.0                  26.2
URBAN                                   ..         83.0      87.0                  63.5
RURAL                                   ..         52.0      56.0                   20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            138095.0/c   62048.4   38916.7                31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        11197.067    9181.4   10494.4                 3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
IOTAL                                    ..       822.9     652.1                 1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                                   ..         47.8      45.4                  272.8                   423.0
RURAL                                            3224.4    1604.8                 1745.2                  3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..         21.2       21.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..          ..        4.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..         ..



- 25 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
RWANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWANDA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  49.0        73.0       64.0                  56.4                     73.7
MALE                  68.0         83.0       68.0                  70.7                    96.8
FEIALE                30.0         64.0      59.0                   50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0         2.0        2.0                  10.0                     16.2
MALE                   2.0          3.0       3.0                   13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                 1.0          1.0        1.0                   6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 40.0            12.0      17.0                    8.0                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0        60.0       53.0                  46.5                     36.2
SECONDARY                           14.0         13.0      15.0                   25.5                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         16.4/c       23.0/e    23.0                   25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4         0.9        1.6                   2.9                     32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            .           7.8      17.1                  32.8                     69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..                    1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..       0.04                   2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..      14.6                    1.2                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1650.6       2089.7    2582.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    49.1        48.6       48.1                  34.1                     36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               95.4         93.2      91.2                   80.0                    56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   1.1          1.6       2.0                   8.6                     17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 56.6         54.3      52.2                   41.7                    37.2
HALE                                  58.9         56.9      55.0                   54.3                    47.1
FFDIALE                               54.4         51.9      49.5                   29.2                    27.5
ECONOhIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9       0.9                    1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      148.0                 136.0                    381.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      85.0                   84.5                   156.2
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        .,                   99.1                   334.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      43.0                  61.2                    137.6
-                      ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       30.0                  39.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..       90.0                  68.8
Not available
Net applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
anong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1980.
/c   1962; /d  1978 census;         Ie  1973.
May, 1981



- 26 -                                                                          AN~NEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEbtItIONO.1 ~ St C0A1.01. OICATboS
Notes   Altbog   os-      oaeahrtt   rcn>neheatj  joedoosotacbte -oasr    abn osrol   l   b  Idtatmo  -   otb  tt-
ntoalnortbilb-.onos  of the  ar   fsebroa    ellosadcoashue   ottos>c otso   lot:                                                      tEn  at         I",'s err, non-
obelocs,csotol  o bo-otbs croons of so0asei-e, bodbieteorsr.d, odd  da-o           -inor asaatat   toot doffrt-..-  b-res-
Tbh ssrosgrosoe 1) tIlsl st-n-ygroobcpf tbhonjsotoeotyaod    21~   ... toot7y gtptboooo: nrraecrcsoaoob.a'O-osrogrp
ofossoist  onrA sneoto  Cpse.a..sbt.o..ss    ropnoe  Ptdb   tot    othAroenttodeOso    sross    t.egafsrts
1.05 ut   (oboc..teth           I,b.    aai.             h,Si                     h      -   dqia.                  -h:e:or   nc>   -b :- n  .-  th, ':roa.   0t rflncnd-            l
Toal-Stedtrara  are                 a norrobo-baddI area eod     ~ to -b tutors                         o aid t har,a-   c-b -re - dto bofh  thoetl icnr   -0 nbr0hsttbhb
bt. ii-  ...Ig  -    .dtIy  nd I  cooao'oyoonc     EtS.s.s''arraotprraso    cso
0970, erd19yy don.                                                                             osobool1stltron naddo..Xonrodron
an   Ins  Etro-s, nt- I     ges ol,rb our-, -ud c r Iend groo-l ur-                             ob0 rblroo to sIn'-  loo-  r- - rrlho cooils -      o. nodou 00-sSt-d
P.tly   o  k tgrr   00ne-     qtoetbO ele   19)0, 1970, -d b S-b                                osttt--u i -yortlooahd-       :b    n drluooaL        l  cr00ftrd
bto  ,Iaoto,  b-ao    ohtub            k-tso    ly~ 1;          7 9619600ob  rI                    add-Iiho-f~
dNERGYsONSUnT dOtNbsoPfER        hcer    toyIA -Ar fac-ti   oopeb.ht  of-i   datey                      ob-th or ....n.  ocl.    Abratdro i    .bduo W    trorPI       g ot e,  -tonluob
anongnouetnass   19th. 1970,  rd lyly .dote,                                             sheCho19r0ol.aoat19teosotne,,b.-oo.-s-
dorhatoo  rtttstnsAdOOSttO 7 oso   o  r-aon-b>K  use,-rd   or                                                                                                                 dArhoegrs-
ousai    pop ultotro  b JiYage atd-   tsone -ht  rortfeJ ory  aod f96 rs n9 Isy reet 1ollno   rcoyla'.'bcl ff5cO                                   a e-t-aaSINGrsrs   r
soglfs spsneoryrborhto Rsaigno frboono-rn                   ...'si yrooas otAorhsN.-adcrfrY.. kroo_f                                                    h",os-orl,re   o1 rdarcl
tona, ed ftel  lI0  atanoId  oAbbint   s7.  yos                 h   ae                    cnaaoa   alIosst    looOt  n IO  ;oreco   orn  g
dsfraor-0   I eettr   naous  h             y ht  isne,,s escor-tin   fato   ot-                      dt sohb      ba,   nod rorul Ore)-Ugo.respe-t 'oa'y
and1,1, Ae-ioyoabofrpr(nto    apos.                                                                   usNb.Enro'rn  rotOrs-1a.    -                                    r
StatInery  optlebyon-Irr a -sotoar  phtt.tno   thsr   I.nn  grnn  stosttt                               tort-I-i               - ootgl -esauoaa-G-ctr  tot-al,-ol -s-  or-
watsoorsen.    hI  Os            i-h ..r . onyai r  etlt   ratesd  dsrttr  or                         almr  tAto-' ao pnpc-e tons;             b -o a   -ooloda  nbtd eardgd 6-1l
of foandapleoet Islfd   snan           bili b ia r ghoary7. pcpoa-er  sToatsc                     brnstoalr tdr-1 a1d4   sorm    ina   oyaosd10pet
ssomrdo    ocelsoshbnetdtoersrtlcooonptatr                                           cnaoa0poseoe,s  oaortoodcnlo'ulna
sleshas..ri heat rero"Ih                  "       1"     Iaial-di.-1l                         ELab.stIOltN atD   rVyutrag;n  rpnbccnos                                  :orrot
toptla ttr Pslt: rdda .PjI.                                                                        Adj-dbd.E 1-tRt,
Plar i. h.-tn-er.cteso   ar.uroOlos. 0                                 . .bonooos, o                 Puoat       ..t I.s.l ernlco   ftetos    ofdsono9M y      "- toeonl' taddlenoco
tar sb.On e tttael leadl  d- Cse -as ebtd act tgno. aoo re  febrsy-  ,  00050 aoaut'totoo                                                -din a,np.-ot a
tortlattor tao troatoors fpecent) - ObIldorn  (b-to  taers, noon-g   15-oor bto  senodtaayf  dirrls- dtnddbrobsofoaoe to sted
leson;196, 1970  st-    90   ar.sdl lhreny  os  (erars_ - Lteoseno    eb    rra.ada_
tooletieOoo  Isefsasof   r                    -    -a-ul   rotshrattt ofd sopr n.ib-                   oa  otega-?P  of       brladl  pp           heto  agedi U  yata! aofors
teartopuartoc  fr 190-h, '9_-7,   ea  19f7.,iiy-,tI,l-d---d-   bd;a                                                                                                          .y
Crf  to    at.  trsosnd      nullrebrt   a  tosn    frd-sanr   e easti                                           tos  shotir   sIghs tes-s  sc..o.ads      - ashatanos-s-  iocsed;
roytaooh    19ff, 1970,   and  197    dra                                                           al -tory no-btolesII.
posoio; 19-     1  19ff,ahsd.  0979deba                                                             freres   to  -eaa 1Yohato   par  boc--drf-p-d-utu    antloe  u-- y
Prc   aodnto   ae-noaansa   f  ugrreta-tl   srs                                                         Assbrctnd,nosessadI   cosee    slsstn    frO.
bseeIoc          60stae dt 97reosrtdofhetaons   eco    g-pctOto                                      sto tsfe;aaorsosn     thercarohe chpaoehs -scn
PebIn . . t1ototostr,dtro   sasts - Cp d             b,  fanea  gtibe  of.  !arrrdsT   ah car(or a thd osandpooa iit       Prntasfrondoot
sE   areted tanadn....n. seta                    a age.g-ornutyr                                   noporo..   o a."'bat    eeo   nrsocsae',cfOe   sapaol
I.b   11. , 117~~~~1  .I 1179 data.                                         AddIpohlhoobis-yettsd  (p-o iys LitrIrgb   ga           all, tern   It. Osndntierd)
tIl     12TIItIOI  .              1 1-          d        hI-        . b        d                  to hr 'natty' OfI Os  -posa  atlet p.Fooai            .d1 yrtsesasdsI.
Prob.-   ln-  f-t allfoo   oott-tttr--b.  -tAb...ta! orthlbo   see  so  frda snb-                CofS.1ToNosst    ttgrspa,tnuto    dtsost   er-tt
Istion cflrdr 195e60 betta.   Onnedtrt7snorec  peoarygood.s....dP.g....o eddsoblIroo-is
oto.1tnoal a19raf  p1970os tId     oshs    916,  90   n  19099bdar.Ontlitehor -htors(boad7-tnoeoly_cn   pros,to:d
oerrg  eqoo-1c,   of tPI    t t--d) s-      d-hs pat         t .h.lds b lorooc ype  oepcoa           nnaeorou ert    ofalogsha ..nt.tAls  torrtrtif                      one-      ar
1a9oss .as 1nhogstosocd     sno, d  oplsecloeata    ee,ses                                  asl  yse          -     IPos..elebc pnroon   pro-     tganOsootlaorfote
qoso_ lesse    In  oodp_nasseg obbr  losses o                       ~l'b.r itrtnto.tqj.            Oi-b-slor rIt -rneo   -b Lao  fort  toi farmIng ye      oreotro, hg ost-s5 es dd
sansi ssret tta_rdi   by PA   aobos          iysotgt    a. sfrnra   oiftf00   aesg   of stru . ea...                                               o   96,10  .    90   00
boooahntd   era!; 096 -6y.170 and. 1977 tatdie.                                              1970 oeb 1979 d9,Art. I
Perl  P1ttosi sop r- Aapt-ac  borsor  o)d   Aoset  ot-o-   of cper raptTV terlo-p tos1 tesa  -pa poass)    toobsTaV ..rd tasee It tsr-id-pts  ,,
oa,I   p1  ofth I-  fod-tro   day.  Nopi-ot   nf  ford.. Is  s toet as a- os I-g-                   ar-toto   asses on  thna..  asd enrol, talc, a-      o feal    hn  toea
aE onso   f60grs oU             orlprraopad         en...0.       aaoo  ant-e Ptd1960,1900  oct 1979a i ybeta.  Tb -saoeb-asad -   f                             _t d parottpoiosta
ptlse rrtonf      o  nbl-b iob DO granbc   l  bdtt tlpoo             1 . teeead                     ostIsN- sins age-sati  cop-osth  or. the -opaoti n, oShb lnog  els-arb   d-
Ibtdb fec  1-b) Prorratley pana(per-Obosond    -                    Iotlda   per n- onsan-             "d.t..rstse  f  rra    n     rn Clita -lo        Yaidbid -B-d     hen -odby  >no
tedec  bta derlrod  fn..I'o- Iota   abltes;-I-IdO.-1970yasd, 19l9ddote.iofi ottoochaldsi
at bIrth; 19661,619709end 19799da-a .-as  shaob bentpoablh Enstde-                                                                         bltat'le....          -idn
torosrn oy lq-abte (rmnr of.dIP.   bd IrV            .bn-   rl, i orb tradcony  apon-                goetoal   anoqoeta. doe f.               sotta    ontooetese                sc
her of psotl  (ocoal. urbn, und rtael  ttth  reasorblo  tonsoc e  sce              offorbo-...ble.
sa_t  doypl.   cnlossseed             potiao  deta-sie   nt sated boo. oncooresfoaI'Ooss peb -slata 1960 P                    1rses   Donos Lr79  (01paos-e     obnad  n
fonetnesasdpsh . ..onarsd  ottmor  thenl101 seser  0 a    hi oe me  be~                       F?attsel Intone) of Fheotbr. '   Erho                . ten g' Is  boto  tro  ob.a,rura
A it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                              aelno    bdsro   for h.Ihrns  of _Ito    n  r                         iadrrs
1 ,sbsena     d       dt-gnOogI resntaddoe   ofa rbs  hnoari.tDoRuco  orros                  AEreta1ers   (Poytato.tluf       dn    It tner     fs-oe Lre  fpeen)-
eseati   arosoltpyhohhneofosoeroerotbl                                                                drrltor             foolen    abrador(bassslo
otoss 0  -nosr AIlatsa  ls-cid         o  ltoitfog   toto-tuIen, so -         egtea  -Il,,,-Lb    .-i     I.,-fdr
th    olaoa   addspsl bto  aro -eo Isteso                       ...o tO fhrna -,acItr-ity,.t, da                                          -prnooontn  Isf Soota1 Ioab. lfnct196r
P-sa    il toa      disollasbos               dyt"-     -   ai.                                     'liPi              ",P r.          111  -, -             Nttay  1991ilpi
t anteto  roe ty                                   ItdP'  ..N    .PI'    _udia  nt predrototog  R.yc-  -ii         - I              I.     ..     1      -      7      dIbda
tless qtatftrd . frm -atnisl s,btli as  bosnUSDAp ..os. i.f             i..p- -g                                       ftd1, 1aadf-l ..td.ala
teanleiot ta  Onostg Psoot - Ppotesin  bloded bt snebe of pentlnls
moteerdfasalsredtasatu-sss   p-taortoP noss  ead 20StIa              iIsass,                                  -179dt.Th- ,   I.d,IL'J,   iit.



Annex I
- 27 -                              Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - RWANDA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979-80        1979                      19801'
US$ Mln.         %       US$ Mln.        _
GNP at Market Prices            1035,0         100.0    1172.5           100.0
Gross Domestic Investment        194.9          18,8      187,7           16.0
Gross National Saving            113,0          10.9       21.8            1.9
Current Account Balance           46,8           4.5       54.3            4.6
Export of Goods, NFS             226.6          21,9      16556           14.1
Import  of Goods, NFS            308,6          29.8      331.5           28.3
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(RF Mln)                             of GD?
1980=/                      1980          1972
Current Receipts              13,259                       12.0           8.3
Current Expenditure           10,468                        9.5          10.7
Current Surplus                2,791                        2.5          -2.4
Capital Expenditures           2,113                        1.9           1.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES           1976       1977        1978        1979        1980
(RF Million outstanding, end period)
Money Supply2/                    8,047      10,173      11,224     14,113      15,209
Bank Credit to Public
Organisations                     480.        221         225         233         219
Bank Credit to Private Sector   2,392.        4,169       4.908      4,330       6,296
(Percentage of Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as %
of GDP                             13.0        14.2        13.9       14.5        14.0
Consumer Price Index (Jan-Mar
1976 = 100)                       101.9       116.7       131.3      152.1       163.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                  6.l        14.5        12.5       15.8          7.2
Bank Credit to Public
Organisations                       5.1       -54.0         1.8        3.6        -6.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector        40.1        74.3        17.7      -11.8        45.4
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Provisional
2/ Includes Money and Quasi Money.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
COUNTRY DATA  -  RWANDA                     Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
1/
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS          1977        1978       1979       1980  MERCKAXIDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE
___________________    -           -          -          ~~~~~~~~~~1977 -80)
Exports of goods, f.o.b.   125.2         110.4      202.9      133.6                US$ Mln   %
Imports of goods, f.o.b.  -102.3       -144.9      -159.5    -204.4 Coffee           80.3     55.9
Trade balance                 22.9      -34.5        43.4      -70.8 Tea             10.5       7.3
Cassiterite     7.7      5.3
Services (net)              -72.4      -106.3      -127.4      -90.0 Wallfram         6.s.     4.5
Net transfers                 66.9        94.1      130.8      106.5 Pyrethrum        1.8       1.2
Cinchona        2.1       1.5
Balance on current account  17.4        -46.7        46.8      -54.3 Other           34.9     24.3
Total        143.7    100.0
Direct Investment              5.9         4.7       12.5       17.0        EXTERNAL DEBT,
Net MLT Borrowing             23.3        20.1       17.6       33.2       DECE_BER 31, 1980
USS )ln
Other Capital (net)
and capital n.e.i.        -24.1        26.1        -7.2       17.4 Public Debt, incl.
Increase in reserves (-)   -22.5         -4.2       -69.7      -13.3 guaranteed             170.0
Non-Guaranteed
Private Debt           --
Gross Reserves                                                        Total Outstandin
(end year)               96.8        99.7       177.3      204.5 and Disbursed           --
Petroleum Imports             12.3        11.8       14.5       22.8  MEIRLAL DEBT. SERVICE
Petroleum Exports              -           -          -          - 
Public Debt incl.
guaranteed             3.2
Non-guaranteed Pri-vate
Debt                   --
Total outstanding and
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                       disbursed              --
Annual Averages      End Period
1974-80           December 1981         I3RD/IDA LENDING  Dec. 31.1980)
US$ 1.00 = RF                  92.84               92.84                         (USS MTh)
IDA
RF  1.00 = US$                  0.011               0.011             Outstanding and
Disbursed          58.12
Undisbursed         S7.48
Outst3nding mncl.
1/ Provisional                                                         Und'sbursed       115.60
2/ Debt Service as a percentage of Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.
__ GNot available.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
- 29 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Credit No.   Fiscal Year   Borrower   Purpose                      IDA   Undisbursed
(Four credits have been fully disbursed)                          31.90
567-RW          1975       Rwanda       Education                 6.38       2.87
655-RW         1977                     DFC I                     4.00       0.13
656-RW         1977                     Agriculture Cinchona    1.80         0.31
668-RW          1978                    Bugesera
Gisaka-Migongo
Mixed Farming and
Rural Development       14.00        0.70
769-RW         1978                     Road Maintenance         15.00       4.14
896-RW          1979                    DFC II                    5.20       4.71
937-RW          1979                    Mutara Agricultural
and Livestock
Development              8.75        5.84
1039-RW          1980                    Integrated Forestry and
Livestock Development  21.00        10.59
1057-RW          1981                    Telecommunications        7.50        7.05
1126-RW          1981                    Coffee/Foodcrops         15.00      14.50
1217-RW          1982                    Technical Assistance    5.00          5.00
Total                                            135.53 1/   55.84
Repaid                    .38
Total Held             135.15
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1982)
In 1976, IFC made a loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory. A second
IFC long-term loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitments of up to
US$60,000 for an expansion of the tea factory were signed in September 1980.
Note: Rwanda has received no Bank loan.
1/   Does not include US$25.9 million credit approved by the Board May 20, 1982
for a Fifth Highway Project and a US$10.0 million credit approved by the
Board June 15, 1982 for a Second Education Project.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN RWANDA 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Credit No. 567-RW      Education Project; US$8.0 Milion Credit of June 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
As now constituted, the project includes construction, equipping and
furnishing of 250 primary-school workshops, a school-textbook printshop, and
an office building for the School Financing and Construction Services (SFCS)
as well as furnishing and equipping of the Rural Agricultural Training Center
of Gitarama. The project also provides technical assistance, vehicles and
operating expenses for the SFCS. The project has been hampered by implementa-
tion difficulties centering on two misprocurements (an amount of US$130,000
was cancelled because of misprocurement of certain construction materials; a
second amount of US$1,491,000 was cancelled due to misprocurement of paper).
Most of the 250 workshops are nearly completed. The lack of acceptable record
keeping, however, has impeded the processing of disbursement requests. There-
fore, a final inspection and evaluation mission for the workshops, organized
by the Government (with IDA approval) was undertaken successfully in November
1981 with UNESCO assistance. Disbursements have resumed. The printshop is
now operational and construction of the office building for the SFCS completed.
The original Closing Date (June 30, 1982) was extended to December 31, 1982 by
which time the project is expected to be completed.
Credit No. 656-RW      Cinchona Project; US$1.8 million Credit of August 20, 1976
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project provides over a five year period inputs and extension
services to grow cinchona for export. Progress is satisfactory and there is
still a demand from farmers for planting material. World market prices
for cinchona derivates, however, remained low during 1979 and 1980, and OCIR
(the implementing agency) had to reduce the farm gate price for cinchona bark
and abolish the export tax and the OCIR levy. In September 1980 it was
decided to establish a cinchona bark processing plant in the Kirambo area, and
construction has since started and the factory is scheduled to be open in
early 1983.  This should give Rwanda a stronger position in the future to
compete with cinchona derivates on the world market. The original Closing
Date (June 30, 1982) was extended to March 31, 1983 by which time the project
is expected to be completed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Credit 668-RW          Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo Mixed Farming and Rural
Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of the promotion of mixed farming and rural
development in two recently populated zones; it aims at strengthening the
central services responsible for rural development. The project includes
tsetse control, field extension and infrastructure, credit, improvement of
feeder roads and water supply, a limited number of schools and health centers
and establishment of two cattle ranches. The project is cofinanced with BADEA
(US$5.0 million equivalent for livestock development and water facilities) and
France (US$2.6 million for six technical assistants). Satisfactory progress
has been made with programming of work, budgeting and construction. The
results of the foodcrop and plant improvement components, however, are below
appraisal estimates due to technical packages which have not taken adequate
account of the relatively dry project area. A follow-up project will build on
infrastructure put in place under the first project and focus primarily on
applied research, training and extension.
Credit 769-RW          Fourth Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Credit
of April 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1978;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project (a US$15.0 million
Credit for road maintenance) started in January 1978. Specialists financed
under the technical assistance program are performing satisfactorily. Procure-
ment of equipment is completed. On the suggestion of the Association, an
expert on labor intensive methods visited Rwanda for three weeks in June 1978
and recommended that one mechanized unit be replaced by one unit utilizing
labor intensive methods. Following the consultant's recommendation, the
Government has introduced labor-intensive methods for road maintenance.
Although the project is about one year behind schedule, implementation is now
at its anticipated progress rate and the project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Project completion is expected for end-1982.
Credit 896-RW          Second Rwandese Development Bank Project; US$5.2 Million;
Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: January 4, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Project aims at providing further assistance to the industrial
sector by supporting the activities of the Rwandese Development Bank. It
includes two components: (a) a second line of credit of US$5.0 million (which
is now about 80 percent committed) to finance BRD's foreign exchange require-
ments and (b) a feasibility study for the establishment of an auditing firm
in Rwanda (US$0.2 million). Government has just finished reviewing the audit
study and its comments are currently under consideration by the Association.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit 937-RW          Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project;
US$8.75 Million Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is the second phase of a long-term development program
for the Mutara region. It aims at developing techniques, procedures, and an
institutional environment which will make it possible to preserve the
production potential of the area, make a rational and more intensive use of
available resources, improve farming and ranching techniques, and integrate
the project into the local administration.  Settlement of cattle owners has
proceeded in an orderly way and pasture production has improved, but destocking
activities and credit recovery have been disappointing due to lack of clear
policies and enforcement mechanisms.
Credit 1039-RW         Integrated Forestry and Livestock Development Project;
US$21.0 Million Credit of July 7, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 11, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term program to develop
the forestry resources of Rwanda and to strengthen the livestock industry.
Technical assistance personnel and key local staff have been recruited and
start-up activities are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit 1057-RW         Telecommunications Project; US$7.5 Million;
Credit of August 13, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project aims at improving the quality of existing telecommuni-
cations services, while extending the coverage to geographical areas and
segments of the population which at present do not benefit from such
services. In addition to improving international and domestic telecommuni-
cations (telephone and telex) the project provides technical assistance and
training to the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications. The project is
cofinanced with FAC and CCCE (US$3.9 million equivalent) and CIDA (Can$4.95
million) and is proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit 1126-RW         Lake Kivu Coffee Improvement and Foodcrops Project;
US$15.0 Million Credit of April 29, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project aims at building up an effective extension service
which would assist farmers in increasing foodcrop and coffee production using
field-tested techniques and also helping OCIR-Cafe (the implementing agency)
improve its financial management. Technical assistance personnel and key
local staff have been recruited and start-up activities are progressing
satisfactorily.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Credit 1217-RW         Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 Million
Credit of April 5, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
July 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project aims at increasing Rwanda's absorptive capacity,
improving interministerial coordination in project preparation and monitoring,
and strengthening the Ministry of Planning (MINIPLAN). The project credit
agreement was signed April 5, 1982. The Project Economist to be assigned
to the Programming Directorate in the MINIPLAN has been recruited and is
expected to be at his post by mid-June 1982.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
RWANDA
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Phase II Bugesera Gisaka Migongo (Rural Services) Project
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Origin of Project: Studies Bureau, Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (follow-up to BGM I Project)
(b) Identification Mission: June 1979
(c) Appraisal Mission: May/June 1981
(d) Negotiations: May 5-10, 1982
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 1982
II. Special Implementation Action
None.
III. Special Conditions
A condition of disbursement for all expenditures on building
construction and the rural road component would be IDA's approval of a
letter of understanding between the Ministry of Public Works and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock defining the management
responsibilities for the road building component and all other project
building construction (para. 50). Approval of annual work plans for each
fiscal year during project execution from the Ministry of Public Works
(road component), ONAPO (family planning component), ISAR (research
component) and BGM II project management would also be a condition of
disbursement of funds concerned (para. 55).
IV.  Conditions of Effectiveness
Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be (a) the appointment of
the two Extension/Training Specialists (para. 57) and the signing of a
contract satisfactory to IDA between ISAR and IITA regarding
implementation of the research component (para. 41).



idRD lSi9si~
RWAN DA                                                     0 o             20 3
BUGESERA                              f domQ                    __     _      __   .__
15    2'0
GISAKA-MIGONGO PROJECT                                                                   Pc5LES
Project  Locations                T/d                                     -   s-
/   )   {   g        9        ~~~~~~~The Oeerrrr,fl ast0000 serrsa Of 
'o       rh reCtorel   Sy   n *p'ort to  glhxr err orrheO
A B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it o rrobor Jr-p'r  er  rho hrr    fr
AK AGE RA
030   I --            ~~~~~Byurrbo  aO
To RAuengerlb                                                        NATIONAL
, < < ,                  4  |    V          ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~P A R K  7  
IGAU~~~~~~~~~~~~~
uANDA                 R       ~-   RIVER 0            COUPS DEA/
<;         Y     NG~ENYA      -AHi$aa                 MASE /i  MAREAGEs                c      \
itorama/ 'ctraaZ~'  AE  /LG
RWAN A             -~~~~~~ MILITAeRY  EEVTO      OEA//A
/ MNAumu                                                                         E  /  /S{/A
ZAIRE                            0o  1Y JPROJECT  BOUNDARIES A   1/MITES Dl PiO,'ET
I  \>            |       , -2 3Gi -OMAL    MAiiNi ROADS / ROUTES PR11NChPAlES           2-3C0S ;
,lUGAND                5 L- ;  RIVERS / COUIRS D'EAU
4  gZ  <   <,  ~~~~KENYA                              M   -hARSHES, i MARECAGES 5
<7   4    {tzctorzo   1>%/      r3  ~~~~~~~LAKES i iACS
0 RWAg   >  \-   Sf                    3   ~~~~~~~MILITARY RESERVATION 1./ 701!E M111TAIRE
RWAN    TANZAN                O cet-                   INATENATIONL PARK BOUNDARIES / ZlROTIErES D0PA9PC
.   s  J                                                          A/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA TlOl'V.AZ
t             WQ, /nd~~Icn -li n             COMMUNvE BCOUNDARIES / Z/IW7~E5 OF C011l1&,0v`>
2Ai'RF E   -bgnlof                                      '   PREFECTURE BOtJNDARiES  14ITZ'JS Df~ P.rFFFF/JP.Z.S '.
>        e                    -X-  ~~~~~~~~INITERNAT"ONAL BOUNDARIES / fRNTIER3 S
0                                                           /NTE iNAT/ONAZES
Z7AMBIA                                                   30e30O



