Document of              t
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3853-RW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RWANDA
BUGESERA GISAKA MIGONGO RURAL SERVICES PROJECT - PHASE
May 28, 1982
Eastern African Region
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Franc Rwandais (RF)
US$l.00             RF 91.91
RF 100          =  US$1.09
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                      British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                         =          3.3 feet
1 hectare (haA                      =          2.47 acre
1 acre (100 m )                     =          0.02 acres
1 kilometer  km)                    -          0.62 miles
1 are (100 mZ)                      =          0.01 hectares
1 square kilometer (km2)            =          0.39 square miles (sq.mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)                     =          2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                         =          0.26 US gallons (gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)                =          2,204 pounds (lb)
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BGM         -  Bugesera Gisaka Migongo Project
BADEA       -  Banque Arabe pour le Développement Economique en Afrique
(Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa)
CLUSA       -  Cooperative League of the USA
CRS         -  Catholic Relief Services
FAC         -  Fonds Aide et Cooperation
IAMSEA      -  Institut Africain et Mauricien de Statistiques et Economies
Appliquees (African Mauritian Institute for Statistics and
Applied Economics)
ISAR        -  Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda
(Agricultural Research Institute of Rwanda)
IITA        -  International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
GRENARWA    -  Grenier National du Rlwanda (National Grain Marketing
Organization of Rwanda)
OBM         -  Office du Bugesera et Mayaga (Agency for Bugesera and
Mayaga)
OCIR-Café   -  Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda - Café
(Agency for Industrial Crops of Rwanda - Coffee)
OCIR-Thé    -  Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda - Thé
(Agency for Industrial Crops of Rwanda - Thé)
ONAPO       - Office National de la Population (National Population
Office)
OPROVIA     -  Office National pour le Développement et la
Commercialisation des Produits Vivriers et de la Production
Animale (National Agency for Development and Marketing of
Foodcrops and Animal Products)
PAV         -  Agro-Veterinary Support Center (Poste Agro-Vétérinaire)
SSS         -  Service des Semences Sélectionnées (Selected Seed Service)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
BUGESERA GISAKA MIGONCO - PHASE Il
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND  ..................................,.......    1
A.    Project Background        ......................................    1
B.    The Agricultural Sector .................................    2
C.    Development Objectives and Constraints .          .................    6
D.    Government Services ..................         o     .e            7
II.   THE PROJECT AREA            .     .     . ..................    12
A.    The Bugesera Region           .....................   13
B.    The Gisaka Migongo Region ...............................   14
C.    The Bugesera Gisaka Migongo Project - Phase 1
(Cr. 668-RW)                   .......... 16
III.  THE PROJECT .................       .     .      .    .     .     20
A.    Project Concept .................O.. c  ..^.......   20
B.    Detailed Features            ..                 ..............   22
C.    Project Costs ...................................   33
D.    Financing ..........................................              34
E.    Procurement .....................................   34
F.    Disbursements ....................        . . . . .               35
G. Accounts and Audts    ..37
H.  Project Completion Report .. ...                                    38
I.    Environmental Impact           ....................  38
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..39
A.    Project Coordînating Committee ..........................   39
B.    Management of Project Components.                                 39
C.    Annual Work Plans            ......................  42
D.    Staffîng ................................................   43
E.    Implementation and Monitorlng ...........................   44
V.    TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS ........................  44
VI.   MARKETS AND PRICES ...........................    48
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS ... ..................... 49
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED ON CREDIT CONDITIONS.   52
This report is based on the f indings of an IDA appraisal mission to Rwanda
in May-June 1981. The mission was composed of A. Levi, S. Badgley,
J.C. Salle, J. Russell (IDA), and J. Le Hasif, M. Barnaud and M. Rodriguez
(consultants). A. Le-vi, S. Badgley (IDA) and M. Barnaud (consultant) held
post-appraisal discussions with Government in October/November 1981;
V. Elliott(IDA) and P. 14acEvoy (consultant) completed appraisal of the
family planning component in January 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Suptin  TalesSc          dulesnd Charts
Table 1      Summary of Project Costs
Table 2      Government Cash-Flow
Table 3      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 4A    Zones L and 2 - Incremental Benefits
(Fooderops, Fruit Trees and Coffee)
Table 4A1   Incremental Production - Fruit Trees
Table 4A2   Incremental Productîon - Coffee
Table 4B    Sumary Costs and Benefits
Table 5      Farm Model - Zone 1 (Coffee Potential)
Table 6      Farm Model - Zone 2 (Semi-arid)
Table 7      Project Staffing Summary
Schedule 1: Annual Work Plans: Schedule of Content
and Criterïa for IDA approval
Schedule 2: Staffing - Technical Assistance
Chart 1:    Project Organizat:Lon Chart
Chart Il:   Implementatîon Schedule 1982 - Start-up Activities
Chart III:  Implementation Scheduxle - 1983-87
Chart IV:   Implementat ion Schedule - Pilot Family Planning Program
Ma ps
- Project Area - IBRD i5961
- Bugesera Region - IBRD 15967
-  Gisaka Migongo Region - IBRD 15966
Im2lementatîon Volume,
Detailed Cost Tables
Annexes:  Livestock Program
Roads Program, Detailed Maps
Pilot Family Planning Program
Selected Seed Prograim
Tree Nursery Program
Protocole d'Accord between The Banques Populaires and the BGM I
Project Management (February 8, 1982)
Information Available in Project File
-  BGM I:   Annual Work Plans (1977-82)
-  BGM I:   Annual Progress Reports
-  BGM I:   Annual Audits
-  BGM Il:  Project Preparation Report
-  IAMSEA:  Etude Socio-Economique de la Rêgion du Bugesera (May 1981)
-  IAMSEA:  Etude Socîo-Economique de la Région du Gisaka Migongo
(November 1981)
-  MINAGRI: Propositions pour le troisième plan quinqu4nnal (1982-86)
-  MINAGRI: Production des seme)nces
-  FAO:      Renforcement du Service des Semences Sélectionnées
- Février 1981
-  Coopérative League of the USAID:  Evaluation du Projet de Silos
Coopératifs au Rwanda



Maps
-  Bugesera Region:         Paysannats (IBRD 15969)
-  Bugesera Region:         Livestock Activities (IBRD 15965)
-  Bugesera Region:         Agricultural and Veterinary Centers (PAVs)
(IBRD 15963)
-  Gisaka Migongo Region:  Paysannats (IBRD 15968)
-  Gisaka Migongo Region:  Livestock Activities (IBRD 15964)
-  Gisaka Migongo Region:  Agricultural and Livestock Centers
(IBRD 15962)



0
q



RWCNODA
BUGESERA GISAKA MIGONGO PRlTGECT - PHASE II
STAFF AMPPISAL REPORT
Br BACXCRROUND
A. Project Background
1.01         IDA has been involved în the Bugesera and Gisaka Migongo (BGM)
Region since 1975, when the f irst BGP; project was initiated.  The
Bugesera Gisaka Migongo I project was orîginally prepared as an organized
settlement project based on livestock development. liowever, the rapîd pace
of spontaneous settlement în th s htiitherto sparsely settled area quickly
precluded poss-bilïities for extensive settleament of new famiiîes, and at
appraisal, the orientation of the project was changed ta a more broadly
based f ive-year program f£r mixed farming and the impro-vement of rural
services in two largely undeveloped regions of Rwanda. The first phase
project wili be completed in December 1982. Discussions on the content and
orientation of a second phase began in late 1979, between the Bank's
Regional Mission in Easterr. Africa ÎRMEA) , BGM I project staff and Mîinstry
of Agriculture and Livestock Development officiais. The proposed Project
was prepared durïng the second half of 1980 by a technical assistant
working in the Studies Bureau of the MiLnistry wîth assistanc e from RMEA.
There was considerable discussion on the scope of the second phase Project
during the preparation period. The draf t preparation report proposed an
extension. of the BGM L project area to include the organized settlement
schemes (paysannats) of Mayaga and Ieyanya, adjacent ta the Bugesera area,
and a sizeable rural infrastructure componenit, including a water supply
system for southeru Bugesera and a rural electrification system.  However,
during a joint IDA/FAC mission to Rwanda in late 1980, it was agreed that
proposals for a second phase Project had to be scaled down considerably and
that agricultural research should be one of the principal components, since
on-farm research in the semï-arid areas of the region (about 40% of the
total cultivable land area) had not been addressed under the first phase.
Government's revised preparation document -was received at headquarters in
late April 1981. The report included proposals for extension of the
Project area to the paysannats of Mayaga and leyanya, but reduced
provisions for establishment of new infrastructure.
1.02         This report is based on the f indings of an IDA appraisal
mission which visited Rwanda in May-Jurie, 1981.  The mission was composed
of A. Levi, S. Badgley, J.C. Salle, J. Russell (IDA), and J. Le Hasif, M.
Barnaud and M. Rodriquez                     A.nLvs  A  Ii  S. Badgley (IDA), and M.
Barnaud (consultant) held post-appraisai discussionts wïth Government in
Kigali in October/November; V. Ellîott (IDA) and P. MacEvoy (consultant)
completed appraisat of the pilot f amîiy planning component in January 1982.
1.03      The major changes ta the preparation report agreed with the
Government during the appraisai and post-appraisal missions were: (i) a
substantial reduction ln the scope af Project activicles and a greater
emphasis on impravement of extension services and agrîcultural research;
(ii) limitation of the ProJect area ta thant of the first phase project and,
therefore, exclusion of the paysannats of Mayaga and Icyanya; (iii) the



-2-
inclusion of nutrition and family planning activities, (iv) an applied
research component; (v) a rural road component; and (vi) the supervision of
all Project civil works by the Minîstry of Public Works.
1.04      To date, the Bank Group has financed six agricultural development
projects în Rwanda. The Mutara Agricultural Development Project-Phase I
(Cr. 439-RW) was financed by an IDA Credit of US $3.8 million, and is fully
disbursed. A Project Completion Report was prepared in August 1980 and a
PPAR issued ïn June 1981.  They concluded that even though the project did
not result in the expected increase in agricultural production, substantial
achievements had been realized in the areas of infrastructure development
and în experience acquired by Rwandese staff in project management.  The
agricultural package was overly opltimistic and the lack of effective
coordination between donor agencies working in the project area led to
additional dîfficulties. Overall, the economie impact of the project was
marginal. Experience gained through implementation of this and other
projects were taken into account in designing the proposed Project;
notably, proposed technical interventions are fewer and simplified,
infrastructure development has been reduced to a minimum> systematic
farm-level monitorîng and feedback has been introduced. The Cinchona
Project (Cr. 656-RW), supported by an IDA Credit of US$1.8 million, is
nearing completion and has been implemented satisfactorily. The Bugesera
Gisaka Migongo Project, Phase I (Cr. 668-RW) received an IDA Credit of
US$14.0 million; it is reviewed in Chapter II. An IDA Credit of US$8.9
million for the Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project -
Phase II (Cr. 937-RW) was approved ia June 19, 1979. The Mutara II Project
supports two principal activîties- group ranch development and settlement.
The group ranch component has achieved the orderly settlement of cattle
owners and improved pasture production; however, destocking and cost
recovery have been disappointing duie to lack of clear government policies.
The settlement component suffers from the lack of appropriate technical
packages and poor management of tree nurseries. The Integrated Forestry
and Livestock Development Projecrt (Cr. 1039-RW), which became effective on
November 11, 1981, received an IDA Credit of US$21 million. The Lake Kivu
Coffee Improvement and Foodcrop Project (Cr. 1126-RW) became effective on
December 4, 1981, and received an IDA Credit of US$15 million. Al
technical assistance and key local staff for both of these latter projects
have now been recruited and start-up activities have begun satisfactorily.
B. The _ ricultural Sector
General
1.05        Rwanda is a small, landlocked country coverîng an area of about
26,000 km2. It borders on Uganda to the north, Tanzania to the east,
Burundi to the south and Zaire ta the west. Almost all imports auid exports
are trucked to and from Mombasa, the nearest seaport, 1700 km by road from
Kigali. With a per capita GDP of around US$230 in 1980, Rwanda is one of
the poorest countries in the world. Its population, about 505 million, has
been increasing at an annual rate of about 3.6%. Kigali (pop. 118,000) and
Butare (pop. 22,000) are the two major cities; population densities vary
widely, from 111 per km2 in the s.ava[nnah areas of eastern Rwanda, to 328
per km2 in Butare prefecture.  Ninety-five percent of the population is
rural; the population is relatively homnogeneous, both ethnîcally and in
terms of income, living conditions, and average land holdings.



-3-
1.06       Rwanda is largely a hilly country, with elevation and rainfall
gradually increasing f rom east to west. There are three major ecological
zones. The eastern zone is a savannah region wîth low rainfall (700 -
1,000 mm a year) and a long dry season; altitudes average between 1,000 and
1,500 m. The natural vegetation consists mostly of tall grasses and acacia
trees. This zone, which contains the proposed Project area, is uncharac-
teristic of Rwanda, due primarîly to its semi-arid nature, low soil ferti-
lity and its rapidly growing immigrant population (migrants are from other,
more densely settled areas of Rwanda). Until relatively recently, this was
the least populated area of Rwanda, principally because of its lower
rainfall, and until 1976, the presence of tsetse fly. The central high
plateau zone is densely populated wîth rolling hills (1,500 to 2,000 m in
w    eIeaton) and annual rainfall variation of 1,200 - 2,000 mm.  The
mountainous western zone includes the Zaîre-Nile Divide and a volcanic
region to the north. The average altitude in this zone is above 2,000 m,
except along Lake Kivu, where elevation is between 1,400 and 1,800 m.
Overall, the zone has an annual rainfall of 1,300 mm or more, and a cool
climate; parts of this zone have population densities in excess of 350 per
km2. Only about 30% (8,000 km2) of Rwanda is suitable for cropping, and
virtually all of this area is already under intensive cultivation. Another
22% of the land area is takern up with marginal grazing, 6% is forest, and
the remainder has no agricultural potential. Subsistence crops occupy
about 95% of the cultivated areas, and the remaining 5% is planted in
commercial crops, mainly coffee.
1.07      Rwanda has a traditional and overwhelmingly rural economy.  In
1980, agriculture contributed about 50% of GDP, three-quarters of which was
f rom subsîstence crops. The country is largely self-sufficient in basic
f oods, but there is serious doubt about the ability of agricultural
production to keep up with the rapidly growing population.  Almost all
agricultural activities are carried out by smallholders on plots averaging
about one hectare in size; basic hand tools include the hoe, pick and
matchete. The use of improved seeds, fertilizers or compost is still
extremely limited. Total exports in 1980 represented about 12% of GDP; of
these, coffee contributed about 55 % and other agricultural products,
another 14%. Medium-term prospects for increasing exports are not
encouraging. There are few possibilities for expanding the range of
exports and limited scope for increased volumes of the existing ones;
medium-term prospects for improvement in the terms of trade for the major
exports are poor.  Food imports of about RF 1,865 million (US$20 million)
in 1980 consisted mainly of products consumed by the urban population:
wheat (20%), rice (17%), cookiîng oils (10%), salt (15%) and malt for beer
production (13%).
Land Tenure
1.08         According to Rwandese law, all land in Rwanda belongs to the
Government. Most land holdings, however, are governed by a combination of
traditional law and modern regulations.  All pasture land is communally
held.  Most cultivated land is passed on to heirs and rarely sold for
cash.  A number of settlement schemes have been organîzed in the less
densely populated areas. These schemes aim to relieve the general shortage
of land and to increase productivity by intenisifying the delivery of
technical and social services (access roads, schools, dispensaries,
extension services).  Farmers on these schemes enter into a contract with
Government and have usufruct rights of a 2 ha plot.  Settlers cannot



-4-
subdivide their plots and must conform to designated agricultural
practices. By 1976, an estimated 62,000 families had been settled in this
manner. Cultivated land under usuf ruct rights can be repossessed by the
Government, în which case, compensation is paid on the basis of crops
planted, type and number of trees, and type of dwelling.
Agrîcultural Production
1.09       Foodcrops.  The variatioon in elevation and climate enables a wide
range of crops to be grown in Rwand.a. Subsistence crops grown at lower
elevationts include beans, sorghum, beer bananas, sweet potatoes, groundnuts
and cassava. Foodcrops grown at higher elevations are peas, potatoes,
maize and beans. About 95% of the cultivated land is planted with
foodcrops, with an estimated one quarter of this area under bananas, 18%
under tubers (cassava, sweet potatoes, and potatoes), 25% under cereals
(sorghum and maize), and 34% under pulses (beans and peas). Rwanda's
climatic conditions allow for two crops a year in most areas, but soil
fertility is declining and crop yields are poor. To date, the results of
research efforts have been fairly limited.  A few improved seed varieties
have been identified, but there has been little work on farms systems
research or adaptive trials on farmers' plots.
1.10       Cash crops.  About five percent of the cultivated land is planted
with cash crops. Coffee is the single most important source of Government
revenues.  All coffee in Rwanda is grown by smallholders, who have, on
average, a 150-tree plot covering an estimated 0.08 ha. The number of
coffee-growing families is estimated at about 440,000, or half of the
smallholder familîes in the country; coffee plots cover a total area of
about 30,000 ha, or about 2.2% of the arable land. Coffee production has
been relatively stable over recenit years, fluctuating between 20,000 and
24,000 tons of parchment coffee per year, which results in exports of
between 15,000 and 18,000 tons of green coffee. Most coffee in Rwanda is
of the Arabica type. Under the International Coffee Agreement, Rwanda's
quota is presently 22,500 tons. OCIR-Café, a parastatal under the Ministry
of Agriculture, is responsible for coffee production, commercial operations
and quality control. OCIR-Cafg finances coffee extension agents (although
these agents are responsible to the communes) and organizes and finances
countrywide insect contral campaigns. It is estimated that the area under
coffee and number of trees have doubled over the past 20 years; the output
per tree, however, has declined by about 20% due to a lack of mulching
material, soîl erosion, irregular pruning and inefficient coffee-spraying
campaigns. Due ta increasing competition with foodcrops and current
international market conditions, the present Government policy is not to
expand the area of land under coffee cult ivation.
Livestock
1.11         Cattle has been an important sign of status and wealth in
Rwanda. However, with the growth of population and limited land, the size
of the national herd has been declining. In 1980, the national cattle herd
was estimated to be about 600,000 and. declining at a rate of about 7% p.a.
Milk production is low, estimated at about 66 million liters in 1980; with
one-third f or human consumption. Meat production was estimated at 10,000
tons carcass weight in 1980. The num,ber of goats and sheep which provide
most of the meat consumed in rural areas was estimated at 770,000 and
270,000 respectively. Less than a third of all farm familîes own cattle;



-5-
those who do own cattle normally have from three to 12 head. There are no
commercial ranches in Rwanda.  Herds from ISAR's research stations in
Rubona and Karama produce upgraded breeding stock for diffusion in
development projects, and the Rusumo Ranch (para 3.16) produces both
breeding stock and high-quality beef for Kigali market. Two government
fattening ranches were established under the BGM 1 project, but neither
proved to be commercially viable (para 2.15). The Rwandese local cattle
strain is the result of the uncontrolled crossing of the small,
short-horned Zebu and the Red Ankole, a large animal with long horns. High
incidence of parasitism and increasing malnourishment have resulted in poor
breeding performance and low yields of meat and milk. East Coast fever,
Bovine trypanosomiasis and varieties of lielminthiasisare are the major
debilitating cattle diseases. Rwanda has a fair network of dipping tanks
and sprays, but they tend to be poorly maintained and often lack supplies.
1.12        In spite of a severe lack of grazing land, few cattle are
stall-fed, although most goats are tethered. A major intensification
effort has begun throughout the country to stall-feed livestock on forage
crops such as Setaria and Pennisetum. The manure is transferred to compost
heaps for use as organic fertilizer-for crops. The Agricultural Research
Institute of Rwanda (Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda, ISAR) at
Rubona has shown that when small quantities of mineral fertilizers are
added to the compost just prior to field applicatîon, significant increases
în crop yields can be obtained. In areas where agricultural personnel have
vorked with farmers and explained the utility of stall-feeding combined
with compost preparation, farmer response has been encouraging.
Forestry
1.13        Rwanda's forest resources are estimated to cover approximately
170,000 ha, or roughly 6% of the total land area. This resource, which vas
previously much more extensive, is being rapidly depleted at an estimated
rate of 5% per annum. At the end of 1980, there were some 40,000 ha of
plantations in Rwanda, mostly small stands of eucalyptus established by the
communes for fuelwood production. The eastern part of the country, which
has been subjected ta heavy migration, has suffered particularly from
over-exploitation of its limited forest resources, and sporadic Government
tree-planting programs are not sufficient to keep up with growing demand
for wood or to provide adequate soil protection against erosion in critical
zones. The marked decline in wood available for fuel and charcoal has
resulted in the increased use of agricultural residues for fuel. Maize,
sorghum stalks, bean and pea hulls and dried dung are being burned instead
of being used to improve soil structure and fertility. The IDA-financed
Integrated Forestry and Livestock Project is providing assistance to
reforest about 8,000 ha in the Kigali and Butare Prefectures and 2,000 ha
in the Gishwati Forest Reserve in the Gisenyi Prefecture. The project is
also strengthening the services of the Waters and Forestry Department of
the Ministry of Agriculture and upgrading the production of tree nurseries
in the Kigali and Butare Prefectures for the development of rural woodlots.
In most parts of Rwanda, a serious constraint to major replanting programs
is the lack of large areas suitable for efficient forest plantations.
Scattered, denuded hilltops remain, but often the thin soils make it
difficult to reforest; as a result, in many areas, reforestation programs
will have to be largely confined to roadsides and areas unsuitable for
cultivation or livestock production and integrated into the farming system
as small woodlots or plantings on contour bunds.



-6-
Marketing and Prices
1.14        Crops.  Most foodcrop production is consumed on the farm.  An
estimated 33% is marketed, mainly locally on traditional markets days.
Farmers sell their marketable surpluses for cash or through barter.
Beans, sorghum, peas, and potatoes are the principal foodcrops traded
inter-regionally. The marketing cf peas and potatoes is carried out
entirely by private traders. The National Grain Marketing Organization of
Rwanda (GRENARWA), a USAID-supported marketing parastatal, intervenes in
the marketing of beans and sorghum in an effort to stabilize the prices of
these two key staples. Annual bean production in Rwanda is estimated at
180,000 tons; the marketed surplus is estimated at 60,000 tons. In 1980,
GRENARWA bought 5,000 tons and sold 3,000 tons, thus accouating for about
8% of market activity. Total sorghum production is estimated at 150,000
tons/year, with a marketed supply at about 50,000 tons. In 1980, GRENARWA
purchased about 2,000 tons, representing about 4% of market activity;
however, GRENARWA estimates that it would need to control 10% of the
marketed surplus to be able to exercise a stabilizing effect on prices.
Banana beer is the most widely-traded item in Rwanda, and the most readily
available source of cash in the rural communities. There is no uniform
system for the marketing of cash crops. Coffee is collected by traders
licensed by OCIR-Café. It is then graded by OCIR and exported and marketed
abroad by Rwandex, a private company in which the Government has a
controlling interest.  Tea and pyrethrum are collected, tested and marketed
by OCIR-Tea and the Office of Pyrelthrium, OPYRWA, respectively.
1.15      Livestock and Meat.  Most cattle are sold in small rural markets
or in Kigali and Butare.  In the rural areas, slaughtering techniques are
crude, and there is almost no check; on sanitation or disease. The price
for steers in local markets is about RF 50/kg liveweight. Official prices,
in theory, are established by the Niational Price Commission, but there is
no effective enforcement system.  There are three slaughter houses in
Rwanda, one each in Kigali, Butare and Kibungo. The number of cattle
slaughtered at the Kigali slaughter house has increased steadily in recent
years from about 7,000 head per year in 1975 to about 13,000 in 1980. The
market for sheep and goats has also increased significantly. There remains
a very limited market for high gradle meat in Rwanda; this high quality beef
sells for RF 70/kg liveweight. Animals for this market, about 40-50
animals per month, come mainly f'rom the Rusumo breeding ranch, which was
started in the late 1960s and expanded under the BGM Phase I project (para
2.15). There is an important and growing unofficial export of cattle to
neighboring countries.
C. Development Ob,jectives and Constraints
1.16      The three major objectives of Rwanda's third Five-Year Plan
(1982-86) are (i) to increase agricultural productivity through erosion
control, diffusion of selected seeds combined with improved farming
practices and integration of livestock and agriculture; (ii) to increase
general employment, and (iii) to achieve a satisfactory balance between
foodcrop and export crop production.
1.17      The future development of agriculture in Rwanda is limited by the
shortage of cultivable land. Increases in foodcrop production over the
past decade have been largely achieved through extension of cultivation of
poorer quality land previously devoted to pastoral and forestry uses. This
alternative will soon be exhausted, and increased production in the future



-7-
will have to come from intensification of agriculture.  Intensification
efforts require particular attention to soil fertility and erosion
control. In the past, crop rotation, together with long fallow periods,
helped to preserve soil fertility; however, during the last 30 years,
population pressure on land has resulted in the fallow period being
gradually reduced and declining soil fertility. Agricultural research in
Rwanda has demonstrated that yields can be increased by using improved
seeds, by intercropping bananas with pulses, and by applying soil
conservation techniques. In general, however, much more work needs to be
done to develop more productive varieties and to improve cultivation
methods at the traditional farm level. In addition, more efficient ways of
distributing improved inputs must be introduced.
1.18      The constraints to achieving agricultural development objectives
are financial and institutional as well as technical. The budget for the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development remains small in
comparison to the priorities attached to this sector. The combined
development and ordinary budgets for the Ministry represent only 7% of the
total government budget in 1981 and recent years. Ongoing support
services need strengthening, project planning and implementation require
greater coordination, monitoring and feedback. Although not included in
the Government budget, external aid to the agricultural sector is
substantial; in 1980, external donors contributed about US$26 million in
combined capital investments and technical assistance. This is equal to
more than twice the Government budget allocated to agriculture (in 1980: RF
1,079 million or US$11.7 million). To date, there has been a lack of
effective coordination and monitoring of donor-financed projects. One of
the results of this problem is the fact that projects remain isolated and
important experience and results are not efficiently disseminated.
Improved-statistics collection, wider dissemination .of new information,
including research and other project results, and more systematic
procurement and financial monitoring of expenditures are all esential to
strengthening the Ministry's capacity to direct development efforts.
Some measures have been taken recently to strengthen project monitoring and
data collection within the Ministry; however, overall planning and
coordination needs improving to better employ government and other
developmental resources.
D. Government Services
1.19      Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development.  The Ministry
is responsible for virtually all activities related to agriculture and
livestock in Rwanda. The Minister is assisted by a Secretary General, who
coordinates and oversees the activities of the Secretariat and of the four
operating departments: Agronomy, Rural Engineering and Soil Conservation,
Livestock and Lands. The Secretariat includes a small Studies and Projects
Division, and three departments (archives, budget management, and agrarian
reform). The Agronomy Department is divided into the Extension Department,
essentially concerned with agricultural extension and plant protection, and
the Forestry and Water Resources Department. The Rural Engineering (Génie
Rural) and Soil Conservation Department prepares marshland reclamation
projects and provides some topographic services. The Livestock Department
is responsible for the Veterinary Services and for promoting animal
production. The Land Department supervises land registration and
allocation. In addition, the Ministry operates a Selected Seed Service
(SSS) (para. 1.22) and oversees the activities of six autonomous



-8-
parastatal companies:  the Office for Industrial Crops-Coffee (OCIR-Cafe);
the Office for Industrial Crops-Tea (OCIR-Thé); the Office of Pyrethrum
(OPYRWA); the Office for the Development and Marketing of Food Crops and
Livestock Production (OPROVIA); the Office for the Development of the
Mutara Regions (OVAPAM), the imp].ementing agency for the Mutara Project,
and the National Research Instituite, ISAR (Institut des Sciences
Agronomiques du Rwanda). The Miniistry has over 2,000 staff, most of whom
are agricultural extension personnel (about 1,500) or veterinary field
personnel (about 400), operating in the prefectures and communes.
Agricultural Research
1.20      ISAR is headquartered at Rubona and is responsible for
agricultural and livestock research. ISAR is organized into four technical
departments: crops (including trees), animal production, laboratory
investigations (încluding plaint protection) and environment improvement.
Through 1981, ISAR was supported mainly by Belgian aid, and received
limited funds from the International Development Research Center
(IDRC-Canada) for research on sorghum, triticale (a wheat-like grain), and
oil-seed crop breeding. The Swiss are providing assistance in forestry,
and the IDA-financed Lake Kivu Coffee and Fooderop Project (Cr.1066-RW) îs
supporting coffee and some foodcrop research. ISAR manages five research
stations: Rubona Songa, Ruhande, Rwerere, Aamate and Karama and employs
about 1,000 workers, 35 technicians and 14 Rwandese agronomists. Some 18
expatriate agronomists are also working at ISAR, financed by various
bilateral aid agencies. Research efforts at ISAR have resulted în improved
standards of husbandry for îndusltrial crops, particularly pyrethrum, tea
and coffee, and the introduction of Mexican wheat, Nortao and Triticale,
now ready for widespread tests. ISAR has also introduced new bean
varieties, the Un Demi and Bataaf, the Palmetto and Oden soybean varieties,
and trials are underway covering a number of new maize and sweet potatoes
varieties. It has worked on blight resistant potato varieties, virus
resistant manioc varieties and initroduced grafted avocado trees. However,
with the exception of the International Potato Program (CIP), the results
of ISAR's program have not yet been widely diffused to farmers. Up to now,
ISAR's program has lacked socio-economic studies of farm systems and
adaptive trials on farmers' fieldls, and thus, research efforts have been
conducted in isolation with few :Links to the traditional farming context.
These problems are beginning to be addressed, and intercropping trials of
common crop mixtures are now being carried out at Rubona and on farmers'
fields in collaboration with the German bilateral aid project at
Nyabisindu.  Apart from actuaL research, ISAR has provided technical
supervision of tsetse control programs in the Kibungo Prefecture,
supervised the setting up of a 24 ha irrigation project at the Karama
station and has collaborated with IITA, CIP, CIMMYT and IDRC of Canada in
seminars sponsored by these inst:Ltutes. A number of Rwandese have been
sent to these institutes for training.
1.21      The World Bank (RMEA) iLs currently assisting the Government to
organize a seminar in Decembeir 1982 to evaluate the present status of
research in Rwanda and to define the scope of future efforts. Participants
will include research personnel of the major international research
institutions and other relevanit research programs and representatives of
the donor community. One of ithe intended results of the seminar would be
the identification of a national research project for possible Bank and/or
other donor financing in early 1983. The project would, in addition to



-9-
defining research priorities, address the need to improve the links between
research and extension and the need to substantially strengthen the
management and organization of research in Rwanda. Administrative problems
at ISAR resulting from lack of a separate legal identity and high personnel
turnover would also be addressed.
The Selected Seed Service
1.22      Rwanda's foodcrop seed selection and multiplication service, the
Service de Semences Selectionées (SSS), was created in 1971, and has been
primarily supported by Belgian Aid since that time. The main seeds
produced are beans, sorghum, maize, peas and vegetables.  ISAR provides
foundation seed, which is multiplied by the SSS in five centers located in
different ecological zones. The varieties currently distributed have been
selected to improve yields with low or no fertilizer inputs and to be
tolerant or resistant to the predominant diseases. The mandate of the SSS
is to produce selected seed and supply the 10 prefectures and 143 communes
for further multiplication and the production of commercial seed. However,
the present level of services falls far short of these objectives, because:
i) ISAR is often unable to proviut. the foundation seed due to lack of
resources and limited staff; ii) the SSS has a limited budget and
insufficient personnel for the t?sk; and iii) the communes lack the
necessary personnel, facilities and organization for seed multiplication
and distribution. As a consequence, the SSS reaches only about 4% of
potential users. A recent FAO s-udy has proposed a program for SSS which
would address these constraints. The proposals are being reviewed by a
number of donors for possible fi'ancing.
Agricultural Training
1.23      The shortage of trained manpower for the implementation of
development projects remains an important constraint in Rwanda. Three
institutions are responsible for providing post-secondary agricultural
training. The Agronomy Faculty of the National University of Rwanda at
Butare is being developed with Canadian aid to train agricultural engineers
and veterinary assistants; the first class of four students graduated in
1977. The School of Agriculture in Butare, largely supported by French
technical assistance, operates a f^ur-year post-secondary course. It
trains 10-25 agricultural technicians (A2) and 10-15 assistant level
veterinarians and veterinarians (A"' each year. The Nyagahanga School in
the Byumba Prefecture trains women agricultural technicians for field
positions; the first class of aboat 30 students graduated in 1980. In
January 1980, the Rubilizi Training Center near Kigali began a two-year
training program for lower level 'A3) assistant zootechnicians and
veterinarians. This center was financed under the BGM Phase I project.
The first class of 56 students graduated in January 1982.
Rural Credit
1.24      Credit to rural sector is very limited at present.  Some credit
is channelled through the People's Banks (Banques Populaires), which
provide an important channel for rural savings and which make loans to
cooperatives and individuals for working-capital needs and other small
investments for housing improvement, transport, and a few agricultural and
livestock inputs. The Banques Populaires, which are supported primarily by
Swiss Technical Assistance, hav' now built up substantial rural deposits
and an active presence in rural communities through the establishment of
about 60 branches throughout t'le country. Branch staff are limited in



-10-
number but well-trained and have succeeded in establishing the confidence
of the rural population due to theîr financially prudent policies and
provision of regular banking services for rural savings. The lending
policies of the Banques Populaires have remained conservative due to the
risky nature of rural credit to small holders; however, they are beginning
to seek collaborative arrangements with agriculture development projects to
provide the technical backstoppine required for increased lending in
agriculture. An experimental credit program was begun under the BGM I
project. This program would be transferred to the Banques Populaires in a
follow-up phase (see para 3.15). Credit is relatively well-organized for
the coffee sub-sector and finances the four phases of coffee operations:
î) collection of parchment coffee; ii) purchase and hulling by Rwandex;
iii) storage; and iv) exporta. For the f irst stage, banks and savinge
institutions are authorized to fivwnce licensed Rwandese traders,
cooperatives and parastatals. The latter three phases are financed by a
consortium of local banks.
Nutrition and Family Planning Services
1.25      In recognition of Rwanda's high population growth rate (3.6%
p.a.), its limited resources and a stagnant, if not deteriorating, standard
of living for the population, the Government has recently taken a number of
steps to begin to address the population problem. These include most
notably the creation of a National nopulation Office (ONAPO) in mid-1981,
and Government efforts to seek the assistance of international
organizations în developing programLs for family planning education,
training and service delivery. ONAPO has a broad mandate to define a
national population policy, to initiate demographic research and to
coordinate the implementation of f'amily planning programs. In this effort,
it will have to work closely with the llinistry of Health, the Ministry of
Social Affairs and Rural Development and other non-governmental
organizations active in social and health services.
1.26      ONAPO is still in the early stages of organization.  It currently
hIas about 15 higher-level staff members, most of whom have been seconded
from the Ministry of Social Affairs.  ONAPO's management committee, which
is chaired by the Secretary-General of cocial Affairs, was appointed in
late 1981 and has just begun to meet regularly. It is expected to approve
a budget, work program and staffing plan by August 1982. A number of
international organizations have agreed to provide assistance to ONAPO.
The United Nations Fund for Population activities will support a medical
adviser to ONAPO for three years starting in 1982, and will also undertake
a fertility study in 1982. USAID will provide US$6 million over five years
starting in 1982 for the design of educational materials, training of
medical personnel and social workers, purchase of contraceptives,
construction of four health centers and implementation of a broad training
program. The International Planned Parenehood Federation provides ONAPO
with contraceptives.  The Pathfinder Func, with USAID financing, will
operate pilot clinics in three urban areip. Under the proposed Project,
ONAPO will be assisted to develop amd tef-4 a service delivery and outreach
program suitable for rural areas (paras '.21-3.23). The Birenga and Rukira
communes in the Gisaka Migongo region of -lie Project area would be used as
the pilot area.



-. 1-
1.27      Nutrition centers in Rwanda, numbering 132, are largely run by
non-governmental organizations, mainly church-related, and supported
indirectly by the Ministry of Social Affatrs and Cooperative Development.
Currently, 89 of these centers participate in the Catholic Relief Services'
(CRS) Child Food Supplement Program; under this program, CRS provides
assistance  in child nutrition monitoring systems and general curriculum
development for the centers' nutrition and family health education
programs. Official participation of the s-ommune is limited to the
provision of land for the centers and the Palary of a: least one social
worker (monitrice); in each prefecture, a doctor or social worker is
responsible for coordinating health and n-trition activities. There are 24
nutritional centers in the Kibungo and Kieali prefectures, which include
the six communes ln the Project area. During 1980, these centers together
monitored the health of 17,500 children, or about 725 per center, on a
monthly basis. Participating families ar^ required to attend a 4-6 hour
session at the nutrition center once a mo-th. About half of these centers
are located in the Project area.  Personn-1 from these centers established
informal coordination with regional project staff under the BGM I
project, and would be supported under the proposed Project (para 3.20).
Local Administration
1.28      The local administrative structure is extensive in Rwanda and
îs being increasingly used to channel development services to the rural
population. Rwanda is divided into 10 prefectures, each headed by a
Prefect, who is appointed by the President on the recommendation of the
Minister of Interior. Prefectures are divided into communes (usually 10 -
16 per prefecture), headed by a Bourgemesvre, also appointed by the
President. Each of the 143 communes is divided into sectors (10-14 per
commune), and each sector is subdivîded into cells (normally 6 - 10 per
sector, except in the Bugesera region, where there are between 10 - 20
cells per sector). Each cell comprises 50 to 60 families. The commune is
governed by a "Conseil de Commune" made up of one elected representative
from each sector (the Sector Chief) and the Bourgmestre;  Sector Chiefs
serve for five years.  Every five years the cells elect a committee of
five, which in turn, elects a chairman.  'ince a month the cell committees
meet with the sector chief.  The Conseil de Commune meets once a week.
Each commune has a Development Committee made up of government civil
servants working in the commune who are responsible for defining
development priorities. In addition, there is a small Technical
Commission, composed of communal agents working in technical services.
1.29      The communes are juridically autonomous and financially
responsible for the total costs of local administration and a participation
in the support of a number of technical agents (agricultural and social
extension workers) at the level of the commune. A communal budget for
operating expenses and development projects is prepared on an annual basis
and submitted to the Ministry of Interior. The commune is supposed to
finance its budgeted activities through the levy of annual taxes on adult
males (RF400), cattie (RF250/head), bicycles (RF120), market stall rentals
(RF300), and various other local taxes and contribution campaigas for
special projects. In practice, tax collection is not well organized and
local administration of revenues is weak and inefficient. Most communes
are unable to meet the expenses of their operating budgets, and local
development projects remain largely unfinanced unless these are included



-12-
in a national project (financed by the Governrment development budget, by
private non-governmental organizations or through bilateral and
multinational assistance). As a result, communal personnel not directly
financed by the government budget or outside sources are poorly and
irregularly paid, many posts remain vacant, and local logistic support for
development activities is thin and noorly supervised.
1.30      Each Rwandese adult man and woman is required to work a half day
week on a community, or umuganda, project. Projects are selected by the
communal council and include construction of feeder roads, bridges,
installation of drinking water systems. Participation in umuganda
activities is not uniform, but in a"eas where the Bourgmestre is dynamic,
achievements have been substantial.
Il. TH". PROJECT AREA
General
2.01      The BGM Phase Il Project would be implemented in the same areas
as the first phase project, covering a total area of about 3,000 km2 (See
IBRD Maps 15961, 15966, 15967). It includes three communes in the Kigali
Prefecture, Gashora, Kanzenze and Ngenda (the Bugesera Region), and three
communes in the Kibungo Prefecture, Birenga, Migongo and Rusumo (the Gisaka
Migongo Region). Through 1970, tbe presence of tsetse fly inhibited
settlement in these areas; however, the tsetse fly was brought under
control in most of Bugesera by 1970, and in a large part of Gisaka Migongo
by 1975. Given the low fertility ai-d adverse rainfall conditions
prevailing in the semi-arid zones, much of the land is most suited for
grazing.  Despite these difficult conditions, beginning in the early 1970s,
these regions began nevertheless to be heavily settled by farmer immigrants
from other densely populated areas of Rwanda. According to recent studies
of the Project area (1980-19'1) by the Institut Africain et Mauricien de
Statistique et d'Economie Appliqué (IAMSEA), the population of the Bugesera
region in 1980 was about lq/;,OOO ancl in the Gisaka Migongo region, about
125,000. The study also n.i'ted that these two regions had been heavily
settled in the past decade; according to IAMSEA statistics, population
increases (largely due to .tigratîon) in these two regions between 1973 and
1981 was 160% (20% p.a.) in the Bugesera and 92% (12% p.a.) in the Gisaka
Migongo region; the average population density in 1980 was about 230
inhabitants/km2 in Bugesera and 153 inhabitants/km2 in Gisaka Migongo.
Settlers in these areas have come principally from the densely populated
areas of Gikongoro, Ruhengeri and Byumba, and over half the population in
1980 was estimated to be less thaLn 10 years old.
2.02      The Bugesera and Gisaka Migongo regions lie in the Eastern Plains
zone of Rwanda, characterized by relatively level topography with low hills
and broad valleys. The elevation of the upland area is between 1,500 and
1,700 m, while the valle-s, bordering on large swamps and lakes, lie
between 1,300 and 1,500 w. This zone is the driest part of Rwanda, with
annual average rainfall -anging from 700-1,000 m falling in two seasons,



-13-
February-May and September-December. Ground water reserves are limited.
Land use in the Project area is roughly as follows:
Bugesera          Gisaka Migongo    %
'000 ha     %        '000 ha
Cultivated areas
Coffee growing                 84        39         50           30
Semi-Arid                      32        26         22           13
Grazing land                        12        10          20          12
Forestry land                       17        19         50           30
No productive potential              13       il          25          15
Total                               TM_         1-6 7-       100
The cropping areas can be divided into coffee growing and semi-arid zones.
Farmers migrated to these areas from the regions of the Central Highlands
and brought with them agricultural practices and cropping patterns poorly
adapted to the semi-arid zones (i.e. cultivation of bananas, coffee, and
long-cycle maize).  The situation is different from that found in the
semi-arid areas of West Africa, where relatively well-adapted and stable
farming systems have been developed by farmers over many generations.
Consequently, there is an urgent need to identify crops and cropping
patterns adapted to the semi-arid zones of Project area and to determine
whether farmers can grow a sufficient level of staple food for subsistence
on plots ranging in size from 2.0 to 2.5 ha while maintaining minimum soui
fertility.
A. The Bugesera Region
2.03      The Bugesera (See Map IBRD 15967) region is bordered on the West
by the Akagera River, on the North and East by the Nyanbarango River and
swamps, and to the South by Lakes Cyohoha and Rugwero and Burundi.
Settlement of this region has been rapid over the past 15 years. The
European Development Fund (FED) was active in the development of certain
zones in this area, introducing paysannats in the northern part of
Kanzenze, in the west of Ngenda and the south of Gashora in the early
70s. The preparation report for the BGM I project envisaged settling all
this area as paysannats, but spontaneous immigration from other areas in
Rwanda in the last decade preempted this option.
2.04      Soils and Climate.  The soils in the northwest of Bugesera and
those bordering the Akanyaru to the south are schist with quartzite
layers. These soils, accounting for about one-third of the Bugesera
region, are relatively fertile and conducive to coffee growing, which was
introduced to the area 15 years ago. Rainfall averages between 900-1000
mm/year and is fairly regular over the two rainy seasons. The soils in the
remaining two-thirds of Bugesera, the semi-arid zones, are derived from
granite and gneiss; they are generally poor in fertility and ill-suited to
farming. Narrow bands of more fertile and heavier alluvial soils border
the numerous lakes and swamps in the semi-arid zone of Bugesera. These
soils would be suitable for irrigated crop production, but they are
scattered, limited in area and would require costly punping. Average
annual rainfall in this area is only about 850 mm and is highly variable
from month-to-month, although two rainy seasons (November to December and



-14-
January to May) can be distinguished.  It is estimated that 60% of the rain
falls in amounts of less than 5 mm. The natural vegetation in the area la
wooded savannah and pasture, but both are fast disappearing under the
pressure of population increase. Groundwater resources în southern
Bugesera are limited.
2.05      Agriculture.  As is the case throughout Rwanda, crop production
in the Bugesera region is mainly for subsistence. In the more fertile part
of Bugesera, the average farmer produces coffee, bananas, cassava, sweet
potatoes, beans, sorghum and on occasion maize and groundnuts. In the
semi-arid regions, primarily cassava and sweet potatoes with beans,
groundnuts and sorghum are produced. Crop yields are generally poor due to
low soil fertility, the lack of appropriate varieties and the primitive
level of farming practices of recent settlers.  Charcoal production from
acacia trees is the major source of cash income. Cash crops are
infrequently grown in the drier part of Bugesera; however, in a few years,
when the forest resources will have disappeared, some cash crop substitutes
will have to be found.  Sisal, macadamia and guar beans could be considered
for this environment.
2.06      Infrastructure.  Economic and social infrastructure in Bugesera
is still limited in comparison to the rest of Rwanda. There is only one
sizeable commercial center at Nyamata and two Banques Popularîes, one at
the communal headquarters of Ngenda and one at the project headquarters of
Gashora.  A regional development center, consisting of a number of staff
houses and garage/storage facilities, was constructed at Gashora under the
first phase of the BGM project.  Other construction included 10
agro-veterinary centers (PAVs) for the dissemination of agricultural inputs
and veterinary services, three schools and two health centers. The area
has six primary schools and 10 health centers financed and operated by
non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the Karama research station, and a
military ranch which borders on Burundi. The FED-financed paysannats in
the communes of Kanzenze and Ngenda and the northern part of Gashora are
served by a pumped water distribution system. In the remainder of the
Bugesera region, inhabitants walk distances as great as six kilometers for
water.  Presently, the Bugesera region can only be reached from Kigali from
a drift crossing over the Nyabarongo river.  A combination drift/bridge
over the Akanya flood plain, which will permit direct access between
Bugesera and Butare, is presently under construction. There are no paved
roads in Bugesera, and the roads and tracks are in poor condition, often
impassable during the rainy months.
B. The Gisaka Migongo Region
2.07      The Gisaka Migongo region (see map IBRD 15966) comprises the
eastern part of the project area. It includes three of the nine communes
in the Kibungo Prefecture: Birenga, with a population density of about 264
inhabitants per km2, and Rusumo and Rukira, the largest communes in Rwanda
in terms of area with average population densities of about 75
inhabitants/km2. The area is bound on the north by the Akagera National
Park and to the east and south by the Akagera River, which forms Rwanda's
border with Tanzania. In the late 60s and early 70s, the International
Association for Rural Development (AIDR) implemented an integrated
development effort covering the more fertile zones of the Kibungo
Prefecture with Belgian financing. This effort was limited to crop
development, farmer training and the organization of producer cooperatives.



-15-
2.08      The Gisaka Migongo region can be roughly divided into five areas:
(i) Gisaka North, covering the northern part of Birenga, is a largely
settled, fertile area above 1,500 m; (ii) Gisaka South is an area below
1,500 m, and currently about 75% of the land is already settled; soils are
relatively fertile, but the poor state of the roads and tracks have made
much of the area inaccessible; (iii) the Rusumo basin, includes the Rusumo
breeding ranch and the Rusumo paysannat, both initiated with Belgian
assistance in the mid-1960s .  This area is similar în soils and climate to
the semi-arid region of Bugesera; (iv) the corridor, also a semi-arid zone,
extends f rom the lake region to the Rusumo basin, along the Akagera
valley.  Tsetse is still prevalent in parts of the corridor. Discussions
are presently underway for the development of a sugar scheme on about 3,000
ha of marshland just south of the corridor. There are some pockets of
fertile land in the corridor with good potential for agricultur., but
because of low rainfall and prohibitive costs of pumping water fer
irrigation, this area is mainly suitable for extensive grazïng; and (v) the
Lake area, a lowland savannah area of mixed soils; 600 ha of vertisol soîls
around the borders of the lakes Nasho and Rwehikowa have potential for
irrigated rice cultivation. A preliminary investigation of the potential
for an irrigated rice scheme is currently being carried out by a team of
Chinese irrigation specialists under the financing of the BGM I project.
Sols and Climate
2.09      Soils in this region are derived from granites, gneiss, schists,
dolerites, and quartzites which give rise to a wide range of soil types.
Due to the high iron content of many of these soîls and progressive
laterization, lateritic hard pans and outcrops are f requent, particularly
on ridges near the escarpment, which separates the upland from the
lowerregion. In the lower altitude areas, colluvium and alluvial deposits
of the Akagera river have created large areas of relatively fertile soils.
A soil survey carried out by ISAR (mid-1970) indicates that two-thirds of
the soils in Gisaka South, about one-half the soils in the Akagera Valley
and one-third along the lake are suitable for crop production. However,
with the exception of parts of Gisaka South, where rainfall is more
regular, low and unpredictable rainfall limits the agricultural potential
on these relatively fertile soils. Gisaka North has a pronounced dry
season of four to five months and average rainfall of 700-1,000 mm.
Irrigation would be  necessary to fully exploit the cropping potential of
r      this area.  The natural vegetation is the wooded savannah type with acacia
as the dominant tree species. Different combinations of grasses are
indicative of variations in soîl quality. Hyparrhenia species indicate, in
general, good soils. The poorer soils, with association of Loudetia
simplex and Eragrostis species, have been classified as suitable for
grazing.
2.10      Agriculture.  As in Bugesera, crop production in Gisaka Migongo
is generally for subsistence. In Gisaka North, coffee is grown as the main
cash crop. Bananas, beans and groundauts are the dominant fooderops. With
the exception of coffee, the same crops are found in Gisaka South.  Cassava
and sweet potatoes, along with beans, sorghum and groundnuts are cultivated
in the semi-arid zones. As in Bugesera, crop yields in these zones are
poor because of the absence of well-adapted varieties and improved farming
practices. To provide for a minimum amount of cash income, most farmers in
the Gisaka Migongo region sell or barter mainly banana beer and groundauts.



-16-
2.11      Infrastructure.  The regi.on is accessible from a good paved road,
leading from Kigali to the TanzaniaL border at the Rusumo Falls. The
network serving Gisaka North is relatively well-developed; however, in the
rest of the region, road infrast:ructure is badly in need of upgrading.
Much of Gisaka South is still inaccessible; opening of this area will
require construction of two 8mall bridges and several key accese roads.
The roads linking the south with Gisaka North and the circular road of
Rukira-Mpiga-Gitwe-Rukira are in veiry poor condition. The region is served
by three Banques Populaires, one in Kibongo and one at the communal
headquarters of Rukira and Rusumo. A regional development center, similar
to the one at Bugesera, was constructed under the first BGM project near
the prefectorial headquarters at Kibongo.   Eleven agro-veterinary (PAys)
centers were also built under the BGM I project along with three schools
and two health centers. The area has seven primary schools and seven
health centers, which are operated by NGOs. The Nasho fattening ranch
occupies about 7,200 ha, (6,000 of which are exploitable) and the Rusumo
breeding ranch, about 5,600 ha. The commune of Rusumo is relatively well
served by a gravity water system; however, in Birenga and Rukira, there is
little surface water, because of low rainfall and the quantzite composition
of the soils. The personnel resources and the financial state of the
communes are, like those of the Bugesera region, extremely weak.
C. The Bugesera Gisaka Migongo Project - Phase I (Cr.668-RW)
2.12      The Bugesera Est, Gisaka Migongo Project (Phase I) was approved
by the Board on December 14, 1976, and became effective in November 1977.
BADEA and the FAC participated in co-financing this project with IDA.
Initially, the project area included two communes in the Bugesera Region
(Kigali Prefecture), Gashora and Ngenda, and part of a third, Kanzenze,
plus the three communes in the Gisaka Migongo Region (Kibongo Prefecture),
Birenga, Rukira and Rusumo. In late 1978, the Government proposed and IDA
agreed to add all of the commune of Kanzenze, and the project name was
subsequently changed to the Bugesera Gisaka Migongo to reflect the
inclusion of the whole of the Bugesera region.
Project Objectives
2.13      The BGM I project, building on previous interventions of the FED
and AIDR in the project area, was designed as a five-year program
(1977-1982) to develop essential infrastructure and improve rural services
in the communes of the project area. It was intended that all project
activities, including planning and execution, would be fully integrated
with regional administrative structures. The project was implemented
through annual work plans, which were prepared by the Project Unit in
Kigali and approved by IDA. The principal planned investments included:
(i) development of rural services, including crop and livestock extension
and agriculture training; (ii) t1vo ranches for steer fattening and the
expansion of the Rusumo breeding ranch; (iii) two regional development
centers with training facilities, a number of agro-veterinary support



-17-
centers (PAVs)1/, and staff housing; (iv) water infrastructure and feeder
roads; (v) three schools; (vi) six health centers; and (vii) a pilot
irrigation scheme to assess the potential for irrigated agriculture in the
Nasho area. Project activities were to be managed by seven full-time,
internationally-recruited specialists plus one agricultural and one
livestock specialist for the Rubilizi Training Center.
Performance
2.14      Extension.  The two regional centers, responsible for organizing
and supervising extension activities, were not fully staffed until late
1980, and the systematic implementation of extension activities did not
begin until 1981. The two expatriate Regional Directors and an expatriate
Project Director who were hired in late 1977, all agronomists, spent a
disproportionate amount of their time during the first 3½ years supervising
a sizeable construction program. In addition, much project staff effort
was dissipated on peripheral activities such as rabbit and poultry rearing,
fishing, vegetable cultivation in river valleys, pineapple production and
sporadic marketing efforts which affected relatively small numbers of
farmers and which, for the most part, were uneconomic and required heavy
subsidies. Despite these factors, certain important extension activities
had been organized by early 1981. These included the distribution of
fruit, coffee and forest tree nurseries, the introduction of soy beans, the
intercropping of beans with bananas, the introduction of improved fodder
grasses on bunds, a credit program for improved livestock, and the
introduction of certain soil conservation measures specifically adapted to
farmer plots.
2.15      Veterinary Program, Fattening Ranches and the Rusumo Breeding
Ranch. The livestock program had three sub-components: (i) animal health;
TtïTextension, which included the diffusion of upgraded stock and improved
pasture management; and (iii) ranching. Implementation was hampered by the
lack of skilled technicians and inadequate attention to staff training.
Extension personnel were not sufficiently qualified to advise farmers on
animal health care and as a result, the mortality rate for the cross-breeds
distributed was unacceptably high. Efforts to improve pasture management,
through organization of controlled grazing zones, have only recently begun
under the BGM I project, but appear promising. The Nasho fattening ranch
was designed as an interim operation to inhibit spontaneous settlement
until a suitable area development plan could be designed for the Lake Nasho
area. The Gako fattening ranch was designed to exploit unused land
adjacent to the military camp in the region. While the presence of the
ranches partially met planned objectives, neither proved financially
viable. The area available for ranching had been over-estimated at
appraisal, and the carrying capacity at Nasho proved to be 2,000 head, not
8,000. At the Gako ranch, only 2,300 ha out of 7,000 ha were developed due
1/   The PAV was designed as an agricultural and livestock services center
covering several (3-4) sectors. It consists of a veterinary
dispensary and spray treatment corridor, stud service, agricultural
produce storeroom, a small classroom and two small staff houses for a
veterinarian and an agronomist. The PAV concept was developed,
because the unusually large size of the communes in the Project region
made it impossible for most of the area farmers to benefit from the
limited services provided in the centralized headquarters of the
commune.



-18-
to a lack of water; subsequently, even these 2,300 ha became unusable, due
to the recession of the lake from which water had been pumped. Commercial
operations were unsucceseful due to the limited market for high quality
beef. Assistance to the breeding ranch at Rusumo encountered initial
setbacks due to the frequent transfer of ranch managers; however, the area
is appropriate for a breeding ranch, and the operation, when effectively
managed, would not require a Government subsidy.
2.16      Rural Infrastructure Program.  Project staff were successful in
achieving the objectives of the sizable building program. Given the
logistics involved and the difficulty of access to some of the areas, this
was done wîth considerable speed. Headquarters in Kigali and the two
regional centers, staff housing and 20 PAVs were completed. Project staff
did not, however, meet appraisal expectatîons for the feeder roads program;
only 10% of appraisal estimates have been achieved for this component. The
social infrastructure has been completed, although the staffing and
provisioning of the health centers encountered delays, because the
financial responsibility of the communes was not clearly agreed prior to
construction. Development of the water supply for the eastern part of
Bugesera will also have met appraisal estimates by the end of Phase I
(December 1982).
2.17      Research.  Given the marginal soils, and limited rainfall in much
of the Project area and the fact that very little research had been carried
out on semi-arid cropping, a major research component should have been
included in the first phase project. Inadequate attention to this was
given at preparation and appraisal, and the need for research in these
areas was not addressed until mid-1981. Apart from limited trials on the
regional center plots, no significant research was contemplated or included
in the annual work plans. Irrigation trials in the Nasho area were
provided in the project design, but were never carried out as project and
ISAR staff could not reach agreement on respective responsibilities for
implementation.
2.18      Staff Training.  The scarcity of qualified Rwandese agricul-
turalists and livestock personnel, combined with the slow start-up of
training activities, contributed to delays in effective implementation of
many activities planned for the first phase project. The training
specialist did not arrive until October 1979, two years after Credit
effectiveness; and only one training specialist was recruited, not two, as
had been envisaged at appraisal. The Rubilizi Training Center was
initially planned to train veterinary extension personnel for the project.
It was completed in late 1979, and transformed into a national veterinary
extension officer training center.  The first class from the school's
two-year program graduated in January 1982, but the impact of this program
will not begin to be felt until 1983.  Regular follow-up of training  for
communal extension personnel only began at the regional centers in
mid-1981.
2.19      Project Planning and Management.  A Project Coordinating
Committee, including representatives of all ministries concerned, was
responsible for overall project implementation and coordination. The
Committee served as a relatively effective instrument of coordination
between ministries; day-to-day responsibility for implementation was
delegated to the Project Unit in Kigali and staff in the two regional
development centers. Project activities were planned and carried out in
accordance with annual work plans prepared largely by the expatriate staff



-19-
in Kigali and approved by the Coordinating Committee and by IDA. A major
problem with the structure of project management as it was conceived (and
reinforced by various factors, including the delays in local staffing,
training and the organizational demands of the expanded construction
program) was that project field staff were poorly integrated into the
planning and review of activities and that there was very little
involvement of communal administration during most of project imple-
mentation. This problem has been somewhat remedied by the fact that: (i)
project infrastructure is now mostly completed and the focus of management
is on extension activities; (ii) the Rwandese staff trained under the
project assumed full management responsibiliLy in mid-1981; and (iii)
planning and implementation responsibilities are now the primary
responsibilities of staff in the regional centers working directly with
communal authorities and local structures.  Annual work plans for 1982 were
initiated at the regional centers, with assistance from the Project
Coordinator and the Kigali bureau financial staff.
2.20        Monitoring and Evaluation and Economic Rate of Return.  Many of
the activities aimed at increasing production in the project area did not
effectively begin until the end of 1980. In addition, it is difficult to
measure the impact of the project on agricultural production, as there was
no baseline survey taken at the beginning and no systematic monitoring
during implementation. It is clear at this stage that project activities
will not yield the expected benefits; however, it is also evident that the
appraisal underestimated the complexity of the project and that many of the
actions carried out during implementation were essential prerequisites for
the long-term development of the regions. The project financed the
construction of two regional poles of development and the critical training
of administrative and technical staff. The project established a number of
agro-veterinary centers to serve agriculture and livestock activities in an
extensive area where there had been essentially no rural services.
Detailed information about the different sub-areas of the project zone and
their populations have now been documented in the IAMSEA studies (para.
2.01) on the project area which will allow a more thorough approach to the
development of both regions during a second phase, and it is now clearly
understood that development of the area's potential will require a
long-term sustained effort. Phase I is expected to be completed in
December 1982. The Closing Date is September 30, 1982, and, as of December
31, 1981, 90% of the Credit had been disbursed.
2.21         In appraising the second phase Project, various changes in the
design and management of proposed Project activities have been planned in
light of experience of the first phase project and other rural development
projects in Rwanda. First, the Project would support the development of
applied research on crops for the semi-arid zones of the Project area and
farm systems research to enhance the transfer of proven technologies (seeds
and cultivation methods) and the introduction of new research results, as
they are identified, into the traditional farming system. All research
efforts would be directed by ISAR from the Karama Station in the Project
area, and close links would be established by the Project agronomists and
field extension staff to strengthen the two-way research and extension
process. Secondly, there would be a major emphasis on extension staff
training and the establishment of local demonstrations on farmers plots
reinforced by a system of input services and routine follow-up by extension
agents. Thirdly, livestock activities would be organized around self-help
groups of livestock owners; veterinary services would be dispensed on a
cash basis, and other Project investments would be strictly complementary



-20-
to organized initiatives of livestock owners. More emphasis would be
placed on the introduction of smalL stock as a substitute for cattle.
Limited investments would be provided to bring the Rusumo breeding ranch
up to a self-sustaining level of production; commercial ranching operations
at Nasho and Gako would be phased out and other solutions sought to exploit
the resources of these areas. Fourthly, the Project would support the
activities of nutrition centers in the Project area in order to more
effectively integrate rural women into agricultural extension training.
Fifthly, a pilot family planning program vould be launched in two communes
to test effective methoda of disseminating family planning information.
Sixthly, rural feeder roads would lbe improved and several bridges built to
facilitate transportation and to open up hitherto isolated parts of the
Project area. All road construction would be implemented and building
construction supervised by the Ministry of Public Works in order to leave
other Project field staff free to concentrate on activities related to a
increasing agricultural and livestoDck production (para. 4.10). Finally,
regional Project livestock and agricultural activities would be planned,
implemented and monitored by Project staff working through regional and
communal officials and leaders.  Annual work plans for these activities
would be initiated at the regional level by a committee made up of the
Prefect of the region, regional Project staff, the communal bourgemestres
and other governmental technical staff posted in the regions (para. 4.11).
Specific arrangements have been designed to monitor all Project activities,
including placing of a Project monitoring officer in the studies bureau of
the Ministry of Agriculture who would monitor the effectiveness of Project
interventions (paras. 3.26 - 3.27).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept
3.01      The proposed Project is viewed as the second phase of a long-term
program to develop the productive potential of the Bugesera and Gisaka
Migongo regions. The first phase project, along with other efforts to date
in these areas, established a base of esential infrastructure, trained a
cadre of technical and management staff and helped to provide a direction
and sense of strategy for numerous development possibilities of the area.
The second phase Project would consolidate some of the actions begun under
the first phase and concentrate on the development of viable services for
the rural population of the area. In addition, the Project would initiate
certain other activities, such as semi-arid and farms systems research,
road improvement and family planning services, which would contribute in
the medium and long-term to increased productivity and living standards of
the rural population in these ragions. The specific extension themes and
the combination of Project investments reflect the consideration of a
number of important features of the Project area, including: (i) about 50%
of the land area in each of the two zones is semi-arid, grazing or forest
land; (ii) given increasing population pressure, control of erosion and
overgrazing by all possible measures is essential to retain the productive
potential of the soils; (iii) national research efforts to date have not
put sufficient emphasis on semi-ariLd crop development or adaption of
research results to traditional farming systems; tested improved varieties
are not systematically disseminated and research efforts to identify new
technical packages need to be strengthened; (iv) most of the inhabitants in
the Project area have migrated iEromi more fertile areas of Rwanda over the
past 10 years; their crop preferences and agricultural techniques are often
not appropriate to the semi-arid zones; and (v) local government structures



-21-
are weaker in this area than elsewhere in Rwanda. The size of the
communes, and therefore the distance to be covered by communal agents, is
twice or three times that of other communes in the country; and (vi)
circulation in the area is constrained by the limited and poor state of the
rural road network.
3.02      The primary objectives of the second phase Project would be to
work with the rural population to: (i) carry out research trials and
introduce new cropping techniques and varieties for the semi-arid areas;
(ii) promote conservation to prevent loss of soil fertility; (iii)
integrate on-farm crop and livestock activities and promote small stock
where appropriate; (iv) intensify cultivation of cash and foodcrops in
areas of average and above average potential; (v) improve rural roads; and
(vi) improve nutrition standards and expanded awareness of family planning
alternatives. A further objective would be to develop the project planning
and implementation capacity of the prefectures, sub-prefectures and the
communes. Several non-governmental organizations working in the Project
area would assist in the implementation of certain Project activities,
i.e. the Banques Populaires would administer all agricultural credit;
INADES-Rwanda, a Jesuit-sponsored local training group, would be contracted
to assist with agricultural extension staff training; and Catholic Relief
Services and other church-related groups would continue to support and
supervise nutrition center activities and new efforts to increase rural
women s access to family health education and improved agricultural
practices.
3.03      The Project would be implemented over a five-year period
(1983-1987). It would include support for the following:
(a) semi-arid crop development through applied and adaptive
research;
(b)  strengthening extension support services through:
i)   improvement of in-service training, establishment of
local demonstrations and organization of a service
network for cropping and livestock activities;
ii)  promotion of an improved seed multiplication program; a
tree nursery and distribution program for coffee, fruit
and forest trees; a program to improve soil fertility
through stall-feeding and compost production and
erosion control measures; promotion of improved methods
of coffee plantation maintenance and organization of
pest control campaigns; and
iii) training for cooperative management and technical
support for agricultural credit;
(c)  livestock activities:  support for the Rusumo breeding
ranch and a program for upgrading local sheep and goat
stock;
(d)  the Rubilizi Training Center for assistant-level (A3)
zootechnicians;



-22-
(e) nutrition center activities and development of a pilot
family planning program in the Project area;
(f) rural roads construction and improvement; and
(g) monitoring and evaluation and studies.
B. Detailed Features
Semi-arid Crop Development and Farm Systems Research
3.04      The Project would support ISAR's research activities at ISAR's
Karama Station in the Bugesera region. A research program focused mainly
on foodcrops has been carried out: at this station for over fifteen years.
However, trials have been based exclusively on the more fertile alluvial
soils adjacent to the lake, and not on the semi-arid plateau soils, where
most'of the recent settlement is concentrated. The research program would
aim to: (i) develop improved and more disease-resistant varieties for the
major crops (bananas, sorghum, beans, cassava, sweet potatoes, groundnuts
and soy) to be grown as intercrops as well as single stand crops; (ii)
identify improved agronomic practices for the major existing crops which
are consistent wîth the capabilities and circumstances of local farmers;
(iii) develop land management and cropping systems to increase or maintain
soil fertility on different soil types; (iv) test combinations of improved
food crop and cultural practices on farmers' plots; and (v) provide
training for Rwandese research staff in areas related to the agronomic and
farm systems program to be carried out at Karama.  The International
Institute for Tropical Agriculture in Ibadan, Nigeria (IITA) would provide
the technical assistance for this component (para. 4.02). The overall
program of research at Karama Station will be reviewed in conjunction with
the preparation of a national research seminar to be held in December 1982
(para. 1.21). The technical assistance for this component will be involved
in reviewing the recommendations of the seminar and assisting to reorient,
where necessary, other ongoing research efforts at Karama in order to
assist ISAR in building an adequate program for semi-arid and farms systems
research. Investments would include two cars and tractors with trailers
for the Karama Station, three pickups, operating costs, housing, laboratory
equipment, the costs of short-term consultants, training, inputs, and other
related research costs.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
ISAR, in consultation with the IITA research specialists, would prepare a
five-year work plan to be submitted within three months of the research
specialists' arrival in Rwanda to IDA for approval. In addition, ISAR
would submit, by September 15 of each year, a progress report covering the
12-month period ending September 30 and a detailed annual work plan for the
following calendar year.
Improvement of Extension Support Services
3.05      There are currently about 50 agricultural and livestock extension
agents working in the Bugesera region and another 50 working in the Gisaka
Migongo region. In addition, there are 20 staff working in the PAVs.
Project activities would focus on improving the technical training of
extension workers and logistic support to this personnel and for the
activities they oversee (see paras. 4.04 - 4.06 for organization of
extension services). Eighteen sectors, three per commune in both regions,



-23-
have been selected for intensive assistance. These 18 sectors were
identified as the most responsive to innovation promoted under the first
phase project. Salaries of 18 additional extension agents would be
financed under the Project to reinforce activities in these sectors.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) the communal
administration and the Government would, over the Project period, maintain
the number of extension agents and other Project personnel at the staffing
level in January 1982 and ii) the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
would continue to provide one agronomist and one veterinarian per commune
in the Project Area.
3.06      Staff Training.  Training programs would be carried out to
upgrade the skills of the extension staff, the staff of the regional
centers and the PAVs, as well as the technical staff of the communes in the
Project area. Training programs for extension staff would be organized
regionally by the Regional Training Director assisted by an inter-
nationally-recruited Training/Extension Specialist stationed in each of the
regional centers.  The pretectorial and regionai agronomists woulu as*±bL
with the training of the communal agronomists and veterinary officers, the
PAV staff, and the sector-level extension agents. INADES-Rwanda, a
Jesuit-supported organization, which has developed excellent teaching
materials in the local language, would collaborate with Project staff in
preparing and conducting short courses for extension and selected other
communal staff. Investments would be for preparation of teaching material,
transport and other costs associated with short training courses.
3.07      Crop Extension Activities.  Extension themes would focus on
introduction of improved varieties and improved cultural practices, erosion
control, preservation of soil fertility, intensification of foodcrop, fruit
tree and coffee production, reforestation and livestock management.
Extension agents would also assist in the establishment of a network of
demonstration plots, particularly in sectors selected for intensive
assistance. Provision would be made for extension agents, PAV personnel
and communal personnel to visit other projects in Rwanda to study their
extension programs. Principal investment items would be five additional
PAVs (two in Gisaka Migongo and three in Bugesera), housing for the
communal agronomist and communal veterinarian, tools and inputs for seed
multiplication and tree nurseries, salaries and other operating costs. By
using an adapted training and visit extension system, a continuous
interaction with research would be developed, providing year-by-year
improvements to extension programs.
3.08      Livestock Extension Activities would revolve around local groups
of livestock farmers, a limited number of which were formed under the first
phase project. These groups will be assisted by extension and PAV
personnel to gradually assume the management of dipping tanks and spray
races in the Project area. Together with PAV agents, these associations
would organize anti-tick dips and prevention campaigns, buying the
necessary veterinary supplies (anti-worm and anti-tick products, vaccines)
from a nearby PAV; they would continue to work with the PAV veterinarY
agents to ensure regular inspection of their herds and flocks. Project
staff would help these associations to run the PAV stud services, limit
graznng on communal lands to the optimum carrying capacities, and
distribute plant material for pasture improvement. Genetic upgrading of
the herd would be addressed through selective sale of improved breeding
stock. Investments would be primarily: initial and incremental investments



-24-
in a revolving fund for veterinary supplies to be purchased by livestock
owners; transport costs for the destocking of 5,000 animals in connection
with the establishment of maximum herd size on small, controlled pasture
areas; and construction materials for two cattle dips, 20 spray races and
about 50 watering points. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
(i) Government would, by September 1, 1982, submit to IDA a detailed plan
and procedures for the progressive increase of charges applicable to all
veterinary medicines dispensed in Rwanda and (ii) take all necesary
measures to ensure that livestock owners would be charged as follows: 70%
of the full cost of such medicines beginning January 1, 1983, 80% beginning
January 1, 1984, 90% beginning 1985 and 100% beginning January 1, 1986.
Progress in the implementation of this policy would be a criteria for IDA
approval of related expenditures im the annual work plans. Formal
contracts between livestock owners and communal authorities on the
participation and obligations in the management of controlled pasture areas
would be submitted to the Regional Development Committees as a precondition
for the inclusion of investments for small pasture improvement and related
destocking efforts in proposed annual work plans.
3.09      Production and Distribution of Selected Foodcrop Seeds and
Cuttings.  A major objective of thE  extension program would be the
introduction of improved seeds on a wide scale (para. 5.01). Two
multiplication centers, one in each region, would be used for the first
multiplication.  These centers wou.d procure foundation seeds from the SSS
(para 1.22) and other sources. Seeds to be multiplied include soy beans,
maize, beans and groundnuts. In the Bugesera region, the seed
multiplication center would be at the PAV of Musenyi; maize would be
multiplied for both regions at the irrigated perimeter at Karutete, near
the Bugesera regional center. In Gisaka Migongo, seed multiplication would
take place at the regional center. A second multiplication would be
carried out on selected farms around the PAVs of Musenyi in Bugesera and
Kirehe in Gisaka Migongo; both PAVs are located in zones selected for
intensive extension activities. After each multiplication, seeds will be
transported to the regional center for drying, selection and treatment. A
regional Seed Officer will be responsible for ordering seeds from the SSS,
(or elsewhere if they are not available at the SSS) and multiplying these
at the regional centers. Seeds will be sold to these seed contract farmers
at 20% above the prevailing market price. At harvest time, over a period
not to exceed one month, seeds would be purchased from these same farmers
at a premium of 20% above prevailing market prices. A special revolving
fund would be established for this purpose; the Seed Officer and the
Regional Accountant would be responsible for this fund. At planting time,
selected seeds would be sold through the PAVs. Cuttings of sweet potatoes
and cassava would be procured directly from ISAR and multiplied first by
Project staff at a selected number of PAVs and then by selected farmers.
Cuttings would be distributed free of charge. Investments include seeds,
tools, nursery preparation, a revolving fund for seed purchases, and
salaries of one winnower for each region. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Government would, by September 15, 1983, establish prices
for selected seeds produced under the Project which would allow recovery of
the production and distribution costs of such seeds, provided that these
prices are sufficiently attractive to encourage farmers to buy the seeds.
3.10      Forest and Fruit Tree Production.  Due to the critical shortage
of fuelwood in most of the Project area, a systematic program would be
developed to make additional treecrop material available to farmers.



-25-
Through the extension services, farmers would receive fuelwood and
leguminous treecrop planting material for planting along farm boundaries,
in contour bunds and on patches of poor land unsuitable for crop
production. Although leguminous trees (see para 5.03) are less efficient
firewood producers than eucalyptus, they do not compete with foodcrops;
they increase soil fertilîty and are easily uprooted for subsequent use of
the soil after it has been rejuvenated. Fruit tree varieties to be
distributed include mainly avocados, papaya, and guava. One tree nursery
per sector and one central nursery at the regional center was established
under the first phase project. These nurseries produce tree crops, fruit
trees, and fodder crops. At present, day laborers, hired with project
funds, are responsible for planting seedbeds and watering.  Communal labor
is responsible for general nursery maintenance, and individual farmers weed
the seedbeds, transplant seedlings from the seedbeds to plastic tubes
provided by the project and maintain the plants in the tubes until they are
ready for distribution.  Under the second phase Project, 40,000 forest tree
seedlings and 4,000 fruit tree seedlings would be produced annually in each
nursery. Two to four ares per nursery would be used for the propagation of
grasses for fodder and erosion control bunds. Seed for coffee and forest
trees would be obtained from ISAR at its Rubona Station; seeds for fruit
trees and grasses are available in the Project area. It is estimated that
over the life of the Project, every farm family in the Project zone would
plant an average of 30 forest trees and three fruit trees. Since the
quality of labor and nursery management varies from sector to sector,
Project staff, working with communal authorities and farmers' groups, would
review and strengthen the organization of work in the nurseries and set up
a system of regular follow-up to ensure tree production and distribution
targets are met. Project investments would be for seeds and wages for
nursery attendants. Tree seedlings would be distributed to farmers free of
charge.
3.11        The coffee improvement program would consist of the production
and distribution of about 300,000 seedlings per year from existing tree
nurseries in the Project area. In keeping with Government policy, these
seedlings would be distributed only to replace dead or unproductive trees
in existing plantations. Coffee improvement themes to be promoted under the
extension program include: (i) planting of grasses for mulching and
erosion control; (ii) proper pruning and planting densities; (lii)
organization of pest control campaigns; and (iv) proper maintenance of the
hand-pulping centers in the Project area. OCIR-Café presently provides
pesticides and recovers the cost through a remuneration tax received from
Government after the export of coffee beans. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that OCIR-Café would continue to provide quantities of
pesticides to the Project area at a minimum of the 1981 levels for the
duration of the Project period. Investments would include costs associated
with the production of seedlings and a small revolving fund for the sale of
saws and pruning tools to farmers.
3.12      The Erosion Control Program would seek to control soil erosion
and soil degradation which has resulted from a combination of overgrazing
and lack of effective erosion control measures. Extension agents would
continue to work with farmers to establish contour bunds. The spacing of
the bunds would depend on the slope of the land; on average, 500 m of bunds
are required per farm of one hectare.  Planting material, useful grasses
and perennial leguminous plants would be planted in nurseries at the cell
level. In addition to assisting farmers to plant small family woodlots,



-26-
the Project staff, working wïth communal leaders, would organize the
reforestation of about 30 ha per year wïth paid labor. The location of
these samall plantations would be selected by the Regional Development
Committee, and priority would be given to areas where the threat of soil
erosion is most critical.
3.13      Stall-feeding and Compostî .  About two-thirds of the farmers in
the Project area have some livestock, either cattle or goats. These
animals graze mainly on communal lands and along roadsides. Encouraging
results have been obtained with part-time stall feeding using fodder from
anti-erosion bunds and crop residues. The manure produced would be
composted with other organic material, such as bean stalks, banana leaves
and coffee pulp in compost pits. Extension agents would help farmers with
construction of animal stalle and compost pits.
3.14      Assistance to farmer associations begun under the BGM I project
would be continued wth increased ephasis on financial management
training. It is Government policy to encourage the formation of
cooperatives, and thereby, to strengthen farmers' capacity to provide local
storage, processing and marketing services. The cooperative movement in
Rwanda is relatively young and is stïll highly dependent on the services of
the Minîstry of Social Affaira and Rural Development and the organization
and subsidized transport and storage activîties of both governmental and
non-governmental projects in the rural areas. At present, there are about
10 formal cooperatives in the Gisakia Migongo region, but none in the
Bugesera region. Rovever, there arie close to 100 farmers' associations
(groupements) in the Project area with limited, but specific, eeonomic and
social objectives. During the second phase, Project staff efforts would be
concentrated on introducing simple mnanagement techniques appropriate to
activities of the cooperatives and farmers' associations, trainîng and
monîtoring bookkeepers and assisting these self-help groups to plan and
tirlement marketing, storage, retailing, and other economic activities.
The Project staff would facilitate cooperatives' contacts with transporters
and prlvate or government marketing outlets. As regards local foodcrop
storage, Project staff would particLpate in informal, on-the-job training
sessions wîth the national storage and marketing parastatal, GRENARWA, and
the cooperative training and silo programs of the Ministry of Social
Af fairs and Cooperative Development. Modest pilot storage efforts would be
developed in areas where working-capital requirements can be raised from
the local community and where cooperative staff have been trained in
storage techniques and basic inventory accounting. Project staff will also
assist cooperatives and farmers' associations to assess the feasibility of
economic activities suggested by thesse groups. Where feasible proposals
exist, Project staff will assist farmers' groups tO prepare loan requests
for possible financing by the Banquas Populaires. Investments would
include salaries and transport indemnities for two Cooperative Agents, and
expenditures associated wîth on-the-job training of Project staff and
cooperative management.
3.15      Agricultural Credit in the Project zone has remained limited in
total volume due to the shortage of attractive investments, the lack of
farmers' experience with credit, and the limited market. The BGM I project
managed a small credit component for the purchase of cows for stall-feeding
("eermette" program), poultry, smal:l cooperative collection stores, fishing



-27-
gear and tackle, and corrugated roofing material. About 600 loans were
approved through June 1981, amounting to approximately FR 5.8 million
(US$64,000). Credit recovery was generally high (about 75%); this was
largely due to project staff's direct involvement in marketing related
produce and in careful supervision of the use of credit funds. There are
six Banques Populaires in the Project area with a large membership of local
farmers, who, at present, use the Banques primarily as a savings
institution. The Banques Populaires are beginning to increase their
lending operations in agriculture and have agreed to collaborate with the
Project staff in the second phase. Local savings deposits of the Banques
Populaires are adequate to finance a modest investment program in the
Project area (para. 1.24); their ongoing promotion emphasizes the links
between savings and credit. Under the Project, all credit would be managed
by the local Banques Populaires, and the role of Project staff would be
limited to technical assistance for preparation and review of credit
applications and follow-up of agricultural investments. All financial
review, approval and loan collection functions would remain the
jurisdiction of the Banques Populaires. The elements of coordination
between Project staff and the Banques Populaires have been defined in a
protocole d'accord signed February 8, 1982, between the Coordinating Bureau
of the Banques Populaires and the present BGM project management. Regular
Project extension staff with assistance from regional finance and
accounting staff will provide technical support for credit promotion; there
would be no other specific investments associated with this program.
Livestock Ranches and Small Stock Promotion
3.16      Support for the Rusumo Breeding Station.  The Rusumo breeding
ranch, started with Belgian financing in the late 1960s, was expanded under
the first phase of the BGM project. The ranch covers a total area of 5,200
ha, of which 4,200 are exploitable. Under the BGM I project, the ranch
management focused on: i) the production of quality heifers (Ankole-Sahiwal
crosses) for distribution to farmers and the production of quality bulls
for the stud services in the PAVs, and ii) the production of beef cattle
and culled cows for the Kigali slaughter house. With pasture improvements
and purchase of additional breeding stock to be completed by the end of
1985, the ranch's capacity could be increased from its present level of
about 2,300 animals to its maximum potential of about 3,500. With a herd
of this size, the ranch, if well managed, could be expected to generate
revenues sufficient to cover its operating costs (including depreciation).
Investments and support for operating expenditures through 1985 would
include: labor costs for construction of firebreaks, bush clearing, the
purchase of additional animals, and incremental working capital for
salaries, supplies and vehicle operation. In order to provide for the
ranch to be run as a self-sustaining operation, the Project Financial
Advisor would set up separate commercial accounts for all ranch operations
beginning in 1983 and train one of the Project accountants stationed in
Gisaka Migongo regional headquarters to keep these accounts. A separate
bank account would be opened in 1982 for Rusumo operations. Revenues
generated from the sale of livestock would remain in the Rusumo account for
financing of ranch operations, and accounts for all expenditures and
revenues relating to Rusumo would be maintained separately by'a designated
Project accountant.



--28-
3.17      Small Stock Improvement Program.  Sheep and goat rearing is
important in the Project area. Onily 31% of the population in Bugesera and
50% in Gisaka own cattle, but an estimated 64% in each zone own sheep or
goats. The proposed small stock program has two aspects, genetic upgrading
and the distribution of improved stock. The genetic upgrading of goats
will be centered at ISAR Karama, and of sheep at ISAR Rubona. Investments
would include the importation of 40 pure-bred female sheep and 10 pure-bred
males and equal numbers of pure-bred goats to constitute pure-bred herds of
sheep and goats, construction of a goat pen at Karama and training in
Europe for assistant veterinarians who would assist in running the
program. As the first step of the improved goat distribution program,
Project staff would establish a breecling flock of about 150
Jocally-selected female goats, at the Nasho ranch. As improved goat
breedi,E has alieady been started on a limited  basis at ISAR Karama, stud
stock will be integrated into the Prcject herd during 1983. Project staff
will select and treat the offspring of the flock beginning in the first
Project year. Investments would include construction of a goat pen at
Nasho, veterinary products and incremLental staff salaries. The initial
local flock of goats will be purchased during the last year of the first
phase project. For sheep, in the early years of the Project, Project staff
will run a sheep "transit" program to buy, treat and select local sheep.
Establishment of a multiplication herd in the Project area must await the
results of sheep-breeding trials which is expected to begin at ISAR Rubona
in 1982. It is expected that by 1984, Project staff would be able to
launch a sheep breeding program based at Nasho, and funds have been
rrovided for this activity. Investments would include purchase of 300
locally-selected breeding females and 10 improved rams from ISAR's flock,
veterinary supplies, salaries and associated transport costs.
3.18      Nasho Beef Production Ranch.  Beef production activities at Nasho
Ranch would be phased out during the first two years of the Project (see
para. 2.15). Livestock operations have proven to be uneconomic. During
appraisal of the proposed Project, it was decided to discontinue beef
production and to sell off the remaining herd of about 1,600 animals by the
end of 1984. The remaining infrastructure would serve the sheep and goat
breeding activities to be developed under the Project (para 3.17). There
are no incremental costs associated with this activity.
Rubilizi Training Center
3.19      The Rubilizi Training Center for A3-level (basic level extension
agents with six years of primary education) veterinary staff was
established under the Ministry of Agriculture in 1979, and financed with
funds from BGM I project (para. 2.18). It is the only school of its kind
in Rwanda, with a unique training curriculum and methodology geared
specifically for the requirements of veterinary extension work. In
accordance with the recent National Educational Reform, all agricultural
training schools are to be transferred from the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Agriculture to that of the Ministry of Primary and Secondary
Education.  The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education, which
certifies all training schools in Rwanida and issues all diplomas, is
presently conducting a review of the Rubilizi curriculum to determine the
school's eligibility for certification. Preliminary results of this review
are positive. The first class of 56 students graduated in January 1982 and
are being placed in the BGM and other development projects to replace



-29-
underqualified veterinary assistants. There remains a critical shortage of
veterinary skills in the country, and the proposed Project would finance
costs associated with curriculum modifications recommended by the recent
commission of the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education and the
operating costs, excluding teachers' salaries, of Rubilizi through 1984.
At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would take
all administrative and financial measures necessary to continue the
functioning of Rubilizi by January 1985 at the latest and to maintain the
pedagogical level of the school at least at the level attained in January
1982.
t        Nutrition Center Support Program
3.20      In the second phase, the nutrition centers in the Project area
would be more systematically integrated into general Project training and
agricultural extension activities. Funds would be provided for the
construction of four new nutrition centers and essential repairs to a
limited number of the existing centers. New centers would be constructed
only as complements to existing health facilities. In addition, prior to
budgeting new construction in the regional annual work plans, communal
authorities would be required to off icially designate an adequate plot of
land and commit resources for the support of at least one social worker
(monitrice) for the center. Arrangements for the staffing of the centers
by the Ministry of Social Affairs and non-governmental organizations would
also need to be confirmed prior to IDA approval of expenditures for new
construction. Staff of nutrition centers in the Project area would be
helped to strengthen and expand their existing programs in the areas of:
(i) agriculture, by introducing wider use of selected seeds ,and improved
cropping techniques; (ii) small livestock, particularly rabbit, sheep and
goat breeding activities; (iii) family planning education, by supporting
training for center personnel and providing teaching materials; and
(iv) family water supply, by supplementing a CRS-initiated water catchment
program which provides the cement for small, domestic cisterns constructed
by farmers under the direction of center personnel. Investments woudrd
include construction, water tanks, agricultural tools, teaching mater-jals,
provision of working-capital for seeds, the purchase small stock, and
provision of two bicycles to each center to facilitate outreach work of
center personnel.
Pilot Family Planning Program
3.21      Family planning services are virtually non-existent in the rural
areas of Rwanda.  Only about 40 Rwandese medical and para-medical personnel
have received formal training in family planning and, until recently, there
has been no political support for family planning. Some religious
missions, which operate a large proportion of rural health facilities,
advocate only natural methods of birth control and there is strong social
pressure in Rwanda for large families.  Nonetheless, the few family
planning facilities currently offering services have experienced steadily
growing demand. Pilot activities in the Project zone would assist
Government in developing strategies for providing information and services



-30-
to the rural population. The results of the pilot activities would help in
determining the appropriate level of personnel and facilites for efficient
service delivery, the most acceptable family planning methods, the type of
information which is most effective, and the profile of personnel which
should be used to provide information and counseling to rural families.
The major investments for these activities would include: construction of a
small family planning clinic as an annex to the Government hospital in
Kibungo, three small passenger cars, six motorcycles, recruitment of a
Family Planning Advisor and short-term consultants for surveys and studies,
training expenses and supplies.
3.22      The Goverament  hospital in Kibungo wculd serve as the base for
family planning serviceL, and outreach activities in the communes of Birenga             A
and Rukira. One of the doctors at Kibungo hospital would be named as the
Project's medical supervisor and would deliver family planning services,
train nurses and nurses-aides, and supervise the program. The doctor would
be assisted by a nurse-midwife with full-time responsibility for
maternal/child health and family planning services. One nurse's aide at
the health centers at Rukira and Birenga would provide services and conduct
motivational and educational activities under the supervision of
nurse-midwife. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Ministry
of Health would assign these key medical personnel to the proposed family
planning services. A small family health center would be built at Kibungo
hospital, consisting of consulting rooms and a semi-enclosed waiting area
to be used for talks and demonstrations.  This facility would be used for
both family planning and MCH/prenatal clinic activities.  Such a center is
critically needed, as the present facilities for the prenatal clinic are
quite inadequate; at present, medical examinations for family planning,
IUD insertions, and other related services are accommodated in the
overcrowded maternity facility at Kibungo whenever space is available.
3.23      Educational activities would be carried out primarily by Ministry
of Social Affairs personnel. There are two social development centers in
the Rukira commune and five in Birenga. Several social workers are based
at each center, and they would receive training in family planning outreach
and referral. Nutrition Center personnel presently teach natural methods
of birth control, but in some cases are reluctant to encourage artificial
methods on account of their religious convictions. To the extent feasible,
the Ministry of Social Affairs' monitrices working in the nutrition centers
would be trained to provide comprehesive f amily planning information.  The
chief social worker of the Kibungo Prefecture would supervise these
activities and work closely with the medical supervisor. In the Rukira
commune, an additional cadre of outreach workers (ten men and ten women)
would be trained by Project staff to provide family planning and health
information in their communities. They would receive a small service
indemnity financed by the Project. Training for all the other workers
would be carried out by ONAPO under the USAID-financed training programs;
the USAID project is expected to provide ONAPO with required information
materials. The support and participation of the local political leaders
will be required. The Prefect of Kibungo, a member of ONAPO's
administrative council, will assist in arranging information sessions for
community leaders in the Project area.



-31-
3.24      The program's advisor, an internationally-recruited family
planning specialist, would design and execute studies and surveys and be
responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of the component. These
studies would compare knowledge and use of family planning and related
health services before and after program interventions to determine the
effectiveness of the special outreach workers in the commune of Rukira.
Studies on attitudes toward health, children, and family planning in the
pilot area would be carried out to help orient the training and information
programs. A system for recording service statistics for family planning
activities at the hospital and dispensaries would be elaborated.
Rural Road Construction
3.25      Improvement of the feeder road network would help to stimulate
increased production in the Project area. At present, trade is restricted
by the poor state of many of these roads. Traders are concentrated
primarily along the major transportation axes, and farmers have particular
difficulties getting their produce out of many areas during the rainy
seasons. The selection of road sections to be constructed and improved and
the costing of related investments were worked out by a senior technical
assistant in the Ministry of Public Works in collaboration with the BGM I
project staff; proposals for this component were reviewed by IDA's East
Africa Highways Division, who would supervise this component.   Under the
Project, one road brigade would be financed to work in Bugesera for two
years and Gisaka Migongo for three years. In Bugesera, two floating
bridges, one at Mewza (400 m) and one at Mareva (250 m), plus new road
construction of 12 km, heavy improvement of 61 km and light improvement of
existing tracks of 7 km are planned. In Gisaka, the completion of three
small bridges are planned, along with new construction of 14 km, heavy
împrovement of 94 km and light improvement of 30 km. All road work would
be carried out by the Roads Department of the Ministry of Public Works.
Roads selected for improvement would be constructed using labor-intensive
methods. Investments would be for equipment and materials, costs of labor
and supervisory staff, spare parts and fuel.
Monitoring and Evaluation and Studies
3.26      Monitoring of extension activities and their impact on farmers'
attitudes, practices and their agricultural and livestock productivity
would be established as a permanent Project activity; the resulting
evaluations would be reviewed annually and used to direct field efforts of
the extension system. There was no systematic monitoring of activities
during  the first phase project.  In May 1981, a socio-economic survey
commissioned as part of project preparation for the second phase and
carried out by IAMESA (see para. 2.01). Agricultural statistics for Rwanda
are, in general, extremely poor, and few project interventions in the
sector have been monitored to produce useful information for development
purposes.  To address this problem, USAID is currently financing an
Agricultural Survey Project to establish a small statistics unit, and over
the next five years, to carry out a national agricultural productivity
survey. French bilateral aid is also planning to finance a parallel
national consumption study. While these interventions will eventually
provide useful statistics on the Project area, additional monitoring is
required to systematically test the impact of the proposed Project
activities.  For this purpose, a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist will



-32-
be recruited under the Project to design approprîate baseline and follow-up
surveys and to train a amall team ito carry out regular monitoring
functions. This specîalit would lbe based in the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock. A baseline study would be carried out in early 1983 as this
unit's top priority. Key indicators for Project impact would be defined
for different interventions, and surveys would test for variations in the
sectors receiving intensified assistance (para. 3.05).
3.27      Monitoring of Famîly Nutrition.  In marginal and newly settled
areas, such as a large part of the Project area, the nutritional status of
the rural population may be expected to be below the country average due to
the fact that migrants' highland crops are often ill-adapted to the
semi-arid and lowland soils and climate and that the breaking in of new
soils is particularly demanding. The records of nutrition centers in the
Project area contain general information about the health of a small
sub-set of children in the Project area, but these records do not provide
any statistically useful picture of the general nutritional status or
trends. Short-term consultants would be hired to conduct a baseline
nutritional survey in 1983 and follow-up surveys in 1985 and 1987 as a
complement to the other, more production-oriented monitoring activities
under the Project.
3.28      Land Use Study.  A technîcal land use study, for the southern
Bugesera-Cyohoha area would be financed under the Project. During the
first phase project, substantial tracts of unsettled land were "frozen"
until comprehensive area development plans could be carried out. Two
livestock fattening ranches, one at Gako and another at Nasho (para. 2.17)
were set up as an interim measures. The ranching efforts dîd not prove to
be economically viable and the area studies were not undertaken. A
technical study of the Gako area would be carried out in 1983. During
negotiations, the terms of reference for the Bugesera-Cyohoha study were
discussed. Assurances were obtained that the terms of reference,
short-lists of consultants and the contracts for the study would be
approved by the Association. The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
plans to promote group ranching on the Nasho ranch in the near future.



-33-
C. Project Costs
3.29                Total costs are estimated at about RF 1,983 million (US$21.6
million), of which about 58% or about US$12.5 million, represent foreign
exchange costs. Details are summarized in the following table:
(RF 'Q00)                          (USI '00)              Z of
Foreign  2 of Total
Local       Foreign       Total       Local   Foreign   Total   Ex&unge Pase Costs
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
KIGALI: FINAM!CIAL COORDINATION                10.953.3   1589678.8   1697632.0    119.2  1.726.5  1845.6              93.5         11.4
BUGESERA: REGIONAL HANAGEMENT                  269678.3    609598.8    87p277.0    290.3    659.3    949.6              69.4          5.9
GISAKA MIGONGSû REGIONAL MANAGEMENT            27,003.3    60,598.8    87-602.0    293,8    659.3    953.1              69.2          5.9
Sub-Tot?l PROJECT MANAGEMET                        64,634.8   279M876.3   344,511.0    703.2  3t045.1  39748.4              81.2        23,3
B. EXTENSION ACTIVITIES
PUGESERA                                      116t166.9   102.067.6   218t234.5  1w263.9  1.110.5  2,374.4              46.8        14.7
GISAKA NI60NGO                                109,746.1   112,465.5   222,211.5  1;194.1  1.223.6  29417.7              50.6         15.0
Sub-Total EXTENSION ACTIVITIES                    225,913.0   214,533.1   440,446.0  2t458.0  29334.2  4.792.1             48.7         29.7
C. LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
RUSUMO RANCH                                     -698.5       6.278.5      5,580.0       -7.6      68-3       60.7    112.5          0.4
SHEEP AND GOAT PROM1TION                        8,283.2    23p410.8    31,694.0          90.1    254.7    344.8         73.9         2.1
Sub-Tota] LIVESTOCK DEVELOPKENT                     7,584.7    29,689.3    37,274,0          82.5    323.0    405.5        79.7          2.5
tl. RUPILIZI TRAIYING SCHOOL                        8,785.0    11,775.0    20,560.0          95.6    128.1    223.7        57.3          1.4
E. SEMI-ARID CROP RESEARCH                         47,648.0   142,317.0   189.965.0    518.4  1548.4  2,066.9             74.9         12.8
F. NUTRITION AND POPULATION
NUTRITION CENTER SUPPORT PROGRAN               10,242.8    20,212.3    30,455.0    111-4    219-9    331.4              66.4         2.1
PILOT FAMILY PLANNING FROGRAN                   8,796.3    41,058.8    49,855.0          95.7    446.7    542.4         82.4         3.4
Sub-Total NUTRITION AND POPULATION                 19,039.0    61.271.0    80S310.0    207.1    666.6    873.8             76.3          5.4
G. RURAL ROAD CDNSTRUCTION                        144,551.1   224.006.7   368,557.8  1,572.7  2,437.2  4,010.0             60-8         24.9
Total ?ASELINE COSTS                                518.lS.5   963.468.3 1,481.623.8  5,637.6 10,482.7 16,120.4               65.0       100.0
P'usical Continsencies                            44,476.2    58,374,1   102.850.3    483.9    635.1  19119.0             56-8          6.9
Price Contingencies                             270,746.8   127,M92.9   39G.339.7  2,945.8  1.388.2  4t334.0              32-0         26.9
Total PROJECT OOSTS                                 833,378,5 1.1499435.3 1,982,813.8  9,067.3 129506.1 21,573.4              58.0       133.8
May 13, 1982 0:o08
3.30                Project costs were estimated as of January 1982.  A physical
contingency of 15% on construction and civil works, 5% on staff costs,
training and general services and supplies, and 10% on all other costs was
applied to reflect uncertainties in the detailed scope of Project
investments. Price contingencies were calculated on the following basis:
local costs at 15% p. a. for 1982 to 1987; foreign exchange costs at the
rate of 8.5% p.a. in 1982, 7.5% p.a. for 1983 through for 1985 and 6% p.a.
thereafter. Taxes included in Project costs are negligible, since all
major items would be exempt from import duties and local taxes. Details of
Project costs are summarized in Table 1.



-34-
3.31      The financing of Project coste would be as follovw:
RF      US$    Z
--million-
Government of Rwanda       213      2.3    10.5
FAC                        275      3.0    14.0
IDA                      1,495    16.3    75.5
Total                    15983    21.6   100.0
__ _  -  .. 
3.32        The proposed IDA Credît of SDRs 14.5 million (US$ 16.3 million
equîvalent would be made to the Government of Rwanda on standard IDA                     J
terms. The Credit would finance 75.5% of total Project costs, including
76% of foreign exchange co0ts and about 75% (US$6.8 million equivalent) of
local coats. The Government of Rwanda would contribute about 10.5% of
total Project costa, consisting primarily of local salaries. Government
would pass on the proceeds of the IDA Credit and its own contribution to
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, the National Office of
Population (ONAPO), and the Ministry of Public Works. The FAC
contribution, (US$3.0 million equîvalent), representing about 14% of the
total Project costs (including about 24% of foreign exchange costs), would
be provided as a grant and would finance the salaries, travel, and local
support of three technical assistants for 5 years, 15 man months of a
financial advisor, 5 vehicles, and foreîgn exchange costs of veterinary
supplies and agricultural inputs. Of the above Project costs, the
Government of Rwanda has requested a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of
about US$935 thousand to meet the costs of procuring road-buîlding
equipment, building construction, and start-up of the family planning and
semi-arid research activities.
3.33      In order to assist the Government in pre-financîng expenditures
reimbursable under the IDA credit, a pre-financing revolving fund, similar
to that tnder the first phase project, would be maintained. An amount of
US$0.8 million equivalent (equal to about four months of disbursements less
those items to be disbursed for directly by IDA) would be financed under
the Project and established in a Project account in a commercial bank. IDA
would replenish the amount from the Credit account upon receîpt of evidence
of disbursements from the revolving fund for agreed expenditures (approved
in the Annual Work Plans).  In, the case of any disbursements made f rom the
revolving fund which prove to be unacceptable to IDA, Government would
deposit a corresponding amount in the Project account. During negotia-
tions, agreements were reached. on the terus and conditions for the
operation of and accounting for the revolving fund.
E. Procurement
3.34      Civil works contracts for construction of five PAVs, 15 houses
and facilities under the reseaLrch, nutrition and family planning
components, totalling about US $1.5 million (including contingencies) would
be awarded following local conmpetitive bidding procedures, which have been
found satisfactory.  These contracts would be generally small (maximum of
about US $20,000), geographically scattered and not readily grouped for
simultaneous tendering. Local. contractors are adequately qualified and
exist in sufficient numbers tc carry out the required works; foreign firms
can also participate in civil works contracts under local bîdding



-35-
procedures. Road construction equipment and materials, about US $450,000
(with contingencies) and tools and spare parts for road construction of
about US$600,000 (with contingencies), would be procured in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Other Project
vehicles and spare parts, totalling about US $800,000 (with contingencies)
would be procured over a 3-4 year period, not exceeding six vehicles at a
time, following selective tendering procedures of the borrower. Furniture
and equipment, tools and other agricultural and livestock inputs, totalling
about US $1.3 million (including contingencies) would be purchased through
local suppliers after at least two price quotations had been obtained.
Technical assistance and short-term consultant services for studies, totals
about US $3.2 million. The terms of reference, experience and
qualifications of technical assistance financed by the FAC would be
satisfactory to IDA. All other technical assistance would be hired in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for international recruitment and use
of consultants. With the exception of proposed contracts for Project
annual audits, all other proposals of technical assistance for
Project-financed activities would be evaluated in a manner assigning the
greatest weight to experience and qualifications of proposed technical
assistance. Assurances as to the above procurement procedures were
obtained at negotiations.
F. Disbursements
3.35      A breakdown of Credit funds by disbursement categories is given
below. For Project management purposes, separate disbursement categories
have been established for each implementing unit.
(a)  Category    I:  ISAR  -  Research Activities                   US$ '000
(i)   100% of foreign and 95% of local
expenditures on vehicles, technical
equipment and imported animals;                    300
(ii)   100% of foreign and 95% of local
expenditures on civil works and construction;    70
(iii)   100% of total expenditures for
technical assistance, training and studies;        800
(iv)   100% of foreign and 95% of local
expenditures on local salaries and fees,
vehicle and other operating costs, and
miscellaneous furniture and supplies;            1,200
(b)  Category   II:  ONAPO  -  Pilot Family Planning Program
(i)   100% of foreign and 95% of local
expenditures on vehicles and equipment;             50
(ii)   100% of foreign and 95% of local expenditures
on civil works and construction;                    70
(iii)   100% of total expenditures on technical
assistance, surveys and studies;                   150



-36-
(iv)   100% of foreign and 95% of local expenditures
on local salaries and fees, local training,
vehicles and other operating costs, and
miscellaneous supplies;                              350
(c) Category   III:  Ministry of Public Works - Rural Road
Construction
(i)   100% of foreign and 95% of local
expenditures f'or road building equipment;           200
(ii)   100% of foreign and 95% of local
expenditures f'or equipment parts and
operating cost:s;                                  1,800
(iii)   100% of total expenditures on technical
assistance;                                          300
(iv)   95% of total expenditures for local
salaries arnd f ees;                               2,500
(d)  Category   IV:  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock -
BGM II Regional and Kigali Staff
(i)   85% of f oreigrL and 95% of local
expenditures for vehicles and
veterinary supplies;                                 300
(ii)   100% of foreign and 95% of local
expenditures for civil works and
construction;                                      1,000
(iii)   35% of total expenditures on technical
assistance, surveys and studies;                     800
(iv)   of total experiditures on local staff
salaries and a.llowances: 85% in 1983,
65% in 1984, 5,0% in 1985, 40% in 1986, and
30% in 1987;                                       1,600
(v)   85% of foreign and 95% of local expenditures
on f urniture and equipment, local training
and all other operating costs;                     1,700
(e)  Category    V:  Ministry of Ag;riculture and Livestock -
Rubilizi Train.ing Center
(i)   100% of foreign aad 95% of local
expenditures cn staff salaries and other
operating costs.                                     140
(f)  Category   VI:  Refunding of the Project Preparation
Facility Advance                                     935
(g)  Category  VII:  Initial Deposit in Project Account                     800
(h)  Category VIII:  Unallocated.                                         1,435
Total Proposed IDA Credit                                           16,300



-37-
Disbursements would be f ully documented against all expenditures under
subeategories (i) and (iii) in (I) - (IV) categories and against all
foreign expenditures in subcategory (îi) in (1) - (IV) categories and
subeategory (v) in category (IV). Expenditures in all other subcategories
of (I) - (V) would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) and
certified by the BGM II Financial Dlirector for categories (I) and (IV), by
the HLead of the Bridges and Roads Department (Ministry of Public Works) for
(III), and by the ONAPO Project Director for (II). Statements of
expenditure would be retained by the management of each implementing
organization and made availiable for ïaspection by IDA in the course of
Project supervision. SOEs would be audited by the external auditors
selected for the Project. Assurances were obtaîned at negotiations that
all project expenditures would be documented according to the above
arrangements.
3.36      An estimated schedule of IDA disbursements is given in Table 3.
Regional disbursement profiles for area development and IDA-financed
agricultural projects and the disbursement experience of the BGM I project
were considered in preparing this schedule. Credit effectiveness for the
BGM I project was about one year behind appraisal estimates, but, once
effective, funds disbursed much faster than the average; 90% of Credit
funds had disbursed by the end of the fourth year from the date of
effectiveness. This performance appears to be the result of a combination
of factors, including: the establishment of an efficient project accounting
and f inancîal management systems early in the second year; planning and
discipline introduced by the requirement of annual work plans reviewed and
approved by IDA, and substantial infrastructure development and vehicle
expenditures which greatly exceeded appraisal estimates. The rate of
disbursement for the second phase Project is expected to be slower than
that of the f irst phase, but more rapid than the average, as given by the
disbursement profiles cited above. The working assumptions are that: (i)
the experience of the first phase has made it possible to appraise Project
costs and to plan implementation of various activities more carefully than
is the case in most new projects; ii) the majority of Project staff are
already in place, and financial management is well-established; iii)
planning and performance revîew will continue to be linked to detailed
annual work plans; and iv) Project management has been simplified
susbstantially by delegating implementation responsibilities for
non-extension activities, such as building, road construction, research and
famîly planning to separate agencies which have expertise in these areas.
G. Accounts and Audits
3.37      A good system of detaiLed accounting and monitoring of expenses
was established under the first phase project with the assistance of an
Internatîionally-recruited Financial Director. A core of project accounting
staff was trained under the first phase, and the Rwandese deputy to the
Financial Director was confirmed as the Project Financial Director as of
February 1, 1982. Responsibility for Project financial control would
continue to be based in the Kigali bureau for the first two years of the
Project. By 1985, this function would be decentralized to the two regions,
and a Financial Director would be appointed to each of the two regions
(para. 4.01). During the transitional period, 1983-1985, Project '



-38-
accounting in the two Project regional centers would be controlled on a
quarterly basis by Project accotntilng staff f rom Kiga lîo  A Financial
Advisor will be employed on a short-term basis (3 months per year, 1983-87)
to assist the Project financial staff.  Initially, the Advisor would help
ISAR and ONAPO to establish projper Project accounts; later, he would help
to establish the regionalîzation of flnancial control.  Due to the absence
of a Government auditor or qual.lfied Rwandeee audit firmes  the BGM I
project accounts were audited by f oreîgn f irms approved by IDA. Similar
contractual arrangements would be c¢ntinued under the second pllase Project.
3.38       Under the second phase ProjeCt, separate accounts would be kept
for all activities implemented by the Ministry of Public Works, and the
National Population Office (ONAPO).  The accourts for all other Project
activities, includîng Rubilizî and research (ISAR) would be maintained for
by the BGM Il financial staff. The Minîstry of Public Works has adequate
capacîty to maîntain project accourits; it has implemented four IDA roads
projects and is familiar with IDA reporting requirements and procedures.
ONAPO would be assisted by the Project Finarncial Advisor to establish
adequate accounts. Investments under the nutrition center support program
would be included in the regular accouats kept by each regional center.
Separate commercial accounts wilil be established for. Ru-,mi  Ranch
operations and kept by a designatecL Project accountant (para, 3.16). All
Project accounts would be audited annually. For all implementating
agencies, except the Ministry of Public Works, the Project Financial
Director would prepare requests for IDA reimbursements. At negotiations,
the above arrangements were discussed and assurances obtained that: (i)
separate Project accounts would be maîntained for activities carried out by
the Ministry of Public Works, ISAR, ONAPO, the two regioral centers, and,
during the two-year transitional period, the BGM Il Proeect staff in
Kigali; (ii) independent auditors aLcceptable to IDA would be employed to
audit all Project accounts and auditors would issue a separate statement on
the certification of expenditures incurred and regîstered under statements
of expenditures; and (iii) the audited accounts would be forwarded to IDA
no later than six months followilng the end of the f inancial year (December
31) to which they relate.
H. Project Completion Report
3.39       The BGM II Project management team would prepare a completion
report summarizing performance under the Project and evaluatïng progress
and problems.  The Ministry of Public Works, ONAPO and ISAR would
contribute as appropriate. This should be submitted to IDA not later than
six months after the expected closing date (ile. Julv 30, 1988), and
assurances to thîs effect were obtained at negotiations.
I. Environment Impact
3.40       Project activities are desîgnated to preserve the agricultural
potential of the Project zone. As in most part cf Rwanda, increasiîg
population pressure on the natural resources is leadLng tci a rapid decline
in soil fertility, deforestationi and erosion. The Project wiould address the
environmental problema of the area în several ways: (î) supporting an
agricultural research program to develop crop variet{es suited to the
semi-arid Project zones; (ii) promoting soil conservatlon  measures, family
woodlots, and stall-feeding of cattle("fermette programrn); and (Lii)
encouraging the preservation of small pasture areas through organizing
livestock owners to prevent overgrazing.  The small amounts of fertilizers
and pesticides envisaged for the Projecet extension activ'ties are not
expected to have any adverse envirc?nmentai impact.



-39-
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Coordinating Committee
4.01      Overall policy responsibility for Project implementation would be
vested in the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), established by
Presidential Decree under the first phase project (See Chart 1). This
committee formula has proven to be a useful mechanism for coordinating the
participation of different ministries in Project activities and a good
forum for discussing policy issues. The Committee would continue to be
chaired by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock and would include high ranking representatives of the principal
ministries involved in the Project, i.e. the Ministries of Finance, Social
Affairs and Community Development, Health, Public Works, Interior and
Planning. The Committee would coordinate and supervise the planning,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation of the Project. It would
meet at least once a quarter to monitor Project progress, resolve any major
implementation issues and approve annual work plans. The Committee would
delegate day-to-day Project implementation responsibilities to the two
Regional Directors. Local authorities would participate in the Project
through the Regional Development Committees to be set up in each region.
The Bridges and Roads Department of the Ministry of Public Works would
manage the rural roads component; ISAR would manage the applied research
program; and ONAPO, with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Community
Development and the Ministry of Health, would implement the pilot family
planning activities. Responsibility for implementation would be
decentralized to the regional centers under the second phase Project.
During a transitional period of no longer than two years, the post of
Project Coordinator would be maintained, and the posts of Project Financial
Director and Livestock Coordinator would remain centralized in Kigali. The
role of the Project Coordinator during the transitional period would be to
ensure that the implementation of the Project activities conforms to the
detailed Annual Plans. By end 1984, it is envisaged that the Kigali bureau
would be eliminated and a Financial Director and Livestock Coordinator
would be appointed to each of the two regional centers.
B. Management of Project Components
4.02      Research Component.  All activities under this component would be
implemented by ISAR. The technical programs of the Plant Improvement and
Farms Systems Specialists and their respective support staff would be
defined and reviewed regularly by the appropriate Department Heads and the
Director-General of ISAR. The Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) has
agreed to provide two research specialists and provide them with technical
back stopping. ISAR, coordinating with IITA, would be responsible for
elaborating detailed annual work plans for the specialist teams and for
reviewing these plans with the BGM II Project management in the regional
centers prior to the formal submission of these plans to the PCC in early
September of each year(para 4.11). The research efforts of the two
specialists teams would be based in the Project area; the Plant Improvement
Specialist and his team would live and work out of ISAR's Karama Station,
located in the Bugesera region. The Farming Systems Specialists and teau
would conduct investigations primarily on farmers' plots and at the PAVs.



-40-
The Farming Systems Specialists would live and work out of the Bugesera
regional center. The administratiLve budget for the Plant Improvement
Specialist will be handled through ISAR's staff at Karama Station; ISAR
management and the Project Financial Director would make arrangements for
operating expenditures related to the work of the Farms Systems to be
channeled through the Bugesera regîonal center. All technical and
administrative arrangements (including accounting procedures) for this
component would be detailed in a contract between the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock and IITA. Signing of a contract satisfactory to
IDA is a condition of Credît effectiveness.
4.03       Regional Agricultural and Livestock Activities would be managed
by the Directors o:  the Bugesera and Gisaka Migongo regional centers
established under the first phase project. Regional. Directors would work
with the local authorities and technical services at the sub-prefectorial
and communal levels. Regional Project staff would be involved in: (i) the
training and development of extension services to provide information and
logistic support in the areas off food and treecrop production, integration
of livestock at the farm level, preservation and improvement of small
pasture areas, assistance for farners' associations and support of credit
activities of the Banques Populaires; (ii) livestock ranching activities at
Rusumo and development of improved sheep and goat herds; and (iii)
assistance for local nutritional centers in the areas of agricultural and
family health extension.  Two Regional Development Committees, membership
of which would include the Project staff in Kigali and the regional centers
and local government (see Chart 1) would be responsible for overall
planning and review of regional activities. Regionai Project staff would
be assisted technically by two Extension Advisors (internationally-
recruited), one in each regional center, a Livestock Advisor (Rwandese) who
would be based in Kigali until a second advîsor is recruited, at which time
both would move to the field; a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
(internationally-recruited), based in Kigali at the Ministry of
Agriculture. A Financial Director (Rwandese) plus a Financial Advisor
internationally-recuited for three months a year for 1983-87; and
accounting staff would coordinate all financial and procurement matters for
the regional center activities, and assist in the financial management of
other components implemented by separate agencies (para. 3.38). Terms of
reference for all key Rwandese Project staff (Project Coordinator,
Financial Director, Livestock Advisor and the two Regional Directors) were
discussed at negotiations. These key posts are currently filled with
qualified and experienced persons. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that new appointments to these posts would be made only after
consultation with IDA.
4.04      Organization of Extension Services.  Project staff working
through the agronomists and livestock agents at the prefectorial and
communal levels would oversee all extension activities in the Project
area. The official government ratio of one extension agent per sector and
one livestock agent per two sectors would be maintained under the Project.
Extension agents would report to PAV staff inr their areas, who, in turn,
would report to the communal agronomist or veterinary agent. In an effort
to concentrate extension efforts in areas identified during phase I to have



-41 -
the highest potential, three secto3s ir, each commune, or nine in each
region (25% of all sectors), would be seiected for a more intensive
training and extension program. An additional extension agent would be
assigned to each of these sectors. Extension themes to be emphasized would
be selected on a sector-by-sector basis by regional Project staff, the
communal agronomist, the "Conseil de Secteur" and the Bourgemestre for all
sectors except those chosen for intensive assistance. In sectors not
selected for intensive assistance, the sector extension agent would meet
with representatives of each cell (elected by families in the cell) once a
month. A monthly visit program would be established for each agent by the
communal agronomist. The number of fiamilies visited will vary from
sector-to-sector, but Project staff would aim to contact 20-30% of the
familîes per sector. In the areas selected for intensif ied assistance,
families would be divided into teams of 8-15 per cell, or 60-80 teams per
sector. Each would elect a leader. Depending on distances to be
travelled, each agent would be expected to visît between one to three
groups a day during 20 days of the month. Each month the communal
agronomist would establîsh a schedule whereby the agents could visit at
least 75% of the groups every months6
4.05         Role of the Communal Agents.  The communal agents must ensure
that the annual work program serves as a contract between the population of
the commune, the local administration and Project staff. The communal
agronomist and communal veterinary agents are technically responsible for
all agriculture and veterinary extension agents working in their respective
communes.  They are also the technical agents of the Bourgemestre and, as
such, the li-ak between the technical services of the Project and the
administrative authorities at the communal level.  They have a special role
to play in ensuring that Project activities are responsive to farmers'
perceived needs.
4.06       Role of the PAVs.  On average, there would be one PAV for every
three sectors in the Project area. The principal role of the PAVs in the
second phase would be one of logistic support and training. The PAV
agronomist willk reinforce the work of the extension agents working in the
sectors covered by the PA.V lHe would also be responsible for quality
control in the nurseries, the selected seed program, and any demonstration
plots in the PAV's service zone. The PAV veterinary agent's principal role
would be to assîst the communal veterinary agents in the organization of
local livestock groups.  He would be responsible for PAV veterinary service
and the local promotion of tne sheep and goat improvement program.
4.07       The Rubilizi Training Center for veterinarian assistants
(A3-level) bhas a separate management and training staff; all expenditures
would be accounted for by t:he Project Fiaancial Director until the end of
1984, when financial responsibility for the schooi will be transferred to
the Government (para, 3.19).
4.08       Nutrition Center Support Program.  The Project would reinforce
ongoing sctivities at the nutrition centers; day-to-day management would
remaiîn the responsibîlity of nutrition center personnel and the
non--governmen.tal organiizations involved in these centers.  One Program
Coordinator for each zone, officially designated by the Ministry of Social
Affairs f rom am,ong existing social and health workers in the Project area,
provîdes the liaison between personnel in nutrition centers, Project staff
and other governumental a-nd non-governmental organizations, such as CRS, the
Red Cross, and INADES-Rwanda.  Program Coordinators would be responsible



-42
for assisting nutrition and communal persante  ir6n preparlug f -inancing
requests and submitting an annual budget for nubtri to-al center investments
to the regional Project staff :Eor inclusion in the regïcoa.l annual work
plans.
4.09         Pilot Family Planning Activities.  The Dilot  rogramw wuld be
implemented by-theN àt itona- Po   at-ioU . ofr Ee   wAÀCh would
coordinate Project personnel of the Ministry of Health and  Ni2istry of
Social Affairs. Project actîvities would be managed by a Rwandese Project
Director (who would be an ONAPO staff member), assisted by an
internationally-recruited consultant as Project M vlsor. At negotîations,
assurances were obtained that the experience and qualifications of the
Project Director would be satisfaictory to LDA.
4.10      Building Construction and Rural Roads Compornent.  Ail building
constructions woud be detaiied              teE&-ie   n          ork plans
prepared by the regional Project stafft Construction jobs would be
contracted out to local constructiotn firms under the estab3i. heà procedures
of the Ministry of Public Works; construction would be supervised and
certified by Public Works' stafft The rural roads program wo uld be carried
out by the Works Department of the Mînistry of Publïc Work w7ho would
recruit the necessary technical assistance, and procure ma  nd
equipment. A Works Supervisor would be internatîo-ehally-recruited to assîst
the Department (Ponts et Chaussdes) in carrying out th's progrsam   The
annual construction and roads programs would be agreed between the  f lst y
of Public Works and Project staf£f  and detailed annaL pla s prepared by
the Works Department and reviewed and approved by IDA4 The M:inistry of
Public Works would have f inancial autonomy in implementl-g ..e agrede1
program;  accounting and submission of reimbursement requests to IDA would
be handled by the Head of the Worlks Department (para 3)38     IDA's approval
of a letter of understanding between the Ministry of Publîc Works and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is a conditlon of dîsbursement for
this component.
C.  Annual Work Plans
4.11      Implementation of all Project antiîities would `e carried out on
the basis of detailed annual work plans and budgets approved by 1 DA,
During the second phase Project, separate annua Wl   pians would be
required from the Ministry of 'ubLic Works (road coapomneat), OAO (pilot
family planning program), ISAR (research complnent) a_nd iG  II Project
management (extension, livestock, nutrition and RuAiliz          Appreval of the
work plans for each fiscal year during project extension is a condition of
disbursement. Beginning in Junie, the annual plans for atil extensiLon,
livestock and nutrition center aclivites in the Bugesera and Gisaka Migongo
regions would be prepared by the Director of each Regio al COe.ter, with
assistance, where necessary, of support staff in thîle i.gal. Project
bureau.  In July of each year, the regional plans would be d-scussed and
modified by the respective Regional Development ûornmIttees (see Chart 1).
Members of these Committees would include: the Prefect (as President). the
sub-Prefect, the Bourgemestres, the Regîona-  Director (as Secretary), the



-43-
Prefectorial Agronomist and Veterinary Officers, the regional Nutrition
Program Coordinator, the Regional Cooperative Officer and the supervîsory
doctor at Kibongo Hospital and the chief social worker (for family planning
activities in the Kibungo prefecture). The annual plans would then be
prepared for submission to the Project Coordinating Committee by early
August of each year along with the annual plans of ISAR, ONAPO and the
Ministry of Public Works. Annual work plans would be reviewed in detail by
IDA supervision missions scheduled to follow the Coordinating Committeets
review.  Clarifications or modifications recommended by IDA would be
discussed with the Project Coordinating Committee. The agreed version of
the annual work plans would be ratified by the Coordinating Committee by
the end of August in time to be submitted for Government's budget review
for the following fiscal year beginning on January 1. The content and
essential. criteria for IDA approval of the annual work plans were discussed
during negotiations and assurances obtained that the annual work plans and
budgets would be submitted to IDA for approval by September 15 of each year
beginning in 1982.
D.  Staff ing
4.12      Local Staff.  Most of the key management staff were trained under
the first phase project and assumed full management responsibility in
mid-1981. Technical and support staff for activities to be continued under
the second phase Project are either in place or would be recruited during
1982.  The number of local staff by component is as follows: for Project
Management (i.e. Kigali bureau, 9, and Bugesera and Gisaka Migongo Regional
Centers, about 40 each), 89 staff; for Extension activities, 188 staff; for
Livestock Ranches and Goat and Sheep Promotion, 16 staff; for Rubilizi
Training Center, 20 staff; for Research, 10 staff (not including existing
staff at Karama Station); for Nutrition and Family Planning, about 30
staff; and for Rural Roads, about 60 staff plus laborers. In total, about
415 Rwandese staff, 380 for the full five years, would be involved in
Project implementation. The costs of about 150 of these staff are
considered non-incremental and, therefore, are not included in Project
costs. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government would, in
addition to its contribution to Project costs, provide for the recurrent
costs associated wïth non-incremental staff through the end of the
Project. These additional costs are sunmarized in Table 7 and detailed in
the implementation volume.
4.13      Technical Assistance.  Internationally-recruited specialists
would be required for a number of technical functions, as well as for
general staff training purposes. Assistance to be engaged includes: (i)
for general extension and management: two extension/training specialists
(60 manmonths each) to be located in the regional centers, one monitoring
and evaluation advisor (60 manmonths) and a financial advisor (three
manmonths each year 1983-87); (ii) for research activities: a Plant Breeder
(60 manmonths) and a Farm Systems researcher (60 manmonths) plus short-term
consultants (three manmonths per year for five years, or 15 manmonths);
(iv) for nutrition and family planning activities: one Family Planning



-44-
Specialist (14 manmonths), short-term consultants for the family planning
component (16 manmonths) and short-term consultants for a nutrition survey
(9 manmonths); and (v) for rural roads: 60 manmonths for one works
supervisor and 36 manmonths in support to the roads unit, maintenance and
training. The average manmonth cost (including salary, fees, travel) for
long-term specialists is estimated to be between US$6,500 and 8,000. The
average total manmonth cost for short-term consultants, including salary,
fees and travel, is estimated to be about US$9,000.  The Fiîancial Advisor
is already in Rwanda. He was recruited for the f irst phase and his
contract is expected to be extended. Personnel for the roads component are
also in place. Recruitment of the other specialists is expected to be
completed by December 1982. Appointment of the two Training/Extension
specialists is a condition of Credit effectiveness. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the qualifications, experience, and
conditions of employment for internationally-recruited personnel would be
submitted to IDA for approval.
E.  Implementation and Monitoring
4.14      The Project would be im,plemented over a five-year period,
beginning in January 1983. Charts II and IV provide a tentative
implementation schedule. Detaîled implementation schedules for each major
component were discussed at negotiations. Explicit monitoring and
evaluation arrangements have been provided for all extension-related
Project activities (paras. 3.26-3.27). Annual progress reports would be
required for the research activities (para. 3.04). One mid-year report,
including a review of technical components and relevant
financial/accounting data, would be required of the two Regional Directors
and the Project Coordinator. Management of all components would submit a
full-year report, along with a detailed annual work plan to the PCC (para.
4.11) by September 1 of each year. A mid-term review of the Project would
be carried out before January 19815.
V.  TECENICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS
Foodcrops
5.01        In the short-term, two Project activities, distribution of
selected seed varieties and intercropping of beer bananas with beans, would
contribute directly to an increase in foodcrop production. In the
medium-term, it is anticipated that the research program would identify,
and make available for distribution, varieties tested for the semi-arid
areas of the Project. The following selected seeds, presently available in
Rwanda, would be multiplied in the two Project regions:  soy beans, Davis;
maize, Katumani; and ground nuts, HNG 18. The use of these varieties,
combined with improved cultivation practices, is expected to increase
overall yields by about 15%. In addition, cuttings of several promising
varieties of cassava and sweet pctatoes, which will be disseminated by ISAR
in the spring of 1982, would be tried in the Project area and multiplied if
results prove to be positive. It is estimated that the selected seed
program and improved cultural practices wo-ald be adopted by 5% of farmers



-45-
in the Project area each year beginning in Project year 1, and that 45% of
the farmers would be using selected seeds and applying improved cultural
practices from year 10 onwards. Yield increases are estimated as follows:
ZONE 1 (Coffee growing)
-- After 10 years --
Present           Without       With         With Project
Crop                 Yields            Project       Project        Increase
--------------- kg/ha ------                      kg
Cassava               6,000              5,700        7,500            1,800
Sweet Potatoes        4,500              4,300        5,500            1,200
Maize                   800                 750          900             150
Sorghum               1,000                 950       1,200              250
Groundnuts              750                 700          800             100
Soy beans               -                   -            550             550
ZONE 2 (Semi-arid area)
-- After 10 years --
Present           Without         With       With Project
Crop                 Yields            Project         Project      Increase
-- kg/ha ----------------                         kg
Cassava               5,000              4,750        7,000           2,250
Sweet Potatoes        4,000              3,800        5,000            1,200
Maize                   600                 570          650              80
Sorghum                 900                950        1,000              150
Groundnuts              650                 620         700               80
Soy beans               -                  -            500              500
5.02      Banana growing for beer production is a very old tradition in
Rwanda.  The cultivar grown for this purpose is called the "beer banana",
which is inedible and used only in local beer production. About 30% of the
area devoted to foodcrops in the Project area is under this crop. Most
banana plantations are densely spaced and give low yields (8 tons/ha).
Trials by the Faculty of Agronomy of the University of Butare show that
bananas planted either 4 x 4 m or 2 x 8 m in contour lines give at least
the same yields as when densely planted. Spacing and training the banana
plant on a three-stem system would permit intercropping with beans. About
60% of the area currently planted with banana could be intercropped to give
yields that are the same as for pure stands of beans.  A few farmers in the
Project area have already adopted this system. Project extension agents
would provide guidance to farmers on the rational spacing and training of
the banana plants.



-46-
Forest and Fruit Tree Production
5.03      Possible species to be distributed under the Project include:
Leucena  lu,  Casia sismea, Acacia mollisima, Albizia spp., and Croton
mubango. These species have all been grown locally. They are less
efficient firewood producers than eucalyptus and certain conifers, but
compete less wîth other crops. In addition, they increase soil fertility
and are easily removed if land is required for crop production at a later
period.
Soil Protection and ImpE2rin&_Soil Fertility
5.04      The establishment of Setaria anti-erosion hedges, interplanted
with legumes (velvet beans, pigeon peas) to assure a longer life for the
hedges would be promoted. Emphasis would be on pigeon peas which provide
food, both in the form of fresh pods or as hulls.  Pigeon peas are widely
used in India as contour bunds for erosion control. Both the Rural
Development Project în Kibuye (Swiss Bilateral Assistance) and the Rural
Development Project in Nyabisindu (German Bilateral Assistance) are using
pigeon peas together with Setaria and Tripsacum in hedges and experiencing
good results.  On an average f arm, about 500 m of contour bunds are
required. Pigeon peas planted in double rows on contour lines could yield
about 30 kg per year and help to consolidate the hedges.
5.05      Most of the soils are low in organic matter.  To help remedy
this deficiency, farmers in the Project area would be encouraged to
stall-feed theîr animals part-time in a simple stable. Manure collected
from the stable would be mixed with crop and household waste in compost
pits. Significant yield increase.s have been obtained from the use of this
compost at rates of 500 kg/are. Fertilizers have not given significant
responses to date, and there is a need to find cheap and readily available
alternatives until definitive research results on fertilizer use, prove
their efficiency and financial viability for traditional farming.
Research
5.06      Given the constraints to crop production in the semi-arid zones
of the Project area, the orientation of agronomic research would be to
develop farming systems (a combination of crops and management practices),
to:  i) reduce water loss by runoff; ii) minimize evaporation losses; iii)
improve utilization of sub-soil nutrients; iv) increase nutrient recycling
through use of crop residues; v) increase nitrogen fixation; vi) reduce
yield losses by weeds, insects, diseases, nematodes, and lack of adaptation
to the environment; vii) reduce c.rop losses at harvest and during storage;
and viii) produce additional animal manure.
5.07      Among the crops already known in Rwanda, those which offer the
best potential under the soil and. climate conditions (without fertilizer
additions) of the semi-arid regicons of Project area are: cassava, sorghum,
cowpeas, groundnuts and sweet potatoes. Other crops that offer some
potential are: pigeon peas, soy bean, sunflower (în the better soils),
chick peas, sesame, pepper, Dolichos and Mucuna. Some of the new crops
that might be tested include millet (Pennisetum typhoides), bambara
groundnuts (Voandzeia subterranea), okra, jack beans (Canavalia ensiformis)
and sword beans (Canavalia gladiata), mung beans (Vigna radiata, and black
beans (Caraotas). Finger millet (Eleusine corocana), in particular, could
show a better adaptation to poor plateau soîls than either maize or



-47-
sorghum. When testing the different plant species and varieties or
cultivars, the following aspects would be taken into account; yield
stability from season-to-season; maturity, adaptation to low fertility
conditions; tolerance of soil acidity and aluminium toxicity (both of
which are prelavent in the area); incidence of pests; plarnt type and
morphology (important for those crops to be intercropped). The program
would concentrate on key known crops and utilize material for selection
that can be obtained from neighboring countries.
5.08      The testing of plant species and varieties would be carried out
under two management systems: without fertilizer and under moderate level
of fertilizer. Suggested rates of application per ha are 40 kg of N, 40 kg
of P2 05 and 20 kg of K20. A Soil and Water Management Specialist would
determine which elements are most limiting in the different soils. Species
of known tolerance to acid soils of high aluminium content would be
tested.  Rhizobium strains, which are better adapted to such
conditions, would also be tested.
5.09      Research efforts would include the selection of short-cycle crop
varieties or cultivars. Early soy bean varieties, such as Merrit and
Hardonne, would be tested and, if suitable, released to farmers. The
selection of these earlier maturers will help reduce drought stress when
the rainy season is delayed or shorter than expected. Trials would be
carrîed out involving legumes in intercropping, rotation trials, alley
cropping, as well as agroforestry trials. Trials will be confined to those
crop combinations most commonly used by farmers, or combinations that are
most likely to be adopted. The testing of shrub and tree-species and
cultivars, including fruit trees, which are both suitable agronomically and
socially acceptable, will have high priority. The experience of ISAR in
sylviculture and the agroforestry project supported by German bilateral aid
at Nyabisindu would be of importance in the elaboration and execution of an
agroforestry program for the Project.
Producer Benefits
5.10        Zone I.  About 20,000 of the 45,000 smallholder families living
in Zone I are expected to benefit from the application of tested
improved practices to be promoted under the Project. These include mainly
use of selected seeds and cuttings and interplanting of beer bananas with
beans. About 80% of the families living in this zone are expected to
benefit from improvements to coffee growing and the fruit and forest tree
program. The expected benefits at the farm level for Zone I are shown in
the farm model in Table 5. The expected incremental production for
fooderops, coffee and fruit trees is given in Table 4A. At full
development, the value of production of an average size farm is expected to
increase from RF 49,000 (US$533) to RF 62,000 (US$675) per year, and the
estimated cash income from RF 17,400 (US$200) to RF 24,175 (US$265).
5.11      Zone II.  There is an estimated of 22,000 famili.es living in Zone
II, the semi-arid zone. Ten percent of these families live on very
marginal soils, and, therefore, these families have not been included among
potential Project beneficiaries. It is estimated that 9,000 of the 20,000
potential Project beneficiaries in this area would benefit from
improvements introduced under the Project. As coffee is extremely marginal
in this area, it would be replaced with more appropriate cash crops as soon
as they are identified; incremental benefits would come mainly from



-48 -
foodcrops (particularly cassava, sweet potatoes, beans, groundnuts and soy
beans), as well as fruit trees and small livestock. The expected benefits
at the farm level for Zone II are given in Table 6.  At full development,
the value of production from an average farm is expected to increase from
RF 31,000 (US$337) to RF 42,500 (US$462), and the estimated cash income
from RF 7,035 (US$77) to RF 9,310 (US$101).
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
Foodcrops
6.01      Incremental fooderop production resulting from Project
interventions is not expected to have any significant impact on foodcrop
prices in the Project area or in the country. Most of the incremental
production will be consumed directly by the producer family, and since
population in the Project area îs still increasing at a rate higher than
the national average (due to the fact of migration and the high fertility
of young settler families), most of the marketed increase will probably be
consumed within the region, both on a cash and for barter basîs. With the
rapid increase in recent years of small "pick-up" traders and the proposed
improvements of rural roads in the Project area, it is expected that
seasonal price fluctuations will be somewhat reduced by Lncreased trading
activity in and out of the Project area.
Coffee
6.02      Demand.  About 25% of world coffee production is consumed in the
coffee producing countries.  Another 25% is consumed in the United States
and a further 40% in other OECD countries. The demand for coffee, which in
most countries is highly inelastic with respect to incomes and prices, is
primarily determined by established habits, per capîta income and prices.
In absolute terms, world consumption by importing countries has gone from
55 million bags in 1961 to 68.6 million bags in 1978 and an estimated 73.1
million bags in 1979. Forecasts for the next decade call for annual
increases varying from 1% to 2.5%, translatîng into between 65-70 million
bags to 78 million bags in 1990. It is expected that domestic consumption
in coffee producing countries will be stable.
6.03      Supply.  Presently world production of coffee is around 75
million bags per year.  About 60% of world production comes from Latin
America, 30% from Africa and 10% from Asia and Oceania. The largest coffee
producer is Brazil (on average 25% of the world's production), followed by
Colombia (14%), Mexico (5%), Ethiopia, the Ivory Coast and Indonesia (each
with 4%). Rwanda's share of the world market production is estimated at a
little under one half of one percent. World coffee production is expected
to expand at an annual rate of 2.15% between 1980 and 1990.
6.04      Prices in 1980 constant dollars averaged US$2.99/kg în 1981 and
are expected to decline gradually to US$2.70 in 1985, but increase somewhat
to US$2.90 in 1990. These projections are to be taken wîthin the context
of international crop uncertainties. Prices for Rwanda's semi-washed
arabica coffee have closely followed the trends for other coffee of



-49-
comparable standards in the world market. Since Rwanda is a small-scale
producer wLth no power to influence market trends, forecasts for world
market prices can be taken as forecasts for Rwanda prices as well.
6.05      International Coffee Agreement.  The six-year International
Coffee Agreement, which became effective on October 1, 1976, provides for
the introduction of export quotas when prices fall below a specified
level. Export quotas come into effect whea an indicator price falls for 20
consecutive market days below the reference price. Rwarîda presentl;
produces an estimated 19,000 tons of green coffee; its present quota is set
at 22,500 tons, and the projected incremental production under the Project
of about 650 tons falls within this provision.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Justification
7.01      At present, living conditions and farm incomes in the Project
area are below the average in Rwanda, and this area contributes little to
the national economy. Increasing population pressure on the land, coupled
with the delicate nature of the lowland ecology, will lead to a rapid and
irreversible degradation of the area's productive capacity unless concerted
efforts are made to introduce better land use practices and to provide the
incentives and services which will encourage farm families to use the land
resources move efficiently. The proposed Project addresses a number of
critical constraints to the development of the potential in the Bugesera
and Gisaka Migongo regions, including: the shortage of well-adapted crop
varieties for the semi-arid zone of the Project area; the lack of efficient
services for the supply of inputs, including selected seeds, treecrop
seedlings, pesticides and veterinary medicines and for the transfer of
technical advice to traditional farmers; the poor state of rural roads and
related inefficiency of the marketing system in serving rural producers and
consumers; the declining soil fertility resulting from overcropping,
overgrazing and the lack of effective erosion control; and the absence of
information and services to treat nutrition and population problems.
7.02      Benefits.  The principal benefits of the Project would include
the establishment of efficient support services for agricultural and
livestock activities at the farm level, increased production of subsistence
and cash crops, increased livestock from the Rusumo Ranch, increased trade
and transportation in and out of the Project area, and the generation of
useful technical information from research activities for the future
development of the semi-arid zones in Rwanda. Most of the Project
activities are aimed at ensuring sufficient subsistence food production and
facilitating, where basic food needs are met, the production of marketable
surpluses. The value of incremental production of foodcrops (including
fruit trees), coffee and livestock (breeding stock and beef) are the only
benefits that were calculated. At full development in Project year 9,
annual incremental coffee production would have an estimated foreign
exchange value of RF 142 million (US$1.54 million) in estimated 1982
constant prîces; annual incremental foodcrop production would have an
estimated value of about RF 204 million (US$2.22 million) and annual
incremental production of livestock from Rusumo would have an estimated
value of RF 21 million (US$230 thousand). Other benefits from productive



-50-
activities, which have not been calculated for reasons of uncertainty about
the timing of benefits, would include incremental wood production from
family woodlots and community, plantations and incremental meat and milk
production from the improved health and genetic upgrading of local cattle,
sheep and goat stock. AdditionaLl benefits, more difficult to quantîfy,
include: improved technical and management services through staff training,
technîcal asistance and support to agricultural and veterinary education at
Rubilizi; land improvement through erosion control, improved cropping
techniques and reforestation; greater integration of rural and urban
markets through roads improvement; higher nutrition standards and, in the
long-term, a reduction of overall fertïlîty rates through nutrition and
famïly planning efforts; and increased project evaluation capacity through
the development of monitoring and feedback.
Economic Rate of Return
7.03      An economic rate of return (ERR) measuring the net incremental
benefits of the directly productive Project investments is estimated at
about 16%.  Project benefits are derived from the încremental foodcrop and
coffee production resulting from improved farming practices.  Separate cost
and benefit streams corresponding to these productive activities are shown
in Table 4B. The economîc rate of return is, however, not considered the
primary justification for the long-term investments proposed in the Project
which are principally aimed aLt farmer training and the development of
services and infrastructure în support of smallholder agriculture.
7.04      The economic life of the Project is assumed to be 20 years.
Although the benefits from foodcrops in the initial years have been
averaged over all crops, the primary benefits would come from cassava,
beans and sweet potatoes, for which improved seeds and plant material are
available. The overall ERR analysis includes all expenditures for capital
investments, replacements, operaLtion and maintenance costs related to the
Project's directly productive cemponents(i.e. Project management, Extension
activities, Rusumo Ranch and Rural Roads), which represent about 65% of
Project costs. The full costs of all technical assistance, except that
associated with Research, Family, Planning and Monitoring and Evaluation
activities, were included. Project activities are not expected to require
significant increases in farmn labor and, therefore, no economic value for
labor was taken into account in the calculation. Coffee prices have been
projected in accordance wîth Bark forecasts, and fooderops have been valued
at domestic market prices. Costs include estimated average physical
contingencies of 7%, but do not include prïce contingencies, taxes or
duties. Sensitivity analysis on the rate of return showed that if costs
were increased by 10%, the rate of return would be reduced to 14%. If
benefits were reduced by 10%, thLe rate of return would be reduced to
13.8%. If benefits were to be delayed one year, the rate of return would
be reduced to 13. The switching; values for the Project using an
opportunity cost of capital of 10% are as follows: 27% for the benefits
and 37% for the costs.



-51-
Risks
7.05      The proposed Project involves certain risks which are not fully
expressed in the sensitivity analysis.  The success of the production-
oriented activities will depend on the effectiveness of extension systems
and logistic support in responding to farmers' needs and in introducing
inputs and improved cultivation techniques, some of which can oaly be
expected to yield benefits over the medium-term. The Project approach
seeks to organize and train regional extension personnel to provide a few
basic services demanded by the population complemented by the reinforcement
of proper cultivation and husbandry techniques.  Monitoring and feedback is
emphasized to identify problems in approach and to ensure that the target
population is being reached. There is the risk that the objectives of the
applied research activities supported under the Project will not be
realized. The Project specifically addresses the needs of the semi-arid
zones by giving priority to the selection of semi-arid foodcrop varieties
already developed for similar ecological conditions as well as the study of
local farm systems to ensure adaptability and acceptability. Reinforcing
links between research and extension services should help to expedite the
testing as well as wide dissemination of recommendations.  Good cooperation
between agencies involved in implementation of Project activities is also
important to the achievement of expected results. In order to avoid
potential timing and coordination problems, formal agreements (protocoles
d'accords), defining the respective responsibilities of critical parties in
the implementation of particular activities were discussed at negotiations
and will be agreed on during a joint IDA, IITA mission to Rwanda in July of
1982. Recruitment of key technical assistance has already begun and is
expected to be completed by the end of the first phase project in December
1982. A PPF has been provided to ensure that road building and other
technical equipment can be ordered during 1982 and that essential staff
training, construction, and other start-up activities can begin in June
1982. Finally, technical and financial management of all components has
been carefully reviewed to assure clear lines of responsibility, reporting
and control. In sum, while there are risks to achieving the proposed
objectives, the program of investments and the organization of Project
management have been carefully considered to minimize these risks.
Government Cash-Flow
7.07      The Project's impact on the Government's cash-flow is shown in
Table 2; projections are in estimated current prices through 1989 (Project
Year 7) and in estimated constant 1989 prices thereafter. The cash-flow
through 1988 (Project Year 6) shows an average annual outflow of about RF
78 million (US$850,000). At full development in 1991 (Project Year 9) and
through the remainder of the twenty-year life of the Project, the estimated
average annual outflow would be about RF 33 million (US$355,000) in
constant 1982 prices. This outflow corresponds to an annual expenditure of
about US$1.15 (in constant 1982 prices) per individual estimated to be
living in the Project area in 1982. Incremental revenue from coffee
exports (in the form of government taxes on exports) is expected to
contribute about RF 6.9 million(US$75,000) per year in 1982 constant
prices. Foreign exchange benefits from incremental coffee exports are
estimated at about US$1.5 million per year by 1988.



-52-
VIII. SUMMARY OF POINTS DISCUSSED AND AGREEMENTS REACHED ON
CREDIT CONDITIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
points:
(a) ISAR, in consultation with the ITA research specialists,
would prepare a five-year work plan to be submttted to IDA for approval
within three months of the research specialist.,' arrival in Rwanda (para.
3.04);
(b)  ISAR w~,uld subtit, by September 15 of each year, a progress
report covering the 1>-month period ending September 30 ard a detailed
annual work plan for the following calendar year (para. 3.04);
(c) the communal administration and the Government would, over
the Project period, maintain the number of extension agents and other
Project personnel at staffing levels in January 1982 and the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock Development would continue to provide one
agronomist and one veterinarian per commune in the Project area (para.
3.05);
(d)  Governnent would, (i) by September 1, 1982, submit to IDA a
detailed plan and procedures for the progressive increase of charges
applicable to all veterinary medicines distributed in Rwanda and (ii) take
all necessary measures to ensure that livestock owners would be charged as
follows. 70% of the full costs of such medicines beginning January 1, 1983,
80% beginning January 1, 1984, 98% beginning January 1, 1985, and 100%
beginning January 1, 1986 (para. 3.08);
(e) the Government would by September 15, 1983 establish prices
for selected seeds produced under the Project which would allow recovery of
the production and distribution costs of such seeds, provided that these
prices are sufficiently attractive ta, encourage farmers to buy the seeds
(para. 3.09);
(f) OCIR-Café would continue to provide to the Project area
quantities of pesticides at a minimum of 1981 levels for the duration of
the Project period (para. 3.11);
(g)  the Government would take all administrative and financial
measures necessary to continue the ftnctioning of Rubilizi by January 1985
at the latest and to maintain the pedLagogical level of the school a: lcast
at the level attained in January 1982 (para 3.19);
(h) the Ministry of Health would provide the services of one
doctor and one nurse-midwife at the Kibungo hospital and one nurse's aide
at the Mutendeli and Rukira dispensaries (para. 3.22);
(i) terms of reference, short-lists of consultants and the
contract for the land use study woulcd be approved by IDA (para. 3.28),
(j)  the terms and conditions for the operation of and accounting
for the Project revolving fund (para. 3.33);



-53-
(k)  the procurement procedures for goods and ser ices financed
under the Project would be in accordance with ,::,rocedures detailed in para.
3.34;
(1)  a'Il Project expenditures would be documented in accordance
with procedures specified in para. 3.35;
(m) separate Project accounts woul& be maintained for activities
carried out by the Ministry of Public Works, -:SAR, ONAPO, the two regional
centers, and, during the two-year transitiona; period, the BGM II Project
staff in Kigali. Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would audit all
Project accounts and statements of expenditure annually (para. 3.38), and
audited accounts and separate certification oi the statements of
expenditure would be forwarded to IDA no later than six months following
the end of the financial year, December 31 (para. 3.38);
(n)  a project completion report would be stbmitted to IDA -t
later than six months after the closing date (para. 3.39);
(o)  new appointments to key Rwandese staff positions (Project
Coordinator, Financial -Director, Livestock Advisor and the two Regional
Directors) would be made only after consultation with the Association
(para. 4.03);
(p) the Project Director for family planning activities would
have experience and qualifications satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.09);
(q)  the annual work plans and budgets would be submitted to IDA
for approval by September 15 of each year beginning in 1982 (para. 4.11)
(r) Government would, in addition to its direct contribution to
Project costs, provide for the salaries of non-incremental staff provided
in Table 7 through the end of the Project period (para. 4.12)- and
(s)  the qualifications, terms of reference experience and
conditions of employment for internationally-recruited personnel would be
submitted to the Association for approval (para. 4.13).
(t)  a mid-term review of Project activities between the
Government and IDA would take place after the first two years of Project
implementation; no later than January, 1985 (para. 4.14);
8.02       Conditions of credit effectiveness would be the appointment of
the two Training/Extension Specialists (para. 4.13) and the signing of a
contract satisfactory to IDA between ISAR and IITA regarding the
implementation arrangements of the research component (para. 4.02).
8.03       Conditions of disbursement would be (i) for all expenditures on
building construction and the rural road component, IDA's approval of a
letter of understanding between the Ministry of Public Works and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development defining the management
responsibilities for the road building component and all other Project
building construction (para 4.10) and (ii) approval of work plans for each
fiscal year during Project execution (para. 4.11);



-54-
8.04       Subject to the above-conditions the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 14.5 million (US$ 16.3 million
equivalent) to the Government of Rwanda on standard terms.
May 28, 1982



-55-
RWANDA                                                          Table  1
9UGESERA 6ISA«A MIGONGO Il PROJECT
Proet, Copoim!nt bh Time
(RF '000)
Base Costs                                     Total
1982      1983       1984       1985        1986        1987        RF      (US$ '000)
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
KIGALI: FINACIAL COORDINATION                 -   47,949,0   33.524.0    26,817.0   29t265.0  329078.0   169t632.O    1,845.6
BUGESERA: REGIONAL MANAGEMENT                 -   149779,0   16,721.0   17,125.0   18,523,0   20,129.0   87e277.0          949,6
GISAKA MIGOlGO: REGIONAL MANAGEMENT           -   14844.0   167786.0    17,190,0   10,588.0   20,194.0    87,602.0         953.1
Sub-Total PROJECT MANAGEMENT                     -   77p571.0   67.031.0    61,132,0   66i376.0   72,401.0   344,511.0    3,748.4
E, EXTENSION ACTIVITIES
GUGESERA                               119255,0   69.127.2   39,405.7    34,847.7   32g100.2  31,498.7  '218.234.5    2,374e4
GISAKA MIGONGO                         10,620.0  60,711.8   43,506,3    36,071J3  36y920.8  34t381.3  222.211.5    2.417.7
Sub-Total EXTENSION ACTIVITIES            21,B75,0  129,G39.0  82.912.0   70,919.0  694021.0  &5.880.0  44U0446,0    49792.1
C. LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNENT
RUSUMO RANCH                                  -    5,909.0       803.0   -1,132.0           -           -     5V580.0       60.7
SHEEP AND GOAT PROMOTION               11,900.0   10,356.0    5e037,0      2,747.0      827,0      827,0    31,694.0       344,8
Sub-Tatal LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT           11.900.0  16265.0    5.840.0    1,615.0         827.0      827.0   37i274I0        405.5
D, RUBILIZI TRAINING SCHOOL                      -   10.280.0  10,280.0             -          -          -    20,560.0       223.7
E. SEMI-ARID CROP RESEARCH                 7.235.0   52y395.0  32e76540    329940,0   34.940.0   29p690.0   189.965.0    29066,9
F. NUTRITION AND POPULATION
NUTRITION CENTER SUPPORT PROGRAM              -   10t4900    99225.0      59605,0    2,185.0    2i960,0   309455.0        331,4
PILOT FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAH           3,340.0   18.560.0    99235.0      9i700.0    49510.0    49510.0    49,855.0       542,4
Sub-Total NUTRITION AND POPULATION         3,340.0   29,040.0   18.460.0   15.305,0    6,695.0   71470.0   80,310.0           873,8
G. RURAL ROAD CONSTRUCTION                35,850.0   71,513#7  64y865.2    66,598.7  64,865.2   648,65.2   368.557.8    4,010.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                        80i200#0  386,903.7  282t153,2   248,509.7  242,724.2  241,133.2 1e481.623.8   16,120.4
PhYsical Contingencies                    7,523.5   28,670.2  20,259.9   16,662.5   15,149.9   14.584.4   102,850.3    1.119.0
Price Contingencies                       2,036.1  38,436,4   56,728,6    729721.5  100,235.0  128e18242  398.339.7    4,334.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                         89.759.6  454O010,3  3599141.6  337,893.6  358,109.0  383e899.7 1,982,813.8   21,573,4
Foreign Exchange                         67e177.1  272,825.5  209,235.1  199.685.4  197.872.2  202y640.0 1.149e435.3  12?506.1
Mam 13, 1982 09:08



RWANDOA
BUGESERA GISAKA MIGONO)  -  Phase Il
Go-er-at Cash Flow 1/
(RF ellîlue)
1982     1983     1984   1985    1986    1987        1988      1989     1990    1991       1992      1993   1994       1995    1996       1997     1998     1999     2000      2001     2002 2003-12  2013-22  2023-32
Pruject Year                  O         1        2       3        4        5        6        7         8        9        10        l1     12         13       14       15        16       17       18        19       20   21-30      31-40    41-50
Sources of Funds:
IDA Credit                    81      149       322     253      230      230      235        -         -        -        -        _        -         _        _        _        _         _        _         _        _        _        _         _
FAC Grant                               15       55      55       55       56        -                  -        -        -        _         -        _        _        _         _        _        _         _        _
R.s..u  Li.vetock Sale. 21   5           9       il      14       14       16       18       21        21       21       21       21       21        21       21       21       21        21       21       21        21      210      210       210
T..e. ou CoFffee E prs/ -                -        -       --       4       10       20       25       25        25       25       25        25       25       25       25       25        25       25        25       25      250      250       250
Total Sources         86       213      388     322      303      312      273        46       46       46       46       26       46        46       46 46              46       46       46       465        6      460      460       460
Uses uf Fuedt:
Pruject Ma.a-eent              -       82        70      67       75       81       15       17        17       17       17        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -
E.teusnun Activities          24       155     117       10      105      112       35       38        38       38       38       38       38        38       38       38        38       38       38        38       38      380      380       380
LiveRtock  eveloprent         22       16         7       4        1        1        I                  1        1        1        -        -         -        -        -        -I
Rubilizi Traini.g Schuol    0           20       22      17       20       23       26       28       28        28       28        -         -        -        -        -         -
Seai-Arid Research              8       61       42      46       53       49       50       55        55       55       55        -         -        -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -
NutrItion and Fa.Ily
Planning                     5       38       30      25        Il       13        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -
Rural Ruade                   40       87        87      97       91      100       20       23       50        20       23       20       50        23       20       20        20       50       20        50       20      300      300       300
Proj.ct-related Staff 4/    2           25       29      30       33       35       20       20       20        20       20       10       10        10       10       10        10       10       10        10       10      100       100      100
Sub-Tuta1            101       484      394     296      3i9      414      167      182                                   68 98              71       68       68        68       93       68        98       68      780       780      780
IDA:  Cummit.eut Fee           -        6.7       5.5     4.0      2.8      1.7      0.5      -         -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -
Service Ch.rge           0.3      1.4      2.9     5.0      6.8      8.6    10.3    11.2    11.2    11.2          11.2    10.9    10.6    10.3    10.1            9.8      9.5      9.2       9        8.7      8.4      70.7     45.9     16.5
Principal Repay"ent   -           -        -       -        -        -        -         -        -        -       37.4    37.4    37.4    37.4    37.4    37.4    37.4    37.4               37.4    37.4    37.4   374.5   374.5   374.5
lob-Total             0.30      8.10     8.40   9.00      9.60   10.30   10.80   11.20   11.20   îL33i48.60    48.30   48.00   47.70   47.50   47.20    46.90   46.60    46.40   46.10    45.80  445.20  420.40  391.00
Total  u.e.                  101.30  492.10  402.40 305.00  398.60  424.30  177.80  193.20  220.20  190.20  230.60  116.30  146.00  118.70  115.50  115.20  114.90  144.60  114.40  144.10  113.801,225.201.200.401.171.00
Net Cash Flue                (15.30)(279.10) (14.40) 17.00  (95.60)(112.30)  95.20 (147.20)(174.20)(144.20)(184.60) (70.30)(100.00) (72.70) (69.50) (69.20) (68.90) (98.60) (68.40) (98.10) (67.80) 346.20  346.20  346.20
1/  Iu curreet pricea through Pr-ject Year 7, 1989, and coastanc 1989 prices thereafter
i/  Fr.a Table 301 A, I.plesenta.Lion VolSa
3/  Governzznt levle; a 20% t.a  ou the values ef coftfe eu-Frustler equal to about gF 37.680/ton
4/ Additional tu PFrjeot cuets; frou Table 7, SAR
3/28/82



-57-
RWANDA
Table 3
BUGESÉRA/GISAKA MIGONGO Il PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                        Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                             at Quarter End
---- US$ Thousand
1981-82
March 31, 1982                                                    0
June 30, 1982                                                     O
1982-83
September 30, 1982                                                0
December 31, 1982 1/                                            875
March 31, 1983                                                1,000
June 30, 1983                                                 1,200
1983-84
September 30, 1983                                            1,800
December 31, 1983                                             2,500
March 31, 1984                                                3,250
Juae 30, 1984                                                 4,250
1984-85
September 30, 1984                                            5,250
December 31, 1984                                             6,000
M!arch 31, 1985                                               6,750
June 30, 1985                                                 7,500
1985-86
September 30, 1985                                            8,000
December 31, 1985                                             8,750
March 31, 1986                                                9,250
June 30, 1986                                                10,000
1986-87
September 30, 1986                                           10,500
December 31, 1986                                            11,250
March 31, 1987                                               12,000
June 30, 1987                                                12,500
1987-88
September 30, 1987                                           13,000
December 31, 1987  2/                                        13,750
March 31, 1988                                               14,250
June 30, 1988                                                15,000
1988-89
September 30, 1987                                           16,000
December 31, 1987 3/                                         16,300
1/ Expected Date of Effectiveness.
2/ Expected Date of Project Completion.
3/ Expected Closing Date.
March 28, 1982



41 _000 f-IIj,. l/ ~ ~    ~        ~        ~       ~       0001040000'7000  nfIOO  O~"t
N,   f f-111-   d.pti.g  450    1,350          2,7m            5,4-~~~0010   010f0  t00l    (0100R    0 <t1 113.                6,
f.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt.P.~~no    tIt-lernealeelt
25 4/  .45   74  1.3   149   2.7   2-6   olt3  Orn4 s  ernît iter   ao.6 foffn              .,10                    106 1-7            .
C....onlc67P                                %67       P  30  2.t   4006   o.(   Ao            12%  O    127.  O   O  20    t       r30 1     t       0  362 o,24   e4-  42,0   a8.      e  450
So.th o>tell  uodren                   45 25           1,504,20.14           .    2,0    0           01,100        410,000          13500J.           162400 .        oe,oo   I           20,250I
G00 ..5 0.pI/                               .45      74      1.3   147      2.3   24       6.7      144  8,.0      542    10.4      240    13.1       000    14.0    1,03      10.7    1,118    3011.
S.Y.b....                7~2 5/     .17     21    2.0    400        4.0   800      4 O    1 70   2  O.  1,41       46.2   72.0       .0    7,4 >      4.    2,00      20.0    31,01<       '
Sorghnno               18 ~~~~~~~/   .22   54     7.5    0       14.5   201       .0     32     45.5    416     4.0>     51    .2.5         2      '1. f'           105.5       1     112.3
RaIna                     i <1/    .02       3    0.6        £     0.12 -         0.2 .- 4   1     .6 4-.                   30     0.4        3      0.2       4       4            in                         y-    12 -
Zeotrre2 :27 2(1                                                                                                                          1.2         - 20                   - 270142.1
NCo f f-re                                                                        >10p   22.0 60   ,   2740550    54I    170       65     3.0        60    4. 6        511  142-fl      6511n 142.0qnf
Coffee Zone I                                                             50~~~~~~91/  16     2   .   5   .0  e    121.0 6   >7<.0  21 33.0  251 .0l    3?   26.0       37       34.0       O 8             (        .
No.. .. o   faIlesaopîn                                 200            600           1,2030          2,510 36  0 4.                  4.00              6,0001L%   I.     ,1 An   12.       4011             91140 2  15.    7 911003
Ban   -- d1/  16u2                                                       5       4      .0     >0    620       6       36.0    716       .0      27     50.0       3      54.11     328       .0      60      75        0      72.n
T.t.1 Z- 1 -d  .- Il         .          40   /.4        12      18.7   240       .1    400   4,        220       .7    060       .6      ,0      12,0~   1,40    <.8   1.80        >60    10          14.1 1,<0        10.»
Soyhn-n-                                             40   1           2      .       4       .        4     . 300                    4      24        10      30       S&        .       6        .400             85      01        .
FNlteea                                                                    -             -dg2/                             2.8-             4.6-              1100               ,0-6.413.0021
23,250  13,000   I4OZPt                                                   6.            240               6.               5.055121. 70.1                                                         2.
1/lonne-           36,2007,5
22hoa       ,150               4,250      O       8,0
23. 4,2500          .I  13,5000       0 ..   12,000
Otren    "Il11,60                  -3'lP,
o.lklea        5,550f.Ily  25,000 5I k                                      &                                                        .0 
22,50          ,55  -  0%    05-560g(l,y..1
Zone I  45,500    Zone  "Il' 20,50   007 2,0h00-   f.i,1.                                                                                               00
3/       =Vaie  f  rodrtno,(0  00);ooostoholnd  y  oltpllo   'WOy4h  naho    eioOnanoS                                                                   >82.000P1e/o
fo   ia    oo-OOOt  k1ga prî         ..                                                                                Connag                       10,000
4/  OraT  r Iaoed to heo             1- ota th y .08. h;...d.   reo    nothadogod.at.25-s,y       5 . n-1   1.35O                      Suret. potrot                   000
addîotooal    'ZOnO; 05   aal n1 g.  y55t kg  =25tou    o 1 kg   =  656.kg (loft yiot..                                         Sogoay4.
5/Oeapooa As-oosPa"onaij  tlîobnote  ytid                      1  ynorton        hy 1.0   g/a    oc   ot ng,     ,honGonee                                           01
12- aty   o  140 O> edtrloonl;  450 foltos s               i50kg..0>ton       000            4nfo.Srhoo2.8
OolyOs         .00k.r5  St                            ddttoa;45    oulo1   50kg -42/ons-                                       (to       -  TT0.000gi.~
9/  Orapn        tt 10îogn   onl>   h    10.Tiiino.oo  y20   gho                             oo45il   o                                Cag  e                   00.00
2 ho ood.2 e 200=  40 kgIsI yeor   450 Icld tat4 bYg  =  18, taon an.ldytoca.. .2h                  5    .-           d--             I
>ontl   ta 21.  kg oddltlooi"    o 450-Oooddroo    n  year.                                                        Onrnod   lutn,  5kgn20                        On tsu    <pean 2).                        dyi.d
1.02 ok0g              diîua       5 . 45ton a7dttcoal  b   yer                                                         00k     20=40.000       40 t-n  (yeat 2).
10/fotîtofiat   oyeon  Ot  OcOtot  in.    toocroolanoh0  hao50k/n .                                          16/  S-etptto   Zone Il >nr              ynh  130 kg/tonlîy -rnltI   no ndyteîdn a-d
16.  k  n45  -- F-2 sao  --reoearaplootod.  130 kg s 2001                                                                                                         26,n  (pea-  25.
12    o   tohed Tahin -- InfeOn>                                                                                        5t  n2 0 t n                yo    )
picote4, 24 kgo 200  -  Stu  24 7k,0         3S0.-000.Id
10    ol oplant  .y,hoo..  .o  tOn fIns   lIe        ohae   On ou04 ho n 5100 kg/ha
201 kg o 200  -  4tos
20/  seenitaoked Table-   ntnna  (ont                        tt  Tn-o-Zon>



iGOSIIIA GIS/dCA 32lCO3û 11 PROdECT
ZONE 2                                                                                             Prult Trrc (                ?rodurq,
Yr  I         Yr  2          Yr  3          Yr  4          Yr  S          Yr  *          yr  7         Yr  a          Yr  9          Y. 10          Y,r Il          r 12          Yr 13          Or 14           Y, 15
r Y                     V       P_V       , P      V       P      V       P      V       P     V _         P             P      V           V       P      V       g      V        P     V        P     V        P      V
Adoption Rot.               0             201            400            60Y           d07
'i.li.0  Ado.ptin                        4,000         8,000         12,000         16,000
h0   0.8    160   1.6    240   2.4    320   3.2
80   0.8    160   1.6    240   2.4    320   3.2
b0   0.h    160   1.6    240   2.4         32J   3.1
60   0S    160   L.6       240   2.4    320   3.2                                                                                   1
80   0.8    160   1.6    Z40   2.4    320   3.2
120   1.2    240   2.4    360   3.6    4B0   4.8    480   4.8              480   4.8
120   1.2    240   2.4       360   3.6    360   3.6    3t0   3.6
120   1.2    240   2.4        240.  2.4      240   2.4
________________  ________________    _______  _____ __    120   1.2   _120 _,1,2  120    1.2
r.t2    tn..                   0.8            2.4            4.8            a                             8.4            9.2           10.4           12             12             12          '
*  P - 01Dr.*  V - wtitn:s 11FR-
T.t.l 1ro0.cion    LIe ..O 1. 65 ka.
1ht2  b/.L2js up bktr2naL.g 4 yn-ro Ofr  pI,-ntl,  n.
Yl 4   10 k/:,  r5 - 20 k, Yr 6   30 kg,
Yr 7 - 40 kg, Yr 8 -    k0a,. Yr 9 - 65 ka.
Yr 2. 202 on  tt.tili.0 1wL.   dopt 2 tr... nl got
10k4. trk     i Ir 5  t 20 ka   4000 - 80 to,î.



U,C.6ESRfi ClSAt;A 1tIGNC.  11 PggOJIt
Tr I         Tri2           Yr  3          r4            r  5         Yr.           Y.4  7        Yr8 à         Ir 9           I  10          Y.11         rY 12           * 13          Ir 14          Yr 1I
*r    v                      i v  f  V     r      V      r      V       r     Y      -, _           y      V r          V       F     V vv            v       r     S       r      v       r     v       r      v
Ad.p.to. Rat.              10î           U0            307           607
F..0l1.. 84dop1ngs        4,300        11.250        22,500        27.000
110' Il       210    S5    540Y  112    fO,41 137    t50   140    650   142
Fr,dt T.... <1"crttoentAî Fod,ncCtCfl
.doyLto   1,cr             O            207          4.01           601           807
F..11J.. Â4opcto4                       S,000        U,000         27.000        30,000
270-           1 2.1    540   3.4    010   8.1   2080  10.6
270   2.7   3140   3.4    810   *.1   1000  10.               I
210.  2.1    240   5.4    M1   8.1   1000  00.8
n10   2.7    340   5.4    *10   8.1    Me0   10.8                                                                                      C'
a10   2.1    540   5.4    0Io   8.1   1080  10.I  H
405   4,0    810 f    .1   1215  12.0   1620  1.2   1620  16.2   1620  16.2
s03   4.10010   11    1215  12.0   1215  12.0   1215  1t.0
405   4.0    110   8.1    81   8.1    810   0.1
____ ___                                                   _____        __    S40    4.0    405   f.0    405   4.0
TatrI Ton,                 2.7           8.1          16.2          271.          27.0          20.$            1.0          34.9          40.3           40.3          40.1
^ F-   .., V - .11i-o    m.( 
4. 510    24 kg - 110 t-            -t  -onl prod..tton pgr tro-  t. 65 kg tofr rr. er..                                                                                                                                              (D
1n.l. b1ild   p f0o. b.glnnlsg 4 yrr         Fft îr plantin  9 o11-
}  ,5 24 k4 - 270               'gr yr 4 - 10 ks. Yr 5 - 20 kgs, Y  6 - 20 kg,
Ir1 7   '00kg. Y8 -0 kg0, T, Oi - 65 kg.
22,500   24 kv - 540 wa.                  t1  2, 240 .8 th. fdtil11e.  1l1 rd.pt 3  r.. and oPar
21.00   24 ka - 130 t ...                 10 'otr..  In Yr 5 or 30 ka a 9000    2170 non..



RWANDA
ÉUGESERA GISAKA MIGONGO II
Economic Analysis: Agricultural Production and Roads
(RF million)
Project Year                       1     2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9    10      il    12      13     14      15     16     17     18     19    20
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002
Costs 1/
Project Management                63    48      41    43      42    12    12    12   12          12    12       12    12    12       12    12      12     12     12     12
Extension Activities             142     50    67    66    65    30         30    30   30        30    30       30     30    30      30    30    30       30     30     30
Roads                            110    68       70    60     59    20      23      50   20      23    20       50    20    20    20    20    23          50    20      20
Sub-total                 315   166   178   169   166    62          65    92    62    65    62         62      92     62     62     65    62      92     62     62
Physical Contingencies (7%)   22          12    12    12    12         4      4      6      4    4        4      4      6      4      4      4      4     6       4      4
TOTAL COSTS                      337   178   190   181   178    66           69    98    66   69        66      66     98     66     66    69    66       98    66      66
TOTAL BENEFITS2/                 2.3   8.8       18    58   116   204   259   301   322   344   346   346   346   346   346   346   346   346   346   346
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-o
1/ See detailed cost tables (Implementation Volume)
2/ From Table 4A.



RWANDA
BUGESERA CISAKA MIGONGO PROJECT ('GM 11)
PROJPT RIICESERA CISAKA MIONO (<8<2  IT)
Farm Model with Project                                                                                                                                                 Yodèle de ferme
Zone I                                                                                                                                                              Zone I
------------- Year O (Année 0)------------------------------ - --------- Year 10 (Année 10)-------
Area         Yield Il    Production   Value    Cash Incoae              Area      !ield I/    Production    Value          Cash Income
(Surface)   (Rendement) (Production) (Valeur) (Revenu monétaire) (Surface) (Rendement) (Production)  (Valeur) (Revenu Monétaire)
(ares)       (kg/ha)        (kg)        F.Rw       F. Pv       %        (ares)    (ares)          (kg)         F.RV        F. Rwv 
Crops                                                                                                                                                            Cultures
Coffee                       12.5           400 g          60        7 200       7,200    100       15.5          450 g          84          i0 ORO    10,080    100    Café
(150 trees) 2/                                                           (1R6 trees)2/
Fooderops                                                                                                                                                                  Cultures vivrières
Banana for beer              30           8 000         2 400       16 800       6,720      40      30          8 non        2 400           16 ROO      6,720      40    Ganane A bièire
(800 L)3/                                                            (ROO L)
Banana-fruit                  5           8 000           400        4 00n       1,000      75       5          R 000          400            4 000      1,000      25    Ranane fruit
Cassava (fresh) 4/           10           6 000           600        6 000         600      10      10          7 500          75n            7 5OO      1,125      15    Manioc (en frais)
Sweet potatoes                5           4 500           225        2 250         340      15       5          5 5so          275            2 750        550      20    Patate douce
Beans                        25             650           162.5      2 925         150       5      33.5 5/       650          218            3 920        785      20    Haricot
Maize                         5             800            40          400           40     10       5            qoO            45             450         45      10    MaiS
Sorghum                      20           1 000           200        2 800         700      25      20          1 200          240            3 360        R40      25    Sorgho
Groundnuts                    5             750            37.5      2 625         400      15       7            800            56           3 920        9R0      25    Arachide
Soya beans                   -              -               -          -            -       -        3            550           16.5            412         -       -      Soja
Livestock                                                                                                                                                                  Flevage
Milk                         -              -             30 L         750         250      33       -            -            60 L           1 500        75n      50    Lait
Meat - Miscellaneous 6/    -                _               -        2 500          -       -                     --                             000        -       -      Viande
Fruit-tree                    2           65 kg/tree       65 kg       650          -       -        R         65 kg/tree      260            2 600      1,300      50    Arbres fruitiers
(1 tree)                                  48 900      T7.4fi            (4 trees)                                  62 292    24,175
49 000 rounded                                                          62 000 rounded
lst season   2nd season                           lst season   2nd season
Cultivated Area 7/ 8/        82              96                                  94.5          107.5                                 Surface cultivée
Fallow                      118             104                                 105.5           Q2.5                                 Jachère
Physical Area              200              200                                 200            200                                   Surface phvsique
1/  Grain yields take into account seed requirements and losses                         8/  Permanent            Year 10                    Seasonal
2/  1 200 trees/ha (2.5 m x 3 m)                                                       l-t                                                           2nd
3/  3 kg banana = 1 liter of beer                                                            Coffee         15.5          Beans             20                                                Z
4/  Over a two year period therefore the harvest of 5 ares - 600 kg                          Beer banane   30.0           Maize              3        2                                       s
5/  Area fncreases through intercropplng with bananas                                        Fruit banana   5.0           Sweet potatoes   -          5                                       u
6/  Production based on the assumption that 1/3 of the farmers have                          Cassava        10.0           Sorgho            -       20
one head of cattle and each farmer has 2 goets or sheep                                  Trees           8.0          Groundnuts         -        7
7/  Permanent           Year O                    Seasonal                                                                Soya               3        -
lst      2nd                                              68.5
ares                              ares
Coffee        12.5           Reans            20        5
Beer banana   30.0          Maize              3        2
Pruit banana   5.0           Sweet potatoes             5
Cassava        10.0          Sorgho            -       20
Trees           2.0          Groundnuts        -        5



RUG8SERA CISAKA MIGONGO PROJeCT (BGM II)
PROJFT 3tWGESERA GISAVA MIGONGO (8(21 11)
Farm Model with Project                                                                                                                                                         Modèle de ferme
Zone 2                                                                                                                                                                      Zone 2
---------- Year 0 (Année 0)------------                               -------- Year 10 (Année 10)-------
Area         Yield 1/    Production   Value          Cash Income           Area      Vield I/    Production    Value             Cash Income
(Surface)   (Rendement) (Production) (Valeur) (Revenu monétaire) (Surface) (Rendement) (Production) (Valeur)  (Revenu monétaire)
(ares)       (kg/ha)         (kg)        F.Rw         F.Rw        Z       (ares)     (ares)          (kg)         F.Rw        F.Rw       %
C,rop                                                                                                                                                                     tllttres
Coffee                         6 2/           350             25.6      3 00n       3,000      ion       6             350            25.2        3   0on   3,000      100        Café
(72 trees)         tree                                                     (72 trees)      tree
Fooderops                                                                                                                                                                         Cultures vivrières
Banana for beer               15.0          8 000            400 L    12 000           -        -       15.n         8 000         4 001         12 nOn         -                 Ranane à bière
(2 660 L)3/                                               (7 660)
Banana-fruit                   2.5          8 000            200        2 000         400       20       2.5         8 000           200          ? 000        400      20        Ranane fruit
Cassava (fresh) 4/            10.0          5 000            500        5 ono         165       11      10.0         7 00n           700          7 000        230      33        Xanioc (en frais)
Sweet potatoes                 8.0          4 000            320        S 200         480       15       q.0         5 0oo           450          4 000        800      20        Patate douce
Beans                         25.0            600            150        2 700         270       10      30.n 5/        650          lî5           3 510       470       15       !Haricot
Maize                          5.0            800             40           400         -        -        5.0           8nO            40            400                           MaIs
Sorghum                       15.0            9o0            135        1 900         500       25      15.0         1  o00          150          2 1n0        525      25        Sorgho
Groundntits                    5.0            650             32.5      2 275       1,R20       80       8.0           7n0            56          1 Q20    3,136        80         Arachide
Soya beans                    -               -                -          -            -        -        4.0           500            20            375         -       -         Soja
Livestock                                                                                                                                                                         Rievage
Milk                          -               -                  a -                      -                     -                     -             -                              Lit
Meat                          -               -                         1500 6/    40O          25       -                                        3 000        750      25         Viande
Fruit-tree                    -               -                -          -                              4.0        65 kg            130          1 30n                           Arbres fruitiers
-  31 o5     7,(035             (2 trees)  (tree)                        42 605       , 3lO
31 000 rounded                                                           47 5on                          nunded
Ist season    2nd season                               lst season      2nd season
Cultivated Area 7/ 8/         59-5          69.5                                     5q.5            65.5                                  Surface cultivée
Fallow                       140.5         134.5                                    134.5           130.5                                  Jachère
Physical Area                200           200                                      200             200                                    Sirface physique
1/  Grain yields take into accomnt seed requtrements and losses                     8/  Permanent            Year 10                Seasonal
2/  1 200 trees/ha (2.5 M x 3 M)                                                                                                   slta     nd
3/  3 kg banana -I lt. of beer                                                      Coffee           6.0        Beans              22        8
4/  Over a 2 year period therefore the harvest of 5 ares - 500 kg                   JJeer banana   15.0         Maize                3       2
5/  Area increases through intercropping wvth bananas                               Fruit banana   2.5          Sweet potatoes    3          6
6/  3 goats/farm                                                                    Cassava         10.0         Sorgho              -      15
Groundnute          -       5
Soja                4       -
7/  Permanent           Year 0                 Seasonal                                             32                                      3          .5 o.
Iat       2nd                                                                                                                                             a
Coffee          6.0         Beans             20        5
Beer banana   15.0          Maize              3        2
Fruit banana   2.5          Sweet potatoes   3          5
Cassava         10.0        Sorgho             -       15
Groundnuts         -        5
33.5                                   -      926    -93.5



RWANDA
Bugesera Gisaka Migongo II
Organizational Chart
|Project Coordi:,ain
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Committee _
National Research                  Rubilizi                                                                                                                                  atPermanent SereNationOf  Pin       of
Institute (ISAR)               Training School                                           (Project Coordinator)                                                            pulation Office             Public Works
Kigali Project Bureau -/
Finance/Account ing
Regional Development                                                                Regional Development                                                         _ k
Comsittee 2                                      _  ___                             Cummattee   2/                                                    Department
Bugesera  2-                                                                     Gisaka Yigongo -
Karama Station
ISAR
______________             ~~Regionai Conter        _____________Regional Center                                                                       Pilt                                adee
Cashora                                                                             Kibungo                                 U                          Brigade
r .une de                Comune de                 CosnOne de                                   Conune de                 Comune de                 Comune de
Ngenda                  Kanzenze          G         ashora                                     Rusumo                      ukra                    Birega
4 PAVa              rPAV4      s                   5 PAVs V                                     S PAVs J                    PAVaI                   3 PAVs    j
15 sectee1  secteurs                                                                            l  secte                  10 secteu                  2secteura
1/  Members of the  rojst toordinatiU&Committee                      2/  Members of the Regional Development Committees    3/  ProJec  Staff Based  n Kigali ProJect Bureau
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Develop-ent                    Prefect (PresideLt)                                          Financial Director
Ministry of Health                                                    Sub-Prefects                                                Financial Advisor
Ministry of Social Affairs and Cooperative Development               Regional Director (Secretary)                                Livestock Coordinator
M1inistry of Public Works                                             Project Coordinator (Kigali)                                (Bureau to disappear by Jan. 1985).
mjnjstry of Interior                                                 Communa] Bourgemestres                                                                                                                          a
Communal Agronomists and Veterinarians
Prefectorial Agronomista and Veterinarians
Chief Cooperative Officer
Director - Banques Populaires (local branches)
Dr. Ribongo Hospital



-65-
Chart II
RWANDA
BUGESERA GISAKA MIGONGO II PROJECT
Pre-Project Activities
1982
June   July   August   September   October   November   December
Personnal  -  Recruitment (X)
-  Extension/Training Advisor                                x_
-  Monitoring and Evaluation Advisor                                               x_
-  Research Specialists
-  Family Planning Advisor
-  Roade Experts                                                                               x
Building Construction
-  2 PAVa
-  Research housing and Laboratory/storage
Procurement
-  Road building Equipment (ordering)                   x-
- Vehicles
Research (3 pick-ups)                                     x_        ..           _
Family Planning (3 amall cars)                            x                   . _
Training
-  Asiistant Veterinarians for Sheep Breeding
Studies
-  Family Planning Attitude Survey
-    Research  Seminar   (ISAR)                         ------  --------  -----------  ---------
4         I
4-15-82



-66-
CHART III
RWANDA
BUGESERA GISAKA MIGONGO II PROJECT
Implementat ion Schedule
O         1          2          3          4          5
Calendar Year                         1982       1983       1984       1985      1986       1987       1988
Quarters                      1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4
I.Key Dates
Negotiations                     x
Effectiveness                      x
Submission of Annual
Work Plans                       x          x          x         x          x
Completion                                                                                 x
Closing                                                                                               x
. II.Project Staffing
Internationally-Recruited
- Recruitment (x) and Duration
Extension/Training Advisor         x_     _
Monitoring & Evaluation              z-_ 
Financial Advisor              X                         - _                  - _
Research Specialists                 x_
Roads Experts                        x
Famlly Planning Advisor
- Recruitment-Local Staff        x
III.Building Construction
- PAVs
- Research housing and
laboratory
- FamIly Planning Clinie
- Nutrition Centers                             _
IV.Road Building
-  Procurement
- Road Construction
Bugesera
Gisaka Migongo
V.Training and Extension
VI.Research Activities                     _
VII.Livestock Activities
Rusumo Ranch
Sheep and Goat Improvement            _
Nasho Ranch
VIII.Pilot Family Planning                                                               - _________
(See Chart IV)
IX. Nutrition Center Support
-   Construction and Repairs                    _-
-   Nutrition Survey                        ___
X. Studies - Land Use
Bugesera - Cyohoha
Nasho
XI. Ruberizi                                        _      _|



IBRD 15961
30°00'                                      , d3                             OCTOBER I981
RWANDA                                                              K4LOMETERS
o       10     20      '30
BUGESERA                                Ndoma(                       1
GISAKA-MIGONGO PROJECTf                                                                MILE
Project  Locations                                                   Th. -p -s  prep-t e
,                esc (c!1  z C   t   2hé roseesoce vhcf sthe 'esderc e
Threra  cc  c c   -dtisc c
-s/c gtr   v   W ,   - tshs  s arn cf rhe
Nyagotr                              wadd Be-s cIl 's$  -Ysuer 
a3Ç5Y                                                           A KAG ERA,                        j       3
J          ~~~Byumba
bo Reheegers          )Jpu  SEumba                       g         N A T 10 N A l
4  z   >      ~~~~p a R K               7    
N
z
K A }  KAhClZENZE  |  3 ,.<  MugeserrJ        l   ,.  RUKIl/sema
(>vumu >r  
PROJECT BOUNDARIES / lIMITES DU/PROJET
.. ANI> I~                       ?T  .   ,    MAIN   ROADS  /  POUITES  PRINCIPALES        2'30
,I7UGAND:<  .150MAt      ~ RIVERS / CO UPS D'[fAU
KENYA                          -   MARSHES / &MAReC4A5F5
12         Ve a                       czircs  LAKES / LACS
RWANÙ                                                    M MLITARY RESE1RVATiON / ZONVE MIIAvIRE
DtRFiSii7  5.7 -} 4<, 3 >    ff i         ---  NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARIES / iMITES DU PARC
.I. (t anç  n d ia n  -  COMMUNE BOUNDARIES / ZIMIAT5 DE COMMUNE
ZAIRE          TANZAiA                                      PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES / I/MiTES DE PREFECTU/RES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES IFERONTIEFRES
eT 4~+    ;   t                                            INTERNATIONVALES
ZAMBIAL           u                                 300305



0
1



IBRD 15967
30°000                                               30°15'                   OCTOBER 1981
RWAN DA
BUGESERA GISAKA-MIGONGO PROJECT
BUGESERA REGION
ECOLOGICAL ZONES
ZONES ECOLOGIO I'ES
2°00'                                                                                               2'00'-
KILOMETERS
0        5         10       15
.       I         ~    ~I  I   
0              5               10
v X    -- //        -._ =-   -  iMILES
! j -- g f             ,/              0eseroNYAt
2015 '                   /_1____._____                                                         N    2°15'-
____________,=-.Karama
RuM_.a
tu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Th,s map has been prepared by the  ,
Wortd Bank'e staff esxusivOely for  r
lhe co-ovene, ne o> the roeades utf
the eport to whicht r?sr atta eh
The denominat,ons used and the                                                L. Pugwero
boundaries shuwn on this ifo
do ot irnp, un the pnrt of the                                                 N
Wold Bank and iafftiiiaes. any,
,udg,ment on the leget statvs of,
any ter,tory or any endoreement
or acceptance cif such btorxandaes,              », 
30*000-
t r aooroo  utso  ,r'dn
I.             \               -- REGION BOUNDARIES / I iMIrES DE RtGION
-// U5ANDA  i       :-  : ECOLOGICAL BOUNDARY / eîMJE ECOZOGIQUE
I   COFFEE GROWING AREA / ZONE CA4E/COLE
. m .: ~~~~~SEMI-ARID AREA 1-70Nf SEf4-AR/Dtfê
ZAIRE                           Z               RIVERS / COURS D'E4U                               2°30'-
> X,    r__, MILITARY ZONE / TErRAJN MILITAIRE
Kîe<Ii                Il..            a s  1 G.M. RANCH / RANCH B.GM.
RWA1N A(i )                         (    COMMUNAL HEADOUARTERS / BURfAU COMMUNAI
0    SUBPREFECTURE HEADQUARTERS / BUREAUDSOUS-RFEUR
RURIiNDI/       "t                      SECTORS(SEE REPORT FOR NAMES) /SECTEURs
SECTOR BOUNDARIES / I/MITESDE SECrEUR
J'    TTA N ZA NI A                 COMMUNE BOUNDARIES / ZIMITES D COMMUNE
-    9                        -  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES/FRONIE/EE INERfAhAtIONVALES
< q rl7n90nykaD         '                           30 15
w     N   %`         :             .                             i.......... 



j



IBRD 15966
30030'                                                  30045                        OCTOBE
RWAN DA
BUGESERA GISAKA-MIGONGO PROJECT
GISAKA-MIGONGO REGION
ECOLOGICAL ZONES                                                 / j0- 
ZONFS ECOlOGIQUfS
E  0      5          10         15 KILOMETERS
0                510 MILES                                                  X         
t                              ~~~~ ~ ~~Gitwe                                                             -Ix  
KIBUNGO
Nyorubuye         `
/ 0 ~~~~o Ruki                 r       aX   0D 
02'°5'       -J                   /                                                                                  21'5
25                                                                                                                  20i5 g <    \'  
a,  , S /  \    * S   I    k   ,        k                         ~~~~~~    ~ ~~Rusumo`  Z 
BURUNDI,_i                                                                                                            '
_____________________ _  - -  -REGION BOUNDARtES /ZIMITES DE REG ION
t      .         -: :. ~~~ECOLOGICAL BOUNDARY /I1- !MF C-OOGIQUf                             |
COFFEE GROWING AREA /ZONE CAFfICOLE
c   >' UGANDA  X       -     SEMI- ARtD AREA / ZONf SEMI-ARIDE
. -  s RIVERS / COURS D'EAU
53  {   <    Z   0  COMMUNAL HEADOUARTERS /BUREAU COMM UNAL 
Z A I R E                           >   S         i    PREFECTURE HEADQUARTERS / 9UPEAUt PfEF,-CTUR,?E43
ViX_  7/;ctorto,a\,         SECTORS (SEE REPORT FOR NAMES) / SECTEURS
SECTOR BOUNDARIES / /MlTES DE SECTEUR5
RWA5.~k   crko-A/igongo                     COMMUNE BOUNDARIES /  LIMITESDE COMMUNE
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES / FRONTIERES INATERiNATIONALES
BU RbND,>     .eéie.70n7 .5
BURUNDI -r                             This map has been prepared by the Wordd Banko staff exclus,veiy for the convenience
55 z   TA N Z A NI5-A  Of the reades of the report te which it is attached Trhe denotrinations used and the
bonndaries shown on this ma do nost impsy, or the part of thes World Bank and its
t. Tanganytks',           ~~~~~~affiiiates, anyjud9ment on the tegal statue of' any teuntory or any endorsement or-
i  ___________________________________________________________________ _acceptarce     o7f  such     boundaries.



