Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22359 JM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR A
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
August 9, 2001
Sector Management Unit for Human Development
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 6, 2001)
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (JMD)
1JMD = US$.022
US$1 = JMD 45.45
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 -- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy            NGOs       Non-Goverinmental Organizations
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability       NIS        National Insurance Scheme
Assessment
DFID      Department for International           OPM        Office of the Prime Minister
Development
ECD       Early Childhood Devlopment             PIOJ       Planning Institute of Jamaica
FMIS      Financial Management Information       PMR        Project Management Report
System
GOJ       Governnent of Jamaica                  ROSE II   Jamaica Reform of Secondary
Education Project
IRC       Human Resource Council                 SA         Special Account
IBRD      Intemational Bank for Reconstruction   SIF        Social Investment Fund
and Development (World Bank)
ICB       Intemational Competitive Bidding       SLC        Survey of Living Conditions
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank        SMP        Staff Monitored Program
IMF       Intemational Monetary Fund             SOE        Statement of Expenditures
JSIF      Jamaica Social Investment Fund         SPAD       Social Protection and
Development
KMA       Kingston Metropolitan Area             SSN        Social Safety Net
LAC       Latin America and the Caribbean        TA         Technical Assistance
Region
LACI      Loan Administration Change             TC         Technical Cooperation
Initiative
MIS       Management Information System          TCT        Targeted Conditional Transfer
MLGCD   Ministry of Local Government, Youth      TOR        Terms of Reference
and Community Development
MLSS      Ministry of Labour and Social          UBP        Unified Benefit Program
Security
NCB       National Competitive Bidding           USAID      United States Agency for
International Development
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:    Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Andrea Vennehren



JAMAICA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     12
3. Benefits and target population                                                    13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          20
2. Financial                                                                         21
3. Technical                                                                         22
4. Institutional                                                                     23
5. Environmental                                                                     24
6. Social                                                                            24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                26
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    26
2. Critical risks                                                                    27
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    28



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            28
2. Other                                                                               29
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          29
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         39
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   41
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               43
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       44
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      53
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    55
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   56
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             58
Annex 11: Overview of current Social Safety Net                                           60
Annex 12: Social Assessment                                                               63
Annex 13: Institutional Arrangements: Responsibilities of the SPAD Division               65
Annex 14: Organization Chart: Ministry of Labour and Social Security                      67
Annex 15: Proxy Means Test in Jamaica                                                     68
Annex 16: Letter of Development Policy                                                    69
MAP(S)
Map of Jamaica



JAMAICA
Social Safety Net Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHS
Date: August 9, 2001                              Team Leader: Andrea Vermehren
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos  Sector Manager/Director: Xavier E. Coll
Project ID: P067774                               Sector(s): SA - Social Assistance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $ 40.00
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Years to maturity: 17.5
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                      37.50           0.00         37.50
IBRD                                                          35.37           4.63         40.00
Total:                                                        72.87           4.63
Borrower: JAMAICA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND SOCIAL SECURITY
Address:
14 National Heroes Circle
Kingston 4
Jamaica
Contact Person: Mr. Alvin McIntosh, Permanent Secretary
Tel: (876) 922-4207          Fax: (876) 924-9639            Email: mlss@netcom-jm.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005
Annual    4.94  11.55  11.02    12.49
Cumulative    4.94       16.49     27.51      40.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 01/02/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
,OCS PAD Fans Rw~ Mach. YOO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project will support the Government's efforts to transform the Social Safety Net (SSN) into a
fiscally sound and more efficient system of social assistance for the poor and vulnerable. Specifically, the
project seeks to provide better and more cost-effective social assistance to the extreme poor. To this end,
the project will: (a) consolidate major income transfer programs into a Unified Benefit Program (UBP) that
ensures (i) a meaningful level of benefits, (ii) cost-efficient and accessible delivery system, (iii) access to
benefits linked to desirable behavioral changes for promoting investment in the human capital development
of the poor, especially children, and (iv) effective targeting of social assistance to special groups; and (b)
strengthen institutional capacity to (i) operate the program effectively and efficiently, and (ii) implement
overall social safety net reform elements, including a transparent targeting mechanism.
Jamaica has a long tradition of public provision of welfare programs, dating back to the 19th century. The
Government of Jamaica (GOJ) currently operates a large number of social assistance programs aimed at
the delivery of cash and in-kind benefits and social services to individuals and families who are poor and to
individuals with specific needs. In 1999/2000, the GOJ, with support from the World Bank, conducted
various studies on the SSN which pointed to the need for reform to reduce fragmentation and duplication of
services, improve targeting of benefits and increase coverage of persons who are poor. In addition, more
cost effective provision of meaningful benefits was needed and links of welfare benefits to human capital
investment, especially through school attendance and preventive health care, were deemed desirable. Based
on these studies and a series of consultative workshops with a broad range of government agencies,
academics and civil society, an inter-institutional task force led by the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ)
developed a Policy Matrix for the Reform of the SSN of Jamaica. The SSN reform proposal was approved
by Cabinet in October 2000 and provides the basis for the proposed project.
T'his loan is part of a coordinated package of financial and technical assistance requested by the
Government of Jamaica from the donor community to support the reform. The Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) is preparing a complementary US$40 million SSN sector loan to (a) protect
social sector and safety net spending during a period of strong fiscal adjustment, and (b) facilitate the
restructuring and better targeting of several important safety net programs, including the school feeding
program. The IDB loan is linked to progress in the implementation of the new Unified Benefit Program
and the targeting mechanism. An IDB Technical Cooperation (TC) operation of US$1.2 rmillion will also
support the analysis/restructuring of other safety net programs closely related to IDB's health and education
sector operations. Finally, British DFID is supporting the GOJ with Technical Assistance to improve
Social Policy coherence and evaluation capacity.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The program will begin with an eight month pilot in the Parish of St. Catherine that will be accompanied by
a process evaluation to assess bottlenecks and aid program design before the program is scaled up to full
national coverage. During this time, the following data collection instruments that are further described in
Annex I will form the basis of the Monitoring and Evaluation system:
* Household Surveys. The household surveys will take advantage of the Jamaica Survey of Living
Conditions (SLC) to oversample program beneficiaries. This oversampling combined with the data
available from the SLC will allow for program evaluation and an assessment of poverty targeting.
*   Monitoring Indicators. The program's Management Information System (MIS) will generate
- 2 -



monitoring indicators to track program performance and efficiency.
*   Qualitative Beneficiary Assessment. A series beneficiary assessment will be conducted with a
sub-sample of beneficiaries selected from the quantitative sample to assess beneficiary satisfaction.
The impact and outputs of the Unified Benefit Program will be assessed by the following measurable
indicators:
a) Outcome Indicators
The following indicators will be measured:
(i) Education grants
Change in school attendance - primary and secondary school
Change of enrollnent for secondary school
(ii) Health grants
Change in the percentage of children brought to health centers for preventive care
Change in children age 0-6 and not enrolled in school with on-time, complete immunization scheme
(iii) Adult Assistance grants
Change in poor pregnant, and lactating mothers visiting health centers for timely check ups
Change in poor elderly, disabled and other beneficiaries visiting health centers
(iv) Beneficiary satisfaction with the UBP (will be assessed through beneficiary consultations)
(v) Percentage of overall SSN expenditure channeled through the Unified Benefit Program (target > 19.5
percent).
b) Output indicators
(i) Number of beneficiaries (target > 217,000 total in Year 3 of project)
(ii) Approximate monthly benefit under the program (target: Year 1: US$6, Year 2: US $6, Year 3 US$7.5,
Year 4 and thereafter US$9 per person/month). (Benefits will be gradually increased to replace the existing
transfer programs).
(iii) School attendance rate by children (primary and secondary students eligible under the UBP to attend at
least 85 percent of school sessions).
(iv) Health care utilization by children 0-6 and not enrolled in school (target: Number of visits according to
national standards, see annex 2).
(v) Percentage of grant recipients below the poverty line (target > 70 percent).
(vi) Percentage of eligible poor not receiving grant (target < 30 percent).
(vii) Administrative costs below 15 percent (Year 3 of project).
The targets will be reviewed based on the experience of the pilot phase.
- 3 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: SecM2000-680            Date of latest CAS discussion: November 30, 2000
The Jamaica Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2001/02 builds on the Government's development
agenda which rests on four pillars: (i) restoring economic growth; (ii) ensuring that growth is inclusive and
that the poor are adequately protected; (iii) improving governance, efficiency and effectiveness in the public
sector; and (iv) ensuring sustainable development.
Based on this agenda, and given the context of the fiscal, economic, social and environmental challenges,
the Bank's program with Jamaica aims to help prevent a reversal of the recent gains in poverty reduction
and create the foundation for sustained growth. The CAS lays out a highly focused program, based on
three principles: (i) a focus on the Bank's core mandate of poverty reduction; (ii) a focus on areas where
the Bank has a comparative advantage; and (iii) a focus on complementarity with other development
partners. Under the base case scenario, the Bank's lending program includes fast-disbursing support to
restructure the financial sector, and, closely linked to the above, support for a social sector program
consisting of the proposed Social Safety Net operation and a Secondary Education project (ROSE II).
The proposed Social Safety Net project speaks directly to the CAS goal of "protecting the poor and
ensuring inclusion" by enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of the social safety net, focusing
particularly on improving assistance to the poorest. First, the project will improve efficiency of service
delivery by consolidating the existing social assistance programs into a Unified Benefit Program. Strong
technical assistance and training will be provided to strengthen institutional capacities at central and
local/parish levels. Second, it will introduce an objective and transparent targeting mechanism that will be
used for selecting beneficiaries of the UBP as well as other poverty alleviation programs later on (school
feeding, etc.). Third, by linking benefits to school attendance and health clinic visits for children and
pregnant mothers, the project will improve the long-term accumulation of human capital of poor children
and their ability to break out of the inter-generational cycle of poverty. And fourth, the project will improve
targeting of transfers to special target groups (e.g. disabled) and improve their health care by linking
benefits to health clinic visits as well. This investment project is an integral part of the Government of
Jamaica's strategy in meeting the CAS goals.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Declining Growth: Threat to Recent Improvements in Poverty
Jamaica has been experiencing a difficult phase of low or negative economic growth, caused mainly by
external shocks, the impact of a tight monetary policy adopted in 1995, and a continuing financial sector
crisis. Although inflation has been reduced significantly from around 80 percent in 1991 to about 8 percent
in 1999, GDP declined in real terms about 4 percent per year between FY 94/95 and FY 98/99.
Accompanying this decline, Jamaica has experienced large fiscal deficits over the last five years due to a
long term accumulation of outstanding debt, and more recently, the Government's bail out of large indebted
banks during a financial crisis in 1997. These deficits averaged around 6 percent of GDP in the latter half
of the 1990s and declined to 4 percent in FYI 999/2000. At present, 62 percent of central government's
budget is spent on interest and redemption payments. In order to balance the budget and curb the adverse
debt dynarnics fueled by the deficit, the government has committed itself to a firther reduction in the fiscal
deficit. As a signal of its commitment to this policy, the GOJ agreed on a Staff Monitored Program (SMP)
with the IMF, one component of which is the strengthening of the SSN in order to protect the poor during
this transition period.
-4 -



Despite negative growth during most of the period since 1995, many of the country's social indicators are
still good and recent trends indicate declining poverty. In 1991, 44 percent of the population was poor (as
defined by the poverty line) as compared to 17 percent in 1999. The forces which have worked to lower
poverty during a period of sustained recession remain poorly understood and in need of rigorous
investigation, but are attributed in part to the effects of migration, remittances from abroad, and informal
sector activities. However, these factors were also present prior to 1991, underscoring the importance of
further research into the causes of the decline of poverty in the 1 990s.
Even though poverty did decline, the decline tapered off in 1997/1998 and in 1999/2000 poverty increased
slightly. The challenge for the Government now lies in maintaining the achievements in poverty
reduction. In addition, there are serious concems relating to income and non-income dimensions of poverty
and inequality. In Jamaica, the poor have disproportionately low access to quality educational
opportunities, and are more exposed to violence. Perhaps more significantly, their age distribution --
almost half of the poor are under 18 and a further 10 percent are over 65 -- limits household strategies,
making the need for effective and well-targeted social assistance programs critical. Poverty is
overwhelmingly rural in character, with nearly 80 percent of the poor living in rural areas and less than 10
percent in the Kingston Metropolitan area. However, there are heavy concentrations of poor households in
the violence torn inner city areas of Kingston. Although women head only 44 percent of Jamaican
households, 66 percent of poor households are female-headed. Poor households are large, with 40 percent
of poor families having six or more members and nearly one-fifth with 8 or more members. Sound health
and education policies together with a well designed, targeted safety net are urgently needed to alleviate
living conditions particularly for the poorest and most vulnerable groups.
I. Main Sector Issues
Jamaica's Social Safety Net: Need for Reform
Expenditures on the social safety net. Jamaica has made a continuing commitment to the social sectors
and, despite increasing resource constraints, real allocations to health and education have increased in
recent years. The Government invested 6.2 percent of GDP in education and 2.5 percent in health (FY
2000/01), a considerable allocation compared to other middle-income countries in the region. However,
expenditures on the social safety net programs - defined broadly to include programs that provide income
support and access to basic services to the poor and vulnerable and/or those needing assistance after
economic downturns, natural disasters, or household-specific adverse events that lower income - accounted
for only 2.6 percent of GDP in FY2000/01 or approximately US$78.4 million per year. This is well below
the average in the Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) region where expenditures on SSN range from
a high of almost 9 percent in Chile to a low of 0.7 percent in Haiti.
Array of programs and lack of coordination. In addition to the comparatively low budget allocations to
the social safety net, the modest amount is spent on an array of programs. The Government operates over
twenty social safety net programs targeted to persons who are poor and/or vulnerable. At present, there are
three income support programs, four education based transfer programs, two pharmaceutical programs,
two feeding programs, three housing programs, three community-based safety net programs including a
social fund, a variety of community based training programs and other (minor) programs. An overview of
the main SSN programs, their beneficiaries and budgets for 2000/01 is provided in annex 1 1. Duplication
of administrative systems and a lack of coordination increases both the direct costs of programs and the
indirect costs to beneficiaries.
-5 -



Insufficient targeting and coverage. A recent assessment of Jamaica's social safety net revealed that it is
not well targeted to the poor. Means testing criteria and procedures differ for the different programs
despite the fact that many of them seek to reach the same population. Some programs are not targeted to
the poor. Despite a large number of programs, the existing safety net has a low coverage of the poor.
Formal social insurance systems like the national pension system is limited to those with formal sector
employment who have made contributions, excluding the majority of the elderly who do not have a
contribution history. The biggest safety net program in Jamaica, the Food Stamp Program, provides
benefits to approximately 170,000 individuals, but only reaches 15 percent of the poorest quintile, and 9
percent of the second poorest quintile. The Poor Relief Program reaches between 5 and 7 percent of
households in the poorest quintile. While these programs are progressive in the distribution of benefits
(largely due to the low level of benefits), there is still significant leakage. In the Food Stamp Program, for
example, approximately one third of beneficiaries come from the three richest per capita household
consumption quintiles. A high proportion of the poor appear to be unaware of the range of benefits
available or unable to afford the direct and indirect costs (travel, time, etc.) to obtain benefits.
Low level of benefits. Finally, Jamaica's social safety net programs provide beneficiaries with a very low
level of benefits that does not adequately protect the poor. The Food Stamp prograrn pays approximately
US$ 1 88 per child per month - only 1.2 percent of the basic food basket. The average monthly Poor Relief
and Public Assistance benefits - mainly targeted towards elderly and disabled persons are slightly higher at
US$4 per person, but benefits are strictly rationed, coverage is low and eligibility criteria are not employed
rigorously. The per capita value of all three transfers combined adds up to about 10 percent of the overall
poverty line in Jamaica. The low level of benefits contributes to the high proportion of poor not applying
for the benefit.
Education and Health: Disadvantages of the Poor
Favorable Social Indicators. Jamaica has made impressive progress in providing universal coverage in
primary school enrollment and near universal coverage in junior secondary education (grades 7-9). Gender
equity in access to education has been achieved. Furthermore, Jamaica was a pioneer in the development of
primary health care. As a result, its social indicators are favorable compared to most countries at similar
income levels in the region as reflected in the low infant mortality, high school enrollment rates, and long
life expectancy.
Persistent low school attendance. The social indicators mask a significant lack of access to education for
the poor. Although they are enrolled, children (and particularly poor children) do not attend school
regularly. In 1999, 35 percent of children from families of the poorest quintile attended school less than 15
days per month. The main reason given by poor families for school absence was "money problems". A
primary coping strategy among families that are poor is to keep children home from school when money is
short. Poor educational quality and low school attendance, particularly in schools in inner-cities and rural
areas, combine for poor results-approximately 30 percent of 6th grade students are functionally illiterate.
In addition, enrollment corresponds to economic status in upper secondary (grades 10 and 11) and tertiary
education. At ages 15-16, enrollment rates among children from the poorest quintile fall to 67 percent,
against a national average of 83 percent and 94 percent of the children from the wealthiest quintile. This
gap between poor and non-poor widens further with age. Only 21 percent of children aged 17-19 from the
poorest quintile are enrolled in school, as compared to 87 percent of the wealthiest quintile. The IDB and
USAID are supporting primary education programs to improve the quality of primary education. The
World Bank is providing funding, through its Reform of Secondary Education Project, for initiatives to
improve access to and quality of secondary education.
- 6 -



Declining health indicators. There are increasing problems in maintaining health indicators.
Immunization rates among infants from birth to eleven months are down from 93 percent in 1993 to 85
percent in 1999. Although most children are eventually immunized by the time they start primary school at
age 6, the late receipt of vaccinations increases the risk of preventable illnesses. Increasing problems with
prenatal care parallels the decline in on-time immunizations. Only 25 percent of mothers have their first
prenatal visit during the first four months of pregnancy. Anemia in pregnancy affects approximately 50
percent of all pregnant women and is a contributing factor to the persistent incidence (10 percent) of low
birth weight babies.
The elderly have the highest rates of self-reported illness, of being ill for a longer duration of time and of
decreased ability to carry out activities of daily living. At the same time, the elderly - and especially the
elderly poor - are less likely than the general population to be covered by health insurance and more likely
to need medical care. Changing family structure and increased migration have augmented the risk of social
isolation and loss of or abandonment by relatives. Almost 10 percent of the poor are elderly. The 1991
Census data reported that approximately 5 percent of the population is disabled. Although not all disabled
persons are poor, inequities in access to education, training and employment increase the risk of poverty
among the disabled.
II. Government StrateLy
Jamaica's most recent Poverty Eradication Strategy is summarized in Ministry Paper #13, signed by the
Prime Minister in 1997, which sets broad guidelines for programming in this area. Key features of the
strategy include a focus on more development oriented programs that especially target families with small
children and youth, better overall targeting of programs, and rationalization to increase cost effectiveness
where possible.
In recognition of the serious weaknesses in the social safety net, Cabinet asked the Planning Institute of
Jamaica (PIOJ) and the Office of the Prime Minister (OPM) in 1998 to take the lead in developing a
comprehensive reform proposal for the social safety net including a suitable process to address the
Government's concern about the SSN shortcomings. The objective of the reform proposal was defined as
"developing a well-crafted integrated safety net program aimed at empowering the poor and vulnerable to
achieve and maintain a satisfactory living standard. Such a prograrn should be effective, efficient and
participatory." The complexity of the assignment to improve both the effectiveness and efficiency of the
SSN prompted the PIOJ to invite the World Bank and the IDB to engage in a collaborative process to
develop a SSN reform proposal (for more detail on the reform process supported by the Bank, see section
D4).
Five objectives for the SSN reform were defined a priori: (i) to tailor programs more specifically to risks
and conditions associated with poverty and vulnerability and to develop an associated targeting mechanism;
(ii) to integrate programs in order to reduce delivery costs; (iii) to ensure a comprehensive range of benefits
to address different conditions (including age-specific factors) associated with poverty and vulnerability;
(iv) to introduce flexibility in programs (for up- or down-scaling as needed); and (v) to ensure efficiency
and fiscal sustainability of programs, notably by maximizing complementarity and partnerships with
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). Government has identified the following as target groups of the
overall reform: children in poverty, youth at risk, the elderly poor, the disabled, poor single-parent
households; large poor (rural) families; the long-term unemployed, and victims of social or natural disaster
or HIV/AIDS. Special priority is to be given to children and youth.
As a result of the collaborative process, Government developed a sector-wide approach for the SSN
- 7 -



reform, encompassing all existing programs targeted to the poor. The proposal, approved by Cabinet,
addresses institutional, administrative, managerial and programmatic changes. Among the key reforn
measures proposed is the development and implementation of a universal targeting system based on a proxy
means test. The system is to be used by the main safety net programs in order to increase transparency in
the selection of beneficiaries, reduce the administrative costs associated with having each program carry
out its own assessment of eligibility, and improve targeting. The proposal also calls for the unification of
the three cash/in-kind transfer programs into one unified benefit, thereby reducing fragmentation and
duplication. Cost-savings are to be translated into a higher benefit level, in order to improve the impact of
the program on poverty levels. In addition to restructuring the income support programs, the proposal also
aims at reforming the various school-based and other programs, improving their targeting, efficiency and
impact. Finally, the reform places emphasis on the development of monitoring and evaluation systems for
the various programs, building on existing instruments, such as the yearly Survey of Living Conditions.
The GOJ's strategy to reform the social safety net, its implementation plan and the respective targets will be
detailed in a Policy Letter, which is attached as an Annex to this PAD (See Annex 16).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The above mentioned assessment of the Social Safety Net carried out in 1999/2000 pointed to the need for
reform of the social safety net to reduce fragmentation and duplication of services, to improve targeting to
the poor and to increase the level of benefits. The Social Safety Net project would reduce vulnerability to
income swings among the poor and foster long-run investments in human capital by linking benefits to
behavioral change (e.g. school attendance, health check ups). Furthermore, it would strengthen the
capacity of Government to establish a targeting mechanism that can be applied to all poverty programs,
and a monitoring and evaluation system for the income transfer scheme. The following sector issues will be
addressed by the project:
1. Sector Issues
Poverty. As noted previously, Jamaica has managed significant poverty reduction in spite of weak
economic performance. However, further gains in poverty reduction are unlikely without the resumption of
growth, and even with the reduction in poverty observed over the 1990s, there is still a group of Jamaicans
who have remained poor--some 17 percent in 1999. This program is designed to help lift some of the
chronic poor out of poverty (poor elderly, disabled, large rural families), and to ensure that the
inter-generational cycle of poverty is not repeated, by investing in the human capital of poor children. The
program is targeted towards the most vulnerable groups, including poor children and pregnant women, and
in the Jamaican counterpart financing, the elderly and persons with disabilities.
Organizational fragmentation. The SSN system in Jamaica is marked by a lack of coordination and little
integration between programs. Duplication of administrative systems increases the direct costs of the
program and also increases indirect costs to recipients (in terns of time and travel costs). In the face of
fiscal constraints, it has become increasingly important to establish a fiscally sound social safety net that
targets Jamaica's scarce resource to the most vulnerable but that also provides programs that are responsive
to the varied needs of clients and that enhance the productivity and dignity of the individual. Therefore,
GOJ decided to merge the three income transfer programs into a new Unified Benefit Program along the
lines of a new generation of conditional transfer programs developed in Mexico, Colombia and elsewhere.
Among the many social assistance programs in Jamaica there are a number of small programs whose
benefits are limited and therefore impossible to measure. The Government of Jamaica decided to terminate
some of these and redirected their resources to the new Unified Benefit Program to improve program
- 8 -



impact.
Targeting. A more effective and efficient targeting system is required. Means testing criteria and
procedures differ for the various programs despite the fact that many programs target the same general
populations. Social workers make home visits to certify eligibility for some programs, but the criteria used
are not uniformly applied. Guidance counselors and principals certify eligibility for school based welfare
programs. Eligibility criteria may similarly not be uniformly applied by school personnel. The World Bank
funded assessment of the Social Safety Net noted that Jamaica's income transfer and education based
programs perforn only moderately well in comparison to other countries and that it should be possible to
improve targeting. Preliminary work with the Survey of Living Conditions data has produced a scoring
formula with low errors of exclusion (type I, around 10 percent) and even lower leakage (type II errors,
around 3 percent). This scoring formula will be used to target the new unified benefit and other social
transfers (see annex 15).
High administrative costs. Duplication and proliferation of SSN programs in Jamaica has lead to
unnecessary overlap and expenditures on administrative costs. Additionally, the Poor Relief Program has
extremely high administrative overheads (up to 50%), firther limiting services provided.
H. Strategic choices
The following strategic choices have been made in the design of the Social Safety Net operation:
1. Institutional Reform
A strategic choice was made to strive for a new institutional framework to implement the new transfer
program. Up-scaling existing programs is not a feasible option for the reasons mentioned above
(duplication, high overhead costs and poor management and implementation capacity with some of the
existing agencies in the field). In order to provide more effective and efficient service, reduce fragmentation
and duplication and lower the cost to benefit ratio, the Food and Kerosene Stamp, Poor Relief and
Economic Support Programs will be consolidated in the Unified Benefit Program of the MLSS.
2. Conditional benefits
A strategic choice was made to eliminate the current unconditional, supply based income support programs,
and to replace them by a new system of conditional, demand based transfers. The aim is to use the benefit
system to build human capital, improve health care and increase empowerment of the poor. To ensure that
the benefits go to children who most need them, it is expected that major education and health based
transfers including school lunches as well as school and exam fees will be targeted through the unified
beneficiary targeting system. Receipt of social assistance benefits will be linked to school attendance and
health clinic check ups. As a result, incentives associated with school based programs will encourage
children and youth to stay in school and to attend school regularly. Incentives to receive health check-ups
will encourage families to utilize health care services on time. Provision of integrated welfare and casework
services will foster human capital development among children who are poor. Improved identification of
children in need, provision of relevant health and education services, parenting education, and linking of
welfare benefits to school attendance and health check-ups are an important part of the reform strategy that
will transform social assistance expenditures into investments in human capital development.
3. Targeted to the very poor
A strategic choice was made that the reformed safety net programs were to be distinctly pro-poor. This will
be achieved by designing and tailoring programs to specifically address risks and conditions associated with
poverty and vulnerability and by developing and using an appropriate targeting mechanism. A proxy
-9-



means-tested system will be used to identify beneficiaries for all programs targeted to the poor, including
income transfer programs, school feeding programs, school fee assistance programs, school welfare
programs, grants for tertiary education, fee waivers at public hospitals, and other programs. The system
will apply uniform and objective criteria, screening instruments and procedures for approval so that people
in all parts of the country are measured with the same standard and criteria. The household will be the
main unit of intervention under the new system. The poverty and eligibility status of the household will be
determined by a scoring fornula. Under the Unified Benefit Program, this system would be applied to all
beneficiaries.
4. Size of Transfers
The Government of Jamnaica faced a strategic choice on the level of the conditional transfer to be provided.
The Cabinet considered its overall available fiscal envelope, and has approved the following amounts for
the unified benefit, which would not be differentiated among beneficiaries:
CY 2002      J $ 250
CY 2003      J $ 375
CY 2004      J $ 500
These amounts have some reference to poverty standards. The ending level for the benefit, approximately
US$9 per beneficiary per month, is close to 30 percent of the World Bank's absolute poverty line of US$1
per person per day. The starting level for the benefit, approxirnately US$6 per month, compares to what
households in 1999 spent monthly per person on average on education, US$7, and on health care and
medicines, US$4.50.
Spending on secondary school fees was higher, ranging from US$16 per month in Kingston to US$9 per
month in rural areas. The possibility of setting the conditional transfer for secondary school students
higher than that of primary students, which would reflect the higher cost of older children in terms of
clothing, school materials, books etc., was discussed with the GOJ at appraisal. It was decided that it
would be more advantageous to have a higher number of children covered under the program than to have
higher benefits for some (older) children. Therefore, the possibility of differentiating the level of benefits
was ruled out at this point.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
(1) Child Assistance Grants component. The first component (US$ 4 7 . 8 7 million) will fnance
conditional grants for poor children age 0-17 eligible under the program (see table 1). These grants will
finance direct costs to keep poor children in school and healthy. The receipt of benefits will be conditioned
on regular health clinic visits for children age 0-6 not enrolled in school, as well as on school attendance for
children age 6-17 (see details on conditions in Annex 2). Eligible and registered beneficiaries will receive
the grants for as long as they comply with the agreed requirements. The benefit will be paid to the family
representative which in general would be the mother; in case the mother is not available, the person taking
care of the child would be determined as the family representative. Payments will be made bimonthly with
health and educational conditionality compliance checked at least three times a year. Based on the
Government's decision to phase increases, the average monthly benefit per person will be J$250 (approx.
US$6) in the first year, J$375 (approx. US$7.5) in the second, and J$500 (approx. US$9) during and after
the third year of program implementation.
- 10-



Table 1: Projected number of children receiving transfers
Beneficiaries of Child Assistance Transfers
Children 0-6 (not enrolled in school),        53,300
for health clinic visits;
Children 6-11, for primary school attendance  55,600
Children 12-14, for lower secondary school    27,400
attendance
Children 15-17, for upper secondary school    23,700
attendance
Total                                        160,000
(2) Social Assistance grants to Adults component. The second component (US$ 16 . 94 million) will
finance conditional grants to poor pregnant/lactating mothers, elderly poor over 65, poor disabled and
destitute adults under 65 eligible under the program. The receipt of benefits will be conditioned on regular
health clinic visits for the adult beneficiaries. This component will be financed entirely with Borrower's
counterpart funds as expressed in the project's cost table (see below). The average monthly benefit per
person will be the same as for the child assistance transfer and increase accordingly over time.
Table 2: Projected number of adults receiving transfer
Beneficiaries of Adult Assistance Transfers   __
Pregnant and lactating women                    9,000
Elderly poor over 65                          26,700
Poor disabled                                 15,300
Adults under 65 poorest                        6,000
Total                                         57,000
The selection of grant beneficiaries and the verification of compliance with requirements of their receipt
will be done in accordance with procedures and criteria described in the Operations Manual.
(3) Institutional strengthening component. The third component (US$ 11. 92 million) will strengthen
the institutional capacity of the MILSS and others involved to operate a streamlined and efficient social
safety net in Jamaica. To this end, it will provide support for:
*   Targeting mechanism and enrollnent. (US$ 1. 3 9 million). The bulk of this component will be spent
on the enrollment mechanism, including the necessary information technology equipment and software,
and to cover the cost of temporary employees hired for data processing of applications. Additionally,
this component includes a small amount of technical assistance on the scoring formula. A preliminary
scoring formula based on data of the Survey of Living Conditions has been developed for the targeting
mechanism. However, during the early years of program implementation, the scoring formula will
require periodic review and refinement. The project will provide for local and intemational consultants
and technical assistance for periodic review of the targeting mechanism.
*   Information System (US$ 1. 2 8 million). Appropriate infornation technology (hardware/software)
will be introduced to support efficient management of the program. The envisioned system will require
- 11 -



computer workstations in the parish offices, the ministry offices and in the Computer Services
Department. Appropriate training in handling the system will be ensured.
* Training and Promotion (US$ 3 .01 million). This will help to strengthen technical, administrative
(e.g. procurement and financial management), and social work capacity in the MLSS to implement the
new Unified Program. MLSS staff directly involved in the management and implementation of the
Program, and beneficiaries will receive training to ensure that they fully understand their role,
requirements and procedures defined for the new program. Education and health staff will be trained in
the rationale, requirements and procedures of program implementation. In addition, a public
information campaign will be carried out aimed at creating awareness of the Social Safety Net reform,
among the general public, potential beneficiaries, and other stakeholders (staff in the agencies
involved), focusing on the advantages expected from the unified benefit program. The campaign is
expected to last approximately 6-9 months. Activities will be carried out through television, radio, and
print media (newspapers as well as posters, brochures, billboards, etc.).
*   Project Management (US$ 5 . 58 million), to finance the design and implementation of the Unified
Benefit Program. This includes financing of incremental professional staff (at MLSS central office and
13 parish offices), vehicles, and administration cost of the Implementation Unit. The component costs
furthermore include service fees, estimated to be US$ 1. 61 million or 2 . 5% of the total amount of
transfers, charged by financial institutions in Jamaica to deliver the transfers to poor families.
*   Monitoring & Evaluation System (US$ 0. 66  million) to measure the outcomes and impact of the
program. This will include a baseline survey, regular beneficiary consultations, periodic operational
audits, an MIS system as well as an extenal evaluation of program outcomes (for details, see annex 1).
Indicative             Bank-       % of
:Coponent                   Sector         Costs      % of    financing    8ank-
__________________________ _ :( US$M)             Total      PUS$M)    financing
I.Child Assistance grants           Social Assistance    50.67      65.4      28.73      71.8
2. Adult Assistance grants          Social Assistance   14.14       18.2       0.00        0.0
3. Institutional strengthening      Institutional       11.92       15.4      10.50      26.2
Development
- Unallocated -                                          0.37        0.5       0.37        0.9
Total Project Costs                   77.10       99.5      39.60       99.0
Front-end fee                     0.40        0.5       0.40        1.0
Total Financing Required                     77.50      100.0      40.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
This project seeks to support the Government of Jamaica in implementing the proposed SSN reform. Based
on preparatory analytical work on the existing social safety net, the following decisions and concrete steps
were undertaken by GOJ:
* On October 31, 2000, Cabinet decided to unify the three transfer programs (for description of
programs, see annex 11) into a Unified Benefit Program (UBP) under the MLSS, link benefits to
behavioral change where possible, and introduce a targeting mechanism that would be adopted by the
main safety net programs;
- 12-



*   On February 24, 2001, Cabinet decided on the categories of beneficiaries eligible under the UBP and
on the level of benefits;
*   In early April, 2001, Parliament approved an incremental allocation of J$69 million (approximately
US$1.5 million) for the UBP in the FY 2001/02 budget.
With these decisions, the GOJ has shown its readiness to move ahead with implementing the proposed SSN
reform, and concretely has paved the way to introduce the new Unified Benefit Program and a universal
targeting mechanism, to be supported by the project. In addition, GOJ has decided to undertake evaluations
of other safety net programs such as the school feeding, school assistance, Lift Up Jamaica programs to
identify strengths and shortcommgs and introduce improvements. This initiative will be supported by the
social safety net loan of the IDB.
In October 2000, Government decided to consolidate the existing income transfer programs into the UBP
under the leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. As a first step in the consolidation
process, the Ministry of Local Government and Commnunity Development has agreed to delegate the
payment of Outdoor Poor Relief benefits to the MLSS. Furthermore, Government has commissioned a
study to a management consulting firm that will determine the optimal institutional arrangements for the
"core" (e.g. transfer programs) and "non-core" (in-house care and other social work) social assistance
programs. This study will include reconmmendations on required changes in the legal and institutional
framework of the social assistance system. Cabinet Office in the Office of the Prime Minister is leading this
broad process due to its implications for public sector management. Further details are described in the
Policy Letter (Annex 16).
During project implementation, the following reform steps will be supported:
*   Identification and implementation of the institutional arrangements that need to be made to unify the
existing transfer programs now being merged under the UBP;
*   Identification of the institutional arrangements for "non-core SSN services" (including indoor poor
relief, rehabilitation grants, compassionate grants and some casework services);
*   Linking the targeting mechanism to other social safety net programs (school feeding, generic drug
programs etc).
Other elements of the SSN reform, as outlined in the Policy Letter (Annex 16), will be addressed through
the Bank's policy dialogue on Social Protection issues. This dialogue will be continued in coordination with
the IDB and other involved donors during the implementation of the project.
3. Benefits and target population:
Overall, approximately 17 percent of the Jamaican population is poor. The UBP will focus on these poor
within certain categories (children aged 0-17, pregnant and lactating women, elderly over 65 years and
older, persons with disabilities and destitute adults). The child assistance grants target poor children age
0-17 (160,000 beneficiaries) who comply with preset conditions (school attendance, "well-baby visits").
The adult assistance grants target poor adults that are not able to help themselves due to physical or mental
limitations. The receipt of adult assistance grants is conditioned on regular, bi-annual health clinic visits.
The project would generate the following benefits: (i) raise the health status and immunization rate among
children age 0-6, and (ii) increase school attendance and learning outcomes among poor school age children
6-17. In the long term, these improvements are expected to have a direct impact on poverty rates among
the beneficiary population by contributing to raising beneficiary children's human capital earnings
capacity.
- 13 -



In addition, GOJ contributions will target grants to poor pregnant and lactating mothers to protect the
unborn and new born child and the mother from birth related insufficiencies, to poor elderly, persons with
disabilities and other poor persons. The receipt of grants for adults is conditioned on regular, bi-annual
health clinic visits which will particularly improve preventive health care for the recipients. In all cases,
beneficiaries must be members of families categorized as poor and they must comply with the respective
conditions. Benefits will be paid out in cash. The benefit level will be the same for all beneficiaries,
regardless of age, sex, or depth of poverty.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
a) Institutional Arrangements
The Ministry of the Labour and Social Security (MLSS) has been tasked with general responsibility for
social welfare in Jamaica. The MLSS will be the executing agency for the UBP. The Director of the Social
Protection and Development (SPAD) Division in the MLSS will be responsible for ensuring that program
implementation proceeds according to project objectives and design (see organizational chart in annex 14).
They will be responsible for ensuring that the activities of the UBP are fully integrated into the permanent
operation of the MLSS, and implemented according to the terms and agreed timetable, including the
appropriate synchronization of pilot activities and other complementary changes resulting from the study on
Institutional Arrangements for the Welfare System in Jamaica. Financial Management, Management
Information System, Procurement and Public Relations and Education functions within the MLSS will
support program implementation. In the context of the Unified Program/Project, the MLSS will liaise
closely with:
v   Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ). The development of the scoring formula for the targeting
mechanism of the UBP will be housed in the PIOJ, because it will eventually be used for targeting of
other welfare programs. The MLSS will interface with PIOJ to review and refine the formula as
needed. The PIOJ will also be responsible for advancing the social safety net reform program.
* Office of the Prime Minister (OPM). The OPM will be responsible for ensuring that lessons learned
from the UBP, especially as they relate to other GOJ welfare programs, are brought to the Human
Resources Council of Cabinet. The OPM will be responsible for institutional reform as outlined in the
Policy Letter (Annex 16).
* Ministry of Education. Youth and Culture and Ministry of Health. The conditional transfer program
will require close coordination with the Ministries of Education and Health to obtain the information
necessary to validate school attendance and health system checkups. Both Health and Education
Ministries welcomed the decision to link transfers to behavior and have cooperated in the elaboration of
procedures to link school and clinic attendance to the receipt of benefits (see annex 2). The MLSS has
signed inter-institutional agreements with both ministries on respective responsibilities and procedures.
* Civil society. Conmnunity groups and NGOs may identify potential beneficiaries and refer them to the
UBP. Civil society groups will also participate in the appeals process (see also paragraph on Appeals
Committee below).
Adequate coordination of these important actors during project implementation will be ensured through the
Project's Steering Committee which is chaired by the MLSS.
- 14 -



b) Implementation Arrangements
Ministry of Labour and Social Securitv central level. lmplementation of the Unified Benefit Program will
be carried out by the Social Protection and Development (SPAD) Division within the MLSS, which is a
permanent division within the MLSS, not a temporary project unit. This approach was chosen to ensure
institutional sustainability of this important program. The proposed structure rests on two principles: (a)
small dynamic division composed of experienced and high-quality staff; and (b) technical, administrative
and management functions kept within the division to facilitate program implementation and take timely
management actions. The SPAD division will include the following core staff:
Director/ Project Manager
*     Program Coordinator
*      Information and Training Coordinator
*     Monitoring and Evaluation Officer
*      Senior Social Worker
*      Financial Management Specialist
Procurement Officer
*      Administrative Staff
Clerical Staff
Responsibilities of the SPAD division are described in annex 13. The organizational chart of the MLSS
including the SPAD is shown in annex 14. Management and staff would be strengthened by technical
assistance. Specific training and other resources will be provided by the project as needed.
Parish Offices. The MLSS has 13 local (parish) offices throughout the country. Each Parish Office is
headed by a Parish Manager and staffed by two administrators (one for Welfare Services and one for
National Insurance), social work and clerical staff (on average 12 persons). The project will strengthen the
technical, administrative and social work capacity at the Parish Office staff in order to implement the
program at this level. Parish Managers will report to the Director of Social Security and will be responsible
for ensuring program irnplementation at this level.
Program design. The Governnent of Jamaica has presented a draft program design which was jointly
reviewed during appraisal. Based on the program design, a draft Operational Manual (OM) for the UBP
has been developed. A final version, satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness.
Program testing and exMansion. The program will be implemented in stages. Implementation starts in
January 2002 with an initial pilot phase, estimated to last about 8 months, in St Catherine. This parish was
selected for the pilot phase because it was felt that it was typical for the island's poverty characteristics, it
includes rural and urban areas and because of its capable and motivated management team at the parish
office. The pilot is intended to generate the experience, capacity, and information necessary to make
adjustments on the project design and expansion plan and will be accompanied by a process evaluation (see
annex 1). The pilot will be used to test, inter alia, the operational procedures, the scoring formula, and the
functioning of the appeals mechanism. Based on the experience of the initial phase the program will be
expanded to the other parishes. The MLSS plans to expand the program to all 13 parishes during 2002.
Case Management. A system for case management was designed in collaboration with social workers from
the three existing income support programs. The components of case management include intake,
assessment, enrollment, monitoring of behavioral outcomes, re-certification, referral to other agencies in
cases of special need (for exarnple, Child Guidance Clinics, Children's Services, Family Court) and
- 15 -



graduation/termination. Record keeping is an integral part of case management and the MIS will be central
to effective case management. The project will provide training for improving the qualification of social
workers in accordance with the training needs assessment canied out during project preparation.
Appeals mechanism. An appeal process will be established to address the concerns of beneficiaries and
civil society who are (i) dissatisfied with termination from the program, (ii) concerned about exclusion of
needy person, and (iii) concerned about inclusion of persons who are not needy. To this end, a Local
Committee of Social Welfare will be established at the parish level with members selected from relevant
stakeholders, such as Conmnunity Health Aides, Guidance Counsellors or Teachers, Ministers of Religion,
Parish Councillors, representatives from NGOs, and community representatives. Workshops would be held
to educate and train committee members. The Committee will meet regularly as required at the outset of the
program and then once monthly when the program is fully functional. Limnits on the number of additional
households added to the program will be devised centrally, with local decision making for prioritization of
new households. Further details of this mechanism are described in the Operational Manual.
Annual Reviews. An annual review will be conducted at the end of each project year. The purpose of the
reviews would be to examine the impact of welfare policies and the progress of program/project
implementation at the local and national level, and to suggest refinements for program implementation as
needed. The MLSS will be responsible for ensuring that a broad cross section of representatives from the
public sector, academia and civil society are invited. The Bank will participate as much as possible in the
annual review process.
c) Financial Management Arrangements
The flow of funds from the Bank to the UBP and from the UBP to the beneficiaries, financial management
arrangements for the project, the results of the FM assessment carried out by the Bank, and the Action Plan
to be completed prior to loan effectiveness, are detailed in Annex 6.
Payment method. Five possible modes of payment have been analyzed: food stamps, cash transfers,
cheques, banks/automated credit transfers, and vouchers. According to this assessment, the least cost
option and the one offering most convenience to the recipients is the use of direct transfers either using the
banking system combined with debit cards or utilizing a bill payment company such as Paymaster or
Telepost. The bill payment companies are fairly new and are in the process of expanding their coverage on
the island. The MLSS is presently carrying out a detailed analysis of the different service providers. The
Terms of Reference for the selection of the pay agency, satisfactory to the Bank, have been developed. The
selection of a Payment Agency will go through a bidding process. The option/agency chosen will be
dependent on who can meet the requirements of the UBP at the most efficient cost.
Financial Management. Project financial management will be carried out within the Finance and Accounts
unit of MLSS. A financial management specialist has been recruited to have primary responsibility for
project financial management, and will report to the Ministry's Principal Finance Officer while also having
functional responsibilities to the Director of the SPAD division.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project alternatives considered include different approaches to reform of the social safety net and the
provision of assistance to the poor. Experience under other projects financed by both the Bank and the IDB
- 16-



was taken into account in designing the new income transfer mechanism, as well as the existing capacity in
the institution that would be responsible for project implementation.
Maintaining three transfer programs but increasing the value of transfers. Based on the Social Safety
Net Assessment, this alternative was judged to be unacceptable. The current unreformed safety net is a
jumble of programs, many of which are not targeted to the poorest, and administration is spread across
several ministries. Merely increasing the Poor Relief and Food Stamp payments without requiring
behavioral change among recipients (such as keeping children in school) perpetuates a system of handouts
that fosters a culture of dependency and does not ensure adequate human capital investment.
Reforming other SSN programs. The school lunch program in Jamaica is relatively costly, does not
cover many poor households, and is not well-targeted to the poor. Intemational experience indicates that
school lunch has little impact on school performance since it is served too late in the day to combat fatigue,
inattention or short-term memory loss from short-term hunger. The cost of school lunches are high
compared with the average per student cost of education and with other forms of incentives for school
attendance. Direct income transfers linked to school attendance have proven to be more cost-effective and
simpler to administer. Under a separate project, the IDB has agreed to evaluate the existing school feeding
program and has offered Technical Assistance (TA) to reform the program as part of the SSN reform.
Furthermore, the IDB is considering offering TA also for reforming the drug for the elderly programs
administered by the Ministry of Health.
Focusing on Youth at Risk as a major concern of Government and society. In the consultation process
with Govenmuent, academia and civil society, all parties expressed their serious concerns about young
people in Jamaica. A recent Youth at Risk study conducted by the Bank revealed how urgent action is
needed on this matter. The proposed project will only focus on youth at risk insofar as the income transfer
covers the age cohort 6-17 that stay in school ("in school youth at risk"). However, it does not cover youth
that have dropped out of school and are not employed. The IDB is considering a project to address 'out of
school' youth at risk, under a separate operation, which is expected to start next fiscal year.
Strengthening the SSN through the Jamaica Social Investment Fund. The Jamaican Social Investment
Fund (JSIF) has performed satisfactorily as a project, although has not matured and reached the scope and
intensity of other Social Investment Funds (SIFs) in the region. In addition, SIFs can only have a limited
impact on the poorest as they focus on improving access to basic infrastructure services. Considering the
nature of the activities under the proposed project, the JSIF is not well-suited to deliver income transfers
directly.
Public works. In 1999, Jamaica started an 18-month public works program, Lift-Up Jamnaica. This
program has not yet been evaluated, however public works by definition exclude key vulnerable groups of
the poor, particularly children and the elderly. Income transfers paid out directly to elderly, disabled and to
the mother would more accurately target these vulnerable groups and deliver income support more directly.
- 17 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
1                    1      ~~~~~~~atest Supervision
Sector Issue                          Project                    (PSR)ARatings
_________________ :__._._:_:_  (Bank-financed  projects only)
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                          Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Lack of adequate social and economic  Jamaica Social Investment             S               S
infrastructure & services             Fund Project
Inadequate quality of secondary       Jamaica Reform of Secondary           S               S
education                             Education Project
Tax admninistration and govemance     Jamaica Public Sector                 S               S
weaknesses                            Modernization Project
Other development agencies
Insufficient social policy coordination   DFID Social Policy Project
Primary education inadequate          IDB Primary Education
Projects I & II
Health system insufficient             IDB Health Project
Urban violence                        IDB Citizens Security and
Justice Project
Deficient educational quality         USAID, Primary education
assistance projects
High teenage pregnancy rates          USAID, Health and family
planning
Lack of adequate social and economic  IDB, CDB and EU, Social
infrastructure & services              Investment Fund
Deficient Social Safety Net           IDB, Social Safety Net
Program
Social conflict and inappropriate justice CIDA, Social Conflict and
system                                 Legal Reform
I____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ __   _ ____ ____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___   ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ ____   j   _ __I_ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The lessons leamed and incorporated into project design were drawn from experience with similar projects
financed by the Bank in Latin America and other regions. This experience demonstrates that successful
projects in providing incentives for human capital investment will include the following key elements: (a) a
targeting mechanism that will identify the poorest; (b) a management information system to monitor
program pay-out and eligibility status; (c) linkage of benefit receipt to changed behavior; (d) consultation
with beneficiaries and local civil society (see annex 12).
Similar programs in the region have had positive results. The PROGRESA program in Mexico has been
determrined to have a positive impact on school enrollment, promotion and attendance rates. A preliminary
evaluation found that the overall lower-secondary education enrollment rate increased by 4.9 percent, but
for PROGRESA households, this rate increased by 19 percent. Brazil has a school stipend program (Bolsa
Escola) that also had these positive results, while in Honduras, the Beca program demonstrated a primary
school enrollment rate increase of 12 percent in participating areas, as opposed to an annual increase of 3
- 18 -



percent. School performance improved by nearly 12 percent and repetition rates declined by an average of
3 percent.
PROGRESA was also found to have significant positive health impacts in Mexico, where utilization of
public health clinics for preventive care increased by 60 percent among PROGRESA families. These
preventive visits enabled the PROGRESA beneficiaries to reduce the number of inpatient hospitalizations
by more than half among children and adults, suggesting that PROGRESA lowered the incidence of severe
illness. At the same time, there was no reduction in the utilization of private providers, indicating that the
increased utilization at public clinics did not substitute public care for private care. Finally, PROGRESA
children had a 14 percent lower incidence of illness and adults had a 12 percent reduction in the number of
days unable to perform daily activities due to illness.
In a recent World Bank survey about Targeted Conditional Transfer Programs (TCT Programs) in several
Latin American countries, preliminary evidence suggests that the programns have been reasonably
successful in targeting, though some aspects need attention. Evidence from Brazil and Mexico on program
targeting (based on comparisons of beneficiary and control populations) suggests that these programs
target well. Leakage rates (i.e., the non-deserving benefiting from the program) have been low. However,
under-coverage rates (the deserving populations that are missed by the program) have been high. In
decentralized programs such as Bolsa Escola, this is partly due to a lack of finances; some municipalities
have had to ration coverage within the qualifying group to the poorest. The Jamaican program therefore
wishes to target the very poor, i.e. approximately the poorest 15 percent of the population, to guarantee
adequate financing.
On the other hand, surveys show that excessively stringent criteria for selection of families can lead to
exclusion of the needy. In Brasilia for example, because some of the programs explicitly focus on poor
families with children in school age, poor families with only pre-school and adolescent children are
excluded. The Jamaican program will use a scoring formula that is based on a targeting mechanism to
identify persons with the lowest consumption level. In this way an effort is made to prevent unintended
exclusion of some groups.
Another important conclusion from the study is that perhaps the biggest hindrance to the successful
implementation and growth of decentralized programs is their fiscal affordabilitv. Not only are some of the
programs in other countries implemented at the municipal level, but their financing also has to come from
local sources. This has created a particularly perverse problem in that the poorest municipalities are the
ones that need these programs the most (since they have a high incidence of poverty) but are unable to
afford them (since they also have low local revenues). The problem is avoided in the Jamaican program as
it will be financed from the national government's general revenues by reallocation of funds from other,
inefficient safety net programs or from the social expenditure budget.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In 1998, the Government of Jamaica asked the Bank to provide support in assessing the existing social
safety net (SSN) in Jamaica and advise on how to improve efficiency and effectiveness of the safety net.
Based on this request, Government and the Bank agreed on the following process in order to prepare a SSN
reform proposal built on national consensus:
1. A comprehensive package of analytical work was agreed upon by the PIOJ and the World Bank that
included an assessment of the Social Safety Net programs, a Social Sector Expenditure review, a
Labour Market Study, a study on the present pension system of Jamaica as well as a study on the
- 19 -



profile of the poor and the effect of macroeconomic shocks on the poor.
2. A Jamaican Task Force was appointed to develop a reform proposal with concrete suggestions for S SN
reform.
3. A series of workshops and stakeholder consultations were held with government agencies, academia,
donors and civil society to discuss the results of the studies and sharpen the focus of the reform
proposal.
4. Based on the discussions and studies, a social safety net policy matrix was presented by the PIOJ to the
Human Resource Council (HRC). The HRC approved the basic directions of the SSN reform proposal.
5. On October 30, 2000, Cabinet approved the SSN reform proposal and the National Action Program.
6. On February 24, 2001, Cabinet decided on the level of benefit, eligible beneficiaries and other issues
related to the introduction of the Unified Benefit Program.
7. In April 2001, the Ministry of Finance presented the budget for FY 2001/02 which included an initial
allocation for the UBP of J$69 million.
Based on this process, the World Bank and the IDB began preparation of their respective operations to
support the safety net reform.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
This project is part of an overarching reform plan for the social safety net in Jamaica. The World Bank's
value added consists of:
* Transferring the experience from similar projects (Mexico, Honduras, Colombia, Brazil, Armenia,
Russia) in project design and implementation;
*   Technical Assistance (through Japanese Grant funding) on the content and process of the SSN reform
and its implementation;
*  Technical assistance on the targeting mechanism and scoring formula;
*   Monitoring and Evaluation and necessary adjustments in the delivery mechanism;
*   Coordination with other donors (particularly IDB, DFID, EU and CIDA).
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$406 million; ERR = 16 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Preliminary results suggest that the benefit from providing conditional cash transfers can be substantial.
Three scenarios were calculated. In terms of the education grant, the analysis shows that Option 1 (
236,000 beneficiaries with a cap or limit of three children per household) has a Net Present Value of $406
million at a discount rate of 10 percent and an intemal rate of return of 16 percent. This option was based
on information about the number of the poorest in the mentioned vulnerable groups. Option 2 (272,000
beneficiaries) has a net present value of $2.027 billion and an internal rate of return of 35 percent. With
Option 2, the incremental expenditure is 5.8 percent more than Option 1, while Option 2 would benefit 15.3
percent more children than Option 1. Option 2 has more beneficiaries because it does not include a cap on
the number of beneficiaries per household as does Option 1. Option 1 was favored by the Government of
Jamaica because of its lower overall cost. Assumptions were made about the number of children that
- 20 -



would likely fail to comply with the conditions, so the final figure of the GOJ is about 217,000
beneficiaries.
It should be noted that there are several benefits to the project which were not quantified in the cost benefit
analysis. In particular, it was not possible to estimate the benefits accruing to the health portion of the
program, due to a lack of data. Additionally, there are important social benefits expected from the program
such as reduced violence and youth-at-risk by keeping children in school, and better social cohesion. These
important benefits, while beyond the scope of the cost benefit analysis, would help demonstrate the viability
of the program if they could be included.
Efficiency gains of consolidating the existing transfer program into one Unified Program can not be
estimated at this time. However, the in-depth study on the present and future institutional arrangements
mentioned in E 4. below will give some indication of these gains.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 406 million; FRR = 16 % (see Annex 4)
Financial Management Assessment. Ministry of Labour and Social Security will be responsible for
maintaining project financial management arrangements acceptable to the Bank. In accordance with Bank's
policy OP/BP 10.02, the LCR Financial Management Unit (LCOAA) reviewed MLSS' financial
management arrangements relating to the project. The review focused on the assessment of the internal
control, planning, budgeting, accounting, and financial reporting system, and audit arrangements. The
review concluded that the MLSS has well-established financial procedures for the Ministry's existing
programs, particularly the Food Aid (food stamp) program, which most closely mirrors the design of the
proposed project. However, the cash or quasi-cash nature of the program, the fact that improved
monitoring is a key part of the program, and the need to ensure that certain Bank requirements are met, all
necessitate that actions be taken prior to loan effectiveness to enhance the Ministry's financial management
capacity. These actions, as well as key aspects of the project financial management arrangements, are
explained in more detail in Annex 6.
Annexes 4 and 5 detail the cost-benefit analysis conducted for the program and the financial summary.
Fiscal Impact:
It is expected that at the end of the project, GOJ will be in a position to finance the entire UBP with its own
resources. The IBRD loan will help finance the Program during the transition process. Over the 4 year
implementation period, the Unified Benefit Program including the new targeting mechanism, M&E system
etc. requires GOJ counterpart funding of approximately US$37.5 million. The counterpart resources would
stem from (i) the unification of the existing programs, (ii) the re-allocation of other social safety net
programs that will either be scaled down or terminated, and in the long term (iii) reduction in debt servicing
costs, an increase in revenue inflows as a result of improved administration and collection strategies, and an
increase in long term growth of GDP. GOJ has already started this process, which is the core of the SSN
reform, in its budget for the Jamaican FY 2001/02. One of the objectives of this exercise is to ensure that
the program does not increase the fiscal burden of Jamaica.
The GOJ and the WB will finance a constant share of the child assistance grants, but the Bank will finance
a declining share of the institutional strenghthening component (see table below).
-21 -



Figures are In LIS$    Jaalcan FY200  r)  Jamaican FY2003M    Jarriaican FY20D405    Jarnlci FY200596  Total
1.0* Assi,ce TasWer    739,565   493D43  7,870,474  5246,933  9,619,468  6,412,979  10,493,965  6,995,977  28,723472  19,148,982
2. SauftAssistanze Transer  .  436,043  .    4,640,382   .   5,671 ,578       6187176         196,91,78
3 ImlituIion~ SrESering    3,801,561   409544  3677203   518,012  1,401,889   236278  1i621,447   263,006  1Q502,100  1,415,839
1Aoed                                           -        -             374,430    -    374,430     -
rt-d Fe              4D0,000400,60                                                     40906      -
TOTAL               4,941,12  1,33,630  11,547,67  10,405,76  11 ,02i,357 1Z319,634  12,489,843  i3,436,15,8  40,000,002  37,499,998
T'Ndes ( Irdde 2rd wneer dr Jaicn FY2001ll2 (Ocbe 2001-al   3 2002)
3. Technical:
The Goverunent of Jamaica has presented a draft operational manual for the program. It includes chapters
on eligible beneficiaries, the program cycle from registration to payments, as well as procurement
arrangements and mechanism for the flow of funds from the Bank to the program and from the program to
the beneficiaries. The final version of the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of
effectiveness.
The new targeting mechanism based on a proxy means test is a key element of the project. In coordination
with the PIOJ and the IDB, the Bank has developed a scoring forrnula from the Jamaican Survey of Living
Conditions (SLC) data base (see annex 15). The scoring formula will be used to rank all the households in
the SLC database from lowest score to highest score, and the sample will be "blown up" (expanded) by
using statistical sampling weights to generate a distribution of the possible beneficiaries. The overall
budget envelope for transfers under the UBP agreed between the Bank and the GOJ will be divided by the
benefit levels established by Cabinet to set the desired number of beneficiaries. A cut-offpoint will be set
to correspond to a target 20 percent lower than the desired number of beneficiaries, to leave scope for cases
brought to the attention of the appeals committees and to allow for unexpected contingencies. To the extent
that the scoring formula is a good fit (which is the case, as leakage errors are less than 3 percent), there
should be no problem with more applicants qualifying for the benefit than there are funds available, but in
any case the 20 percent margin should be sufficient to ensure this.
Careful monitoring during the application stage of how many applicants qualify is necessary to make sure
that costs do not over-run the available funds. If during the pilot phase, such an over-run should appear
likely, a new lower cut-off point will be established for reducing eligibility. Careful monitoring is also
necessary to improve the scoring formula. The scoring formula will be revised based on the initial
experience in the field during the pilot phase. The proposed project will continue to provide technical
assistance to refine the targeting mechanism for the safety net programs in Jamaica. The World Bank will
work closely with the GOJ to provide the necessary technical expertise on setting the cut-off point and
imnproving the scoring formnula.
In addition, Technical Assistance will be provided to facilitate the institutional changes needed to
consolidate the existing programs.
- 22 -



4. Institutional:
The Government of Jamaica as part of the Medium Term Economic and Social Policy Framework, is
committed to reform Jamaica's safety net to improve targeting for the poor, relevance and effectiveness of
welfare, and related programs and efficiency in the delivery of services. The proposed reform will involve,
primarily, the Ministries of Labour and Social Security, Local Government and Community Development,
Health, and Education. During project preparation, an institutional assessment was carried out to identify
pending issues related to the consolidation of the existing transfer programs. Based on this assessment,
under the leadership of the Office of the Prime Minister, a Management Consulting firm has been
contracted to determine the institutional arrangements to deliver the welfare benefits to the needy, and to
make recommendations on the most effective and efficient manner to deliver social assistance, including an
analysis of the legal implications of the proposed safety net reform. The study will include an action plan
and a time table to implement the proposed changes.
As part of the implementation strategy of the SSN reform, the government has decided to establish a
Unified Benefit Program, under the MLSS, to replace three existing income transfer programs. The MLSS
has had a long standing experience in the implementation of similar programs (for example Food Stamp
Program), and is currently adjusting its institutional structure and management arrangements, to implement
the new program. A management study will be undertaken during the first year of implementation of the
UBP to develop the optimal organizational structure for program implementation. The management study
will assess administrative, policy and planning capacity of the MLSS and identify required adjustments to
strengthen service delivery. The organizational structure in the MLSS will be adjusted in accordance with
the results of this management study.
At the Bank's request, the Government of Jamaica, through the Attomey General's office, provided a legal
opinion stating that there are no legal impediments to giving recipients a single cash payment under the
three existing transfer programs.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Ministry of Labour and Social Security (MLSS) and its 13 parish offices at the local level (see annex 14),
which are equipped and motivated to initiate the program.
4.2 Project management:
Overall responsibility for project management lies with the Director of the Social Protection and
Development (SPAD) division supported by the Financial Management and MIS Divisions within the
MLSS, for program financial and procurement matters respectively.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Only a small percentage of the loan would be used for procurement of goods and services. Nevertheless, a
procurement capacity assessment was carried out during project preparation. According to the assessment,
the MLSS is not yet well enough equipped to carry out project procurement activities but, based on this
assessment, the Government agreed on a plan of actions to strengthen its implementation capacity and has
already taken important actions, namely: (i) selected personnel with adequate capacity to carry out
procurement activities, and (ii) prepared a draft Procurement Manual. The Bank will ensure that (i) training
on Bank procurement methods and procedures is provided, and (ii) technical assistance is provided for
major procurement activities (informnation technology, contract with consulting firms etc.). In addition,
regular procurement reviews will be carried out as outlined in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
During project preparation, the Bank finalized its Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) of
- 23 -



Jamaica. This assessment, which concluded that the country's financial management framework was
generally sound, was taken into consideration when designing the FM arrangements for the project. Based
on the CFAA findings, and in response to Borrower's desires, an effort was made to utilize existing
government financial management mechanisms whenever such mechanisms would not require significant
strengthening during the project's life. For example, it has been decided by GOJ and accepted by the Bank
that the Auditor General will carry out the annual financial audits of the program.
Project financial management in Jamaica has been generally adequate, and has seen improvements in recent
years. Compliance with audit covenants has sometimes not been achieved (reports being received in some
cases many months after the deadline), and disbursement applications have sometimes not been sent on a
regular and/or timely basis. These risks will be mitigated by significant efforts to establish and build FM
capacity prior to the launching of the project. Still, regular (twice annual) financial management reviews
by Bank staff are considered necessary until such time as the project has established a good record of
financial/disbursements reporting.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
None
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not applicable
Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
One of the major challenges to Jamaica's social development is the low level of social cohesiveness. This is
manifested by the high level of violence in the inner-city, which has reached crisis proportions. In these
neighborhoods, children are sometimes prevented from going to school by ongoing gun battles between
rival gangs, and virtually everyone has a close relative or friend who has died a violent death. Poverty and
exclusion are among the main causes of violence. Dropping out of school is often how the vicious circle
starts. Drop-out boys will quickly reject the few options they might have for low-paying jobs and turn
instead to fast and easy ways to make money through illegal means (mainly the sale of drugs). Drop-out
girls will soon find themselves pregnant, but without the psychological or material means to take care of
their offspring. The next generation will then grow up in a climate marked by violence, emotional
instability and material deprivation. In inner-city neighborhoods there is a deep feeling of alienation from
the Government. Within this context, finding ways to promote social inclusion is crucial, as inclusion is
-24 -



one of the building blocks for reduced violence and greater social cohesiveness.
The most significant social development outcomes of the program will be: (a) a more equitable and
transparent system of delivering social care services, and (b) positive behavioral changes among the
extremely poor. Both outcomes, in turn, should result in greater inclusion for the poor, and therefore in
reduced poverty and vulnerability. In particular, poor children's opportunity for human capital
development should be greatly increased as the conditional transfer system will facilitate their access to
educational and health services while promoting a more positive and proactive attitude in their parents. The
ongoing participatory process envisaged by the program throughout implementation (see section below)
will not only help make the program more responsive to its clients' needs, but also encourage their
involvement in the definition of policies and interventions that affect their lives, ultimately resulting in their
empowerment. The equitability and transparency openly sought by the program should also inspire greater
trust in the government, thus contributing to develop social capital. Overall, the proposed reform should
play an important role in strengthening social cohesion, a most important social development outcome for a
society threatened by high levels of violence and social fragmentation.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Government. Consensus has been built at the working level of the Govemment through a series of working
group meetings conducted with a professional facilitator. An Inter-Agency Steering Committee comprised
of GOJ senior technical staff was constituted to outline a policy matrix for the broader reform of the social
safety net. Social workers from the programs to be merged have participated in meetings to inform the
design of the new program. The Govenmuent's public information campaign will include community
meetings and meetings with NGOs.
Beneficiaries. In order to design the new program as closely to the needs of the poor as possible, a
beneficiary consultation process was carried out during project preparation. Potential beneficiaries were
interviewed about their perceptions with regard to (i) the means to identify the poor and the poorest (this
was taken up to define the criteria used in the scoring formula), (ii) the strengths and weaknesses of the
existing social assistance programs, and (iii) recommendations for specific design features of the new UBP
such as payment method, level of benefits, and frequency of payments (Annex 12 summarizes the answers
given by beneficiaries and stakeholders). The design of the UBP is based on the results of this consultation
process. In addition, the program design includes an appeals process whereby complaints can be registered
and individuals can ask for their case to be reconsidered.
Civil society organizations. See 6.3 below.
General public. With support from the Bank, the Govermment is presently designing a vigorous public
infornation campaign to explain the new system's rationale to the public, stakeholders and beneficiaries.
The importance of linking the benefit to behavioral change to promote human capital development among
children who are poor and of targeting programs only to those who are most needy should illustrate to the
public the significant advantages that will be incurred for the country as a whole.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Once the SSN reforn proposal was drafted, Govemment conducted a series of workshops with civil society
in Kingston and throughout the country to discuss the proposal with these important stakeholders. The
representatives of civil society welcomed the SSN reform proposal enthusiastically and urged the
- 25 -



Government to implement the suggested changes. Government plans to continue this process and intensify
it as the social safety net reform evolves. The project will provide the means to support this process.
In particular, it is proposed that the new institutional structure for the UBP include a Local Committee for
Social Welfare to monitor and assess the local impact of welfare policies. This Local Committee should be
a vehicle for local NGOs, churches and other civil society organizations to discuss the impact of the
various programs on the needs and aspirations of the local community (see section C4 b on Appeals
Mechanism). The Committee, one in each parish, should be able to raise issues and concerns to the national
level.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Given that the aim of the project is measured in terms of social development outcomes, the institutional
arrangements to accomplish the project objectives - as presented in Section 4, above and in annex 13 -
describe clearly how the project would ensure attainment of social development outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Because the program outcomes are social development outcomes, the M&E system of the program, which
is described in Annex 1, will pay special attention to the monitoring of social development outcomes. In
particular, regular beneficiary consultations and the appeal mechanism envisaged will make it possible to
assess client satisfaction and whether the program is succeeding in fostering a greater integration of the
very poor into mainstreamn society. The project MIS will provide quantitative data to complement this
information.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes * No
-Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
n/a
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of this project has to be analyzed from various angles: (i) financial sustainability; (ii)
sustainability of behavioral changes; and (iii) sustainability of institutional strengthening.
(i) The proposed project is intended to protect the human capital of the poor. During the four-year project
- 26 -



period, the World Bank will finance approximately one-half of the costs of the safety net reform program,
which includes not only the new benefits, but also the institutional strengthening and development. Already
during the project years, the Government will have to increase the budget allocations to the UBP. These
allocations are expected to be provided inter alia through reallocation of funds from other, less effective or
efficient SSN programs. The contributions of the Government and World Bank are shown in the table on
fiscal impact in Section E.2.
Furthermore, the IDB is planning to support the implementation of the SSN reform through a sector loan
conditional to the successful introduction of the UBP, which would provide additional funds to the
Government of Jamaica. The total amount of counterpart funding necessary during project implementation
is US$ 37.5 million.
After project completion, the Government will take on the full responsibility for financing the transfers. It is
expected that by then, growth rates would recover and debt service would decrease due to the financial
sector reform supported by IDB, CDB, EU and World Bank. Therefore, additional funding should be
available to cover the full cost of the new income transfer program.
In 1998, the Government of Jamaica spent J$616 million (US$15.4 million) on the three income transfer
programs combined. By the third year of the UBP, it is envisioned to cover 217,000 beneficiaries with a
monthly benefit level of US$9. To sustain the program, Jamaica would need to spend about US $8 million
more on the unified benefit program than was paid out in 1998. This amount should be re-allocated from
less targeted or efficient SSN programs.
(ii) Experience with cash benefits linked to school attendance indicates that behavioral changes encouraged
through participation in the program will continue even if the transfer is discontinued, as children will have
formed the habit of attending. Furthermore, successful implementation of the proposed project would
provide Jamaica with a suitable mechanism to provide the needed assistance to the poor that could be
scaled up or down, depending on economic conditions.
(iii) The project includes a significant component of institutional development to implement the safety net
reform, including consolidation of cash transfer programs, the establishment of a targeting mechanism, and
the establishment of a management informnation system and a monitoring and evaluation system. This
significant increase in capacity of Jamaica's social safety net will continue beyond the life of the project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Education and health services are not      N         Inter-Institutional agreements between MLSS
adequate to meet increased demand,                   and Ministries of Education and Health about
access becomes more difficult.                       responsibilities and services to be provided to
UBP beneficiaries. Continuous donor support to
improve access to and quality of primary and
secondary education (see section D.2)
Government commitment to irnplement the    M         Clear agreements on responsibilities and
social safety net reforms weakens due to             counterpart funding. Maintain a participatory
change in priorities.                                process throughout project implementation.
Commitment as expressed in Policy Letter
(Annex 16).
- 27 -



Fiscal situation does not allow for an      S        Provisions for flexibility in loan agreement.
increase in level of benefits as planned.
Consolidation of programs is hampered by   M         Public information campaign. Provisions in
employees and/or unions.                             project implementation to encourage change.
Gradual introduction of necessary changes
based on thorough institutional analysis.
Displacement of current beneficiaries not  M         Public information campaign; appeals
elegible under the UBP mobilize                      mechanism.
opposition to the new program.
From Components to Outputs
Level of transfers proves insufficient to  M         Constant monitoring of compliance with
stimulate desired behaviors.                         conditions; regular beneficiary consultations;
linking UBP to other safety net programs
Implementation of UBP is delayed.           S        Technical Assistance is included in the project
to support a quick and efficient implementation
process.
Technical expertise, organizational         S        Technical assistance included in the project
structure and management capacity are                strengthens institutional capacity of MLSS. Key
not conducive to effective program                   staff is hired in consultation with Bank.
implementation.                                      Management study carried out during first year
of program implementation.
Grants do not reach eligible beneficiaries  S        Regular review of cut-off line for targeting
due to limitation of scoring formula,                mechanism will prevent overdemand or
ineffeciencies and/or delays.                        underutilization. Training for social workers to
adequately employ targeting mechanism.
Periodic operational audits and consequent
adjustments of system.
Selected payment agency does not deliver    S        Evaluation of experience with payment agency
transfers adequately.                                after pilot phase. Safeguards in contract with
payment agencies.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Not applicable
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Adoption of an Operations Manual for the Unified Benefit Program, including financial management
and procurement arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank.
- 28 -



*   Appointment of the financial auditors, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
*   Establishment of a financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Condition of Disbursement
Prior to the presentation of each withdrawal request of Loan proceeds for grants, the borrower shall
furnish to the Bank evidence to the effect that independent operational auditors have audited the list of
eligible poor children and the list of eligible Family Representatives.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
OI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[]1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
2 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
IL1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Andrea Vermehren                   avier E. Coll                          Kalantzoqulos
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 29 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
JAMAICA: Social Safety Net Project
Hierarchyo Obj o c:v Indit                           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Protecting the Poor and    *  Percentage of          Survey of Living Conditions   *  The economy does not
Ensuring Inclusion            Govemment spending on annual report                  decline
safety net (2.6% of GDP)                          *  The Government remains
*  Decrease in number of                                committed to a poverty
poor below poverty line                              reduction strategy
*  Poor can be targeted
effectively
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Support the Govemment of   Increase in health care   Ministry of Health reports,    Quality of education and
Jamaica's efforts to reform its utilization by very poor  extemal project evaluation    health services does not
social safety net in order to   children 0-6                                    decline, access remains
provide better and more    Increase in complete, on time                        adequate
cost-effective social assistance immunization rates for very
to the extreme poor       poor children 0-6                                     MOEYC and MOH comply
with inter-institutional
agreements
Increase in school attendance  Ministry of Education reports, Widespread support and
by poor children and youth   extemal project evaluation    political commitment to
(85% of the time)                                    reform continue
Ministry of Education reports,
Increase in enrollment rates   extemal project evaluation
for upper secondary schools
Percentage of overall SSN  Annual Govemment budget   Government re-allocates
expenditure channeled                                sufficient funds from other
through the UBP                                      SSN programs to UBP
Beneficiary satisfaction with  Reports from beneficiary  Level of benefits are increased
new program               consultations              as planned
Percentage of eligible poor not Survey of Living Conditions
receiving grant
- 30 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Ob1ectives          Indicators          Monitori  & Evaluation    Critical Assumpbons
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Eligible children have  Number of children receiving  Program MIS              Transfers are big enough to
regularly received grants.    the transfers regularly every                      provide an incentive for
two months (estimated target:                         families to comply with
160,000)                                              conditions for transfers
2. Eligible adults have    Number of adults receiving   Program MIS              Fiscal situation allows
regularly received grants.    transfers regularly every two                      sufficient budget to satisfy
months (estimated target:                             demand for transfers to
57,000)                                               eligible beneficiaries
3. Targeting mechanism is    Percentage of program    Program MIS, program yearly UBP division posseses needed
operational and UBP works   beneficiaries below the   evaluations                expertise and promptly seeks
efficiently                poverty line (target > 30%),                          assistance when needed
and UBP administrative costs
do not exceed 15% by Year 3.
-31 -



Hieacy * Oclv                    Indkatora          Monitorin  * Ev lato        C _ tia Asw      :'; -
Project Components    I  Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Child Assistance Grants    USS 47.87  million*   Quarterly progress reports,    *  Beneficiaries willing and
component:                                           program MIS                   able to comply with
* health (0-6 year olds), not                                                     requirements.
enrolled in school;                                                         * The grants would actually
* education (6-17 year                                                            reach eligible
olds)                                                                          beneficiaries with little
leakage, inefficiencies
and/or delay.
*  The adopted scoring
formula provides an
adequate targeting
mechanism.
2. Social Assistance grants to  USS  16. 94 million*  Quarterly progress reports,    * The grant distribution/
Adults component                                     program MIS                   payment mechanism
functions well.
* The outreach campaign
reaches beneficiaries
effectively.
*  There is capacity to
establish an adequate
MIS.
*  Appeals mechanism
functions effectively.
3. Institutional strengthening  USS  11.92  millions  Quarterly progress reports,    * MLSS remains in charge
component:                                           program MIS                   of implementing the
* Targeting & Enrollment                                                          UBP.
* Information system                                                           *  Organizational structure
* Training and promotion                                                          of MLSS conducive to
* Project Management                                                              effective program
*  M&E system                                                                     implementation.
* Low overturn of
personnel.
* The amounts do not add up to USS 77.5 million because Unallocated and Front-end Fee is not taken into account in
the matrix.
-32 -



Monitoring and Evaluation System
A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system will be implemented to assess the Program's success in
achieving the desired outcomes. The M&E system will produce the indicators specified in the logical
framework through the implementation of five principal components: (i) a process evaluation of the initial
phase of the Unified Benefit Program; (ii) a management information system (MIS); (iii) a beneficiary
consultation and appeal committee; (iv) operational audits; and (v) an extemal evaluation. In addition to
these, there will be annual financial audits.
Process Evaluation of the Initial Phase. The initial phase being carried out in the Parish of St. Catherine
will be evaluated through a process evaluation in order to make recommendations conceming needed
adjustments to the program design. The process evaluation will include a consideration of each of the
Program's components, with particular attention to: (a) the targeting mechanisms (especially the
functioning of the scoring fornula); (b) program cycle arrangements - division of labor between local
offices and central administration; (c) linkages with Ministries of Health and Education; and (d) functioning
of the appeals mechanism.
Management Information System. A networked management information system (MIS) will be
developed to track the Program's physical and financial progress during implementation. The MIS will
collect data to monitor poverty targeting, compliance with grant eligibility criteria, the timely delivery of
grants, administrative efficiency, financial flows etc. In order to allow for future expansions or
modifications of the program, the MIS will be developed with a modular approach, using a relational
database.
Beneficiary Consultation and Appeals Committee. Regular consultation with beneficiaries on service
delivery, targeting and procedures will form an integral part of the M&E system. This system will have
two components -- (i) Appeal Committees will be conformed by local officials and members of civil society
at the parish level to channel complaints, suggestions, and assessments from beneficiaries to program
administrators. A system will be established to ensure that key elements from the Appeals Committees will
be fed into the Program's MIS; (ii) Beneficiary Consultations will be carried out as part of the Extemal
Impact Evaluation with a sub-sample of beneficiaries selected from the survey.
Operational audits. Reviews of Program operations will be conducted on a sample basis by an extemal
firm every four months. These will be used to validate the accuracy of data being collected for the Program,
regarding eligibility of beneficiaries and their compliance with conditions for benefits and the efficiency of
the Program's operational systems. These extemal reviews will serve as a cross-check for the monitoring
data collected through the Program's MIS.
External Evaluation. An external evaluation will be conducted to assess whether the goals of the Program
are being met, particularly with respect to children's health and education outcomes. The evaluation will be
based primarily on the use of household surveys to assess the Program's targeting and outcome, using as a
reference the measures listed in the Logframe. The evaluation will harmonize its data collection efforts with
the existing system of household surveys and the estabhshed poverty measures in Jamaica in order to
evaluate the Program's success in poverty targeting, and to support and improve upon the existing system
of household surveys. As mentioned above, the evaluation will also include a qualitative assessment of the
program in a sample of beneficiaries to complement the findings produced by the household survey data.
Two committees will support the quality of the M&E system, ensure its relevance in providing inputs for
policy decisions in Jamaica, and build M&E capacity. First, a Technical Committee established in the
- 33 -



MLSS will work directly with the staff contracted for the various components of the M&E system and with
the PIOJ to ensure the relevant and timely production of needed information and its relevance to overall
policy decisions. In addition, the Program Steering Committee consisting of high level representatives of
relevant ministries, academics and representatives from civil society will liaise with the Technical
Committee to guide, inter alia, the implementation of the program, including the design, analysis and use of
the M&E system, and, in particular, the extemal evaluation.
- 34 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
JAMAICA: Social Safety Net Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$47.87 million
Child Assistance Grants. This component would finance conditional Health and Education grants for poor
children age 0-17 eligible under the program. These grants will finance direct costs to keep poor children in
school and healthy, they will not finance lost opportunity costs.
*   Education Grants. Receipt of educational grants would be conditioned on school attendance of poor
children 6-17 enrolled in school. A child must attend 85 percent of sessions to remain eligible for
benefits. Eligible and registered beneficiaries would receive the grants for as long as they comply with
the agreed requirements. The benefit would be paid to the family representative which in general would
be the mother; in case the mother is not available, the person taking care of the child would be assigned
as the family representative. At the beginning of each school year, the Ministry of Education, Youth
and Culture (MOEYC) will report to the MLSS on the number of sessions in each of the three terms in
that school year. The family representative will be responsible for ensuring that compliance forns are
brought to the schools for completion. Principals will be responsible for completing compliance forms.
The family representatives will deliver the compliance forms to the MLSS during the designated
delivery period. Furthermore, the family representative will be responsible for reporting changes of
school to the old school and to MLSS to ensure that benefits are not terminated. The reporting schedule
is once per school term (three times per year). The Regional Community Relations Officer will liaise
with the MLSS parish office and assist with community relations as they relate to the education
requirements of the Unified Benefit Program. It is envisaged that officials from the schools will have
input into any appeal of termination of benefits.
*   Health Grants. Receipt of health grants would be conditioned on health clinic visits for children 0-6
(not enrolled in school) in accordance with an established plan. The Health Center Nurse will establish
a clinic visit schedule for each beneficiary child with the number of required visits dependent on the age
of the child (see details in table below). If a visit is missed, the appointment must be rescheduled for
within 30 working days of the missed appointrnent. If not, the household will be marked as
non-compliant. The family representative will report to the MLSS on whether or not a child was
brought for a scheduled visit. Health Center Nurses will be responsible for certifying attendance and
affixing a sticker to the compliance forns. The Public Health Nurse in charge of the health center will
be responsible for ensuring that nurses sign and affix stickers to compliance forms. The famnily
representative (in principle the mother, see above) will ensure that compliance forms are completed at
each visit and will be responsible for keeping the compliance forms between visits. Furthermore, the
famnily representative is responsible for delivering the compliance forms to the MLSS during the
designated submission period. The reporting schedule will be every four months (three times per year)
with dates to synchronize with reporting dates for Education Grants. The Parish Health Managers will
liaise with the MLSS parish office and assist with community relations as they relate to the health
requirements of the Unified Benefit Program.
- 35 -



Required Number Of Health
Beneficiary               Required Care                       Visits
group
Birth to ll   Immunization (BCG x 1; OPV x 3; DPT x
months      3; MMR); Nutritional Screening, Health              5
Education for Household Head
12 to 23    Booster; Nutritional Screening, Health
months      Education for Household Head                        2
24 to 35    Booster; Nutritional Screening, Health
months      Education for Household Head                        2
36 to 47    Booster; Nutritional Screening, Health
months      Education for Household Head                        2
48 to 59     Booster; Nutritional Screening, Health
months       Education for Household Head                       2
In both Education and Health Grants, the average monthly benefit per child would be US$6 in the first
year, US$7.5 in the second, and US$9 during and after the third year of program implementation, the
gradual increase has been established for budgetary reasons. It is assumed that starting in April 1, 2004
(fourth year), the level of benefit will retain its real value. In case of higher than presently expected
inflation, the benefit level would be adjusted accordingly. The education benefit basically covers the out of
pocket expenditures of families for children going to school. The health grant would enable and motivate
beneficiary mothers of 0-6 year old children to give them the nutrition and health care they need during this
critical period of growth and development.
Signed inter-institutional agreements between MLSS, MOEYC and MOH on the responsibilities and
procedures will ensure adequate supply response for the beneficiaries. It will not be necessary to report on
immunizations and care provided as the MOH has agreed through this accord to provide all required care
(immunization, nutritional screening and health education) when the child is brought for the scheduled "
well-baby" visit. This component includes the direct costs charged by financial institutions in Jamaica to
deliver the grants to poor families.
Project Component 2 - US$16.94 million
Social Assistance Grants for Adults. The second component will finance conditional grants to especially
vulnerable groups of poor adults, including pregnant and lactating mothers, elderly over 65, and disabled
and destitute adults under 65 eligible under the program. The grants will be conditioned on regular health
clinic visits (see details in table below). This component will be financed entirely with Borrowers
counterpart funds. It will ensure that the program is able to reach out to all poor persons belonging to the
poorest quintile, and therefore increase coverage of social assistance - one important objective of the
program. In addition, it will support the GOYs efforts to provide appropriate pre- and postnatal care to
poor women and general health care to poor adults eligible under the program. The estimated number of
benefiting adults under this component (50,700) is considerably lower than for the children (165,900). In
general, the beneficiary will be the person receiving the benefit directly. In case the beneficiary is not able
to receive the benefit, a representative would be assigned. The average monthly benefit per adult would be
- 36 -



US$6 in the first year and increase over time as for the child assistance transfer. The selection of
beeficiaries and the verification of compliance with conditions will be done through the program's targeting
mechanism and in accordance with procedures and criteria established in the Operations Manual. This
component also includes the direct costs charged by financial institutions to deliver the grants.
Beneficiary group              Required Care        Required Number Of Health Visits
Pregnant                      Prenatal care and immunizations, 4 visits (or pro rata depending on
nutritional screening         when in the pregnancy the woman
applies for benefits)
Lactating                     Postnatal care, health/parenting   At 6 weeks and between 3 to 4
education                    months post delivery
Elderly over 65, disabled, destitute Regular health check-ups,  2 visits per year
under 65                      counseling
Project Component 3 - US$ 11.92 million
Institutional strengthening component. This component will strengthen the institutional capacity of the
MLSS to operate a streamlined and efficient social safety net in Jamaica. To this end, it will provide
support for
*   Targeting mechanism and Enrollment (US$ 1.39 million). The bulk of this component will be
spent on the enrollment mechanism, including the necessary information technology equipment and
software, and to cover the cost of temporary employees hired for data processing of applications.
Additionally, this component includes a small amount of technical assistance on the scoring formula. A
preliminary scoring formula based on data of the Survey of Living Conditions has been developed for
the targeting mechanism. However, during the early years of program inplementation, the scoring
formula will require periodic review and refinement. The project will provide for local and
international consultants and technical assistance for periodic review of the targeting mechanism.
-   Information System (US$ 1.28 million). Appropriate infornation technology (hardware/software)
will be introduced to support efficient management of the program. The envisioned system will require
computer workstations in the parish offices, the MLSS offices and in the Computer Services
Department. Approximately 90 workstations, 50 printers and 30 laptops will be required for the users
and developers to implement the program. These costs will be covered by IBRD. There are four
categories of training that will be necessary for implementing the Unified Benefit Program.:
1. Introduction to Computers for Users for new users of the computer equipment who have little or no
experience working with computers.
2. Unified Benefits System Training for Users to learn about the Unified Benefit software system for the
employees of the parish offices and of the ministry headquarters who will be working with the
applications software.
3. User Technical Support Training to cover the system support functions that will be necessary in each
parish office and in the ministry user offices.
4. Advanced Technical Training for some of the employees in the Computer Services Department to learn
advanced computer technology.
* Training and Promotion (US$ 3 . 01 million), to strengthen technical, administrative (e.g.
- 37 -



procurement and financial management), and social work capacity in the MLSS to implement the new
Unified Benefit Program. MLSS staff directly involved in the management and implementation of the
Program, education and health staff and beneficiaries will receive training to ensure that they fully
understand their role, requirements and procedures defined for the new program. Other stakeholders
(for example members of appeals committees) will be trained in the rationale, requirements and
procedures of program implementation. In addition, a public information campaign will be carried out
aimed at creating awareness of the Social Safety Net refonn, among the general public, potential
beneficiaries, and stakeholders, focusing on the advantages expected from the UBP. The campaign is
expected to last approximately 6-9 months. Activities will be carried out through television, radio, and
print media (newspapers as well as posters, brochures, billboards, etc.). A consultant is presently
designing the campaign which will also include the costing for the proposed activities. A consulting
firm will be hired to carry out these activities during project implementation. The campaign will be
integrated in the MLSS's overall public education programme.
* Project Management (US$ 5. 5 8 million), to finance the design and implementation of the Unified
Benefit Program. This includes financing of incremental professional staff (at MNLSS central office and
13 parish offices), vehicles, and administration cost of the Implementation Unit. The program will be
administered by the SPAD division and the 13 parish offices of the MLSS. A management study will
be undertaken during year 1 of program implementation. The purpose of the management study is to
assess the administrative, policy and planning capacity of the MISS and to identify required changes
to strengthen service delivery. The UBP personnel working for this program will initially consist of 39
staff, including a director and six office managers including for planning and evaluation, information
systems, operations, procurement, financial management and training. Each of the 13 parish offices
will be staffed with approximately 12 persons (total of 156 staff), depending on the parish
characteristics (number of beneficiaries, accessibility etc.). This will include one parish office manager
and approximately 6 professionals (inter alia, social workers). Additional staff needed to initiate the
program (approximately one third of the technical and administrative staff) would be financed under
the loan. It is expected that by the end of 2003, contract officers would be decreased to about 30 at
central levels and 9 each at the parish level, with the effect that toward the end of the project, IBRD
funding for this item can be reduced significantly.
In addition, this item includes Technical Assistance to strengthen the MLSS implementation capacity,
particularly in the areas of procurement and financial management. Furthermore, administrative costs
for office supplies, office equipment (copiers, faxes etc.), and vehicles will be covered.
*   M&E system (US$ 0. 66 million) to measure the outcomes and impact of the program. This will
include beneficiary consultations, regular operational audits (three per year), an MIS system as well as
a baseline survey and an evaluation of program outcomes (for details, see annex 1). Additionally, the
intemal auditors of the MILSS as well as management will carry out regular supervision of compliance
with program procedures as described in the Operational Manual. Financial provisions under the
programn are made for external audits, the development of the MIS system, the beneficiary
consultations, the baseline survey and the final evaluation.
- 38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
JAMAICA: Social Safety Net Project
Local        Foreign         Total
Project Cost by Component          US$ million    US$ million    US$ million
Child Assistance Transfer                       47.87                        47.87
Health Grants                                  16.69                        16.69
Education Grants                               31.18                        31.18
Adult Assistance Transfer                       16.94              -          16.94
Pregnancy Grants                                2.80           -             2.80
Poverty Grants                                  1.24           -             1.24
Elderly Grants                                  8.18           -             8.18
Disability Grants                               4.71           -             4.71
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                      7.88          4.04           11.92
Project Management                              5.02          0.55           5.58
Targeting & Enrollment Costs                    0.77          0.63           1.39
Information System                              0.26          1.02           1.28
Training & Promotion                            1.50          1.50           3.01
Monitoring and Evaluation                       0.33          0.33           0.66
Total Baseline Cost                             72.69          4.04           76.73
Physical Contingencies                           0.09          0.09            0.19
Price contingencies                              0.09          0.09           0.19
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              72.87          4.23           77.10
Front-end fee                                     -            0.40           0.40
Total Financing Required                        72.87          4.63           77.50
Local        Foreign         Total
Project Cost by Category          US$ million    US$ million    US$ million
Goods                                            1.84          2.89            4.74
Grants                                          64.81           -            64.81
Services                                         6.03          1.15           7.18
Total Baseline Cost                             72.68          4.04           76.73
Physical Contingencies                           0.09          0.09            0.19
Price contingencies                              0.09          0.09           0.19
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              72.87          4.23          77.10
Front-end fee                                     -            0.40           0.40
Total Financing Required                        72.87          4.63           77.50
- 39 -



Local        Foreign         Total
Project Cost by Category          US$ million    US$ million    U S$ million
Goods                                            1.84          2.89            4.74
- Vehicles and equipment                           -            0.52           0.52
- UBP materials                                   0.05          0.02           0.06
- Parish materials                                0.24          0.11           0.35
- Enrolment materials                             0.05          0.02           0.07
- Payment forms                                   0.31          0.15           0.46
- Training and promotion materials                0.48          0.31           0.80
- System information hardware & software           -            1.04           1.04
- Mobilization                                    0.72          0.72           1.43
Grants                                          64.81           -             64.81
Services                                         6.03           1.15           7.18
- UBP consultants                                 0.67           -             0.67
- Parish consultants                              1.89           -             1.89
- Monitoring and evaluation                       0.42          024            0.66
- System maintenance                              0.17          0.07           0.23
- Training senrices                               0.35          0.19           0.53
- Workshops                                       0.17          0.07           0.24
- Targeting                                       0.40          0.40           0.80
- Enrollment seNces                               0.35          0.18           0.53
- Financial Institution Transactions              1.61           -             1.61
Total Baseline Cost                             72.68          4.04           76.73
Physical Contingencies                           0.09          0.09            0.19
Price contingencies                              0.09          0.09            0.19
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              72.87          4.23           77.10
Front-end fee                                     -                    0.40    0.40
Total Financing Required                        72.87          4.63           77.50
NOTE: totals may not be exact due to rounding
- 40 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
JAMAICA: Social Safety Net Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
A cost benefit analysis was performed on three options presented to the Government. Option 1
provides benefits to 236,000 persons and places a ceiling on the number of beneficiaries per
household at a maximum of three children and four persons overall. This option is based on
information about the number of the poorest in Jamaica by type of vulnerability. Option 2
provides benefits for 272,000 persons and prescribes no ceiling per household, however, it
stipulates that only a portion of the benefits would be payable for children in excess of the
maximum of 3 children per household. Option 2 is the more expensive option, however, it also
targets more beneficiaries. Option 3 is based on a number of 217,000 beneficiaries, reflecting the
reality that if the Government targets 236,000 beneficiaries, a certain percentage of the eligible
will either fail to apply or a percentage of those who apply will fail to meet the conditions.
The benefits of the project are calculated from the incremental hourly wage earned from staying at
school longer based on the incremental income that a person can earn from staying in school for a
longer period of time. The incremental income per hour for completing each cycle was established
and this was divided by the total number of attendee days to obtain the incremental income per
hour per attendee day. This was calculated at 0.021985. The incremental income per year per
attendee day was calculated at 45.73. This provided an annual stream of benefits that was
discounted. These benefits were compared with the projected annual costs for the project to
determine the net present values and internal rates of return. The discount rate used is 10% and
this is the discount rate suggested by Dr. John Weiss of the University of Bradford who calculated
the national economic parameters for Jamaica.
The costs of the program are calculated as the number of beneficiaries for each option multiplied
by the benefits intended by the Government (J$250, 375 and 500 respectively for the first three
years of the program and J$500 for each subsequent year).
The results of the cost benefit analysis shows that Option 1 had a Net Present Value of $406
million at a discount rate of 10 percent and an internal rate of return of 16 percent. Option 2 had
a net present value of $2.027 billion and an internal rate of return of 35 percent. This is to be
expected since with Option 2, the incremental expenditure is 5.8 percent more than Option 1,
while Option 2 would benefit 15.3 percent more children than Option 1.
Lack of data on the health status of children and the link between improved health status and
earnings meant that the cost benefit analysis could only be done for the education-related benefits.
Actual benefits of the program would therefore be higher than those calculated here.
Main Assumptions:
The repetition rate and hence reduction of repetition days is assumed to represent a benefit to the
Government. The assumption is made that the enrollment rate will move from 92.6 percent to 96
-41 -



percent over a five year period, and the attendance rate will move from 75.1 percent to 78
percent. These figures have been conservatively assumed. The main assumption made is that
attendee days will increase as a result of implementing the project. For instance, in year 1, with
the implementation of the project, it is assumed that the enrollment rate will increase from 92.6
percent to 93.0 percent and the attendance rate will increase from 75.1 percent to 75.5 percent.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
A sensitivity analysis was performed on the three options by determining the extent to which costs
could be increased without making the project non-viable (zero net present value). In this analysis,
costs were increased without increasing the level or value of benefits. For Option 1, costs could be
increased by only 4.2 percent before the net present value became negative. On the other hand,
Option 2 showed that costs could be increased by 19.9 percent before the project became
non-viable.
-42 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
JAMAICA: Social Safety Net Project
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
(US$ million)          Year 1       Year 2     Year 3      Year 4
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs                3.01       18.37      21.35       21.34
Recurrent Costs                 2.87        3.59       1.99        4.59
Total Project Costs                5.88      21.95       23.34      25.93
Front-end Fee       0.40                          _  .
Total Financing                     6.28       21.95      23.34       25.93
Financing
IBRD                              4.94       11.55       11.02      12.49
Govemment                          1.34      10.41       12.32      13.44
User Fees/Beneficiaries             -          -           -          -
Others                     _            _          _           _
Total Project Financing             6.28       21.95      23.34       25.93
Time period spans October 2001 - September 2005. Numbers may not add exactly due to rounding
- 43 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
JAMAICA. Social Safety Net Project
Procurement
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised
January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in
September 1999 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the
estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the
use of each method are detailed in Table B.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under the Loan are estimnated to cost US$ 4. 48 million and would include:
vehicles, computer hardware, and office equipment. To the extent possible, contracts for these goods
will be grouped into bidding packages of more than US$150,000 equivalent and procured following
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued SBDs. Contracts with
estimated values below this threshold per contract and up to an aggregate amount of USS 2 .42
million may be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, using previously
agreed SBDs. Contracts with estimated value below US$25,000 and up to an aggregate amount of
US$ 0 .49 million may be procured using shopping (National /Intemational) procedures based on a
model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.
Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
The Procurement Officer under the Permanent Secretary of the MLSS will carry out procurement
activities in close coordination with the Principal Finance Director who will administer project funds.
An assessment of the capacity (PCA) of the MLSS to implement procurement actions for the project
was carried out and cleared by the Regional Procurement Advisor (RPA) on June 13, 2001.
The risks identified in the assessment include: (i) MLSS' lack of qualified procurement staff and of
institutional structure and experience in procurement; and (ii) lack of adequate procurement
procedures, as defined by Bank guidelines. The following plan to address these risks is included in the
PCA report and was agreed upon during appraisal: (i) MLSS to appoint a Procurement Officer with a
degree in Engineering or Business Administration and experience in competitive bidding processes
(done); (ii) MLSS to define its organization for project implementation, including procurement (done);
(iii) MLSS to formally approve and implement a procurement procedure manual, acceptable to the
Bank, to be used for project operations (draft manual done); (iv) MLSS to prepare an Operation
Manual that includes standards and procedures and documents the delegation of authority and
responsibility and guidelines and procedures for procurement record filing (in progress); (v) use of
Bank SBDs for the procurement of goods under ICB modality, Bank standard RFPs for the
- 44 -



procurement of consultant services, and standard, Bank approved, bidding documents for the
procurement of goods under NCB and Shopping modalities; and (vi) a training program for the
Procurement Officer in regards to specific Bank procurement guidelines and procedures.
Procurement Plan
The MLSS has submitted (as condition of negotiations) a Procurement Plan for project implementation
that provides the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). At June
15 and December 15 of each calendar year, the MLSS will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed
procurement schedule for the coming six months.
-45 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
______________   ____ProcurementMethod (*1)                               | _
Procurement Category             ICB               NCB             Other (*2)          NBF (*3)            Total
1. Goods                               1.56              2.42               0.49                               - 4.47
(1.33)            (2.06)             (0.42)                               (3.81)
2. Consultants(*4)                                         -                7.44                                  7.44
-  -            (6.69)                                (6.69)
3. No Procurement(*5)                                      -               48.25              16.94             65.19
-  -           (29.10)               -              (29.10)
4. Front-end Fee                                           -                0.40                                  0.40
........  .-                       (0.40)              -                (0.40)
Total                                  1.56               2.42             56.58              16.94             77.50
(1.33)            (2.06)            (36.61)              -               (40.00)
(*1) Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. All costs include contingencies
(*2) Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
(*3) Not Bank-financed
(*4) Details in Table Al
(*5) Child and Adult Assistance Grants
Selection of Consultants
Consulting services would be contracted in the following areas of expertise: development of software,
monitoring and evaluation, collection of field data, and training. The services to be procured under the
Loan are estimated to cost US $ 7 .44 million equivalent and would be procured using the Bank's
Standard Request for Proposals.
Finns
All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS, except for small and simple contracts
estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less that would be procured using CQ, up to an aggregate
amount of US$  0. 82  million equivalent.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison of
qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$  0. 5 0  rnillion.
- 46 -



Operational Costs: The Loan would not finance operational costs.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent, including contingencies)
Selection Methods
Type of Consultant        QCBS   l       BS          SFB          LCS           CQ         Other   _NBF              Total
1. Firms                      6.12                                                0.82                       .           6.94
(5.50)                                              (0.74)         -            -          (6.24)
2. Individuals                                                                                 0.50           -          0.50
... :   -         -                       (0.45)         -          (0.45)
Total                         6.12                                                0.82         0.50           -          7.44
(5.50)        -             -                       (0.74)       (0.45)         -          (6.69)
Note: Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. All costs include contingencies
QCBS: Quality and Cost Based Selection                CQ: Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
QBS: Quality Based Selection                      Other: Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of
SFB: Selection under a Fixed Budget                      Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
LCS: Least Cost Selection                           NBF: Not Bank-financed
-47 -



Prior review thresholds (Table 8)
The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment of the
MLSS and are summarized in Table B.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                 Contracs Sublct to
Threshld                Procurement         Pi ir Reiew  0
Expenditure Ctgory        (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods                         >150                     ICB                       All
<150                    NCB              First three contracts: bid
evaluation and technical
specifications
<25             National or International        None
____________________  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   .Shopping
3. Services
4. Consulting Firms              >100                    QCBS                       All
<100                     CQ                       None
5. Consulting           According to IDA Guide    Individual Consultants    All > $50,000 (TOR,
Individuals                                                                    contract, CV)
Nothing <$50,000
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
In addition to the prior review supervision, the capacity assessment of the MLSS suggests one full
supervision mission every twelve months to carry out a post review of procurement actions. Based on the
overall risk assessment (HIGH), the post-review analysis should cover a sample of not less than 10 percent
of the signed contracts.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 48 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of four years, and the loan is expected to close by
December 31, 2005. Disbursements would be made in accordance with the guidelines set out in the
Bank's Disbursement Handbook. Disbursements would be made against categories of expenditure
presented in Table C below.
Funds Flow from the World Bank to the Program (SOEs/PMRs). Disbursements will initially be
made via traditional Bank procedures, under which an agreed-upon advance is first made to the Special
Account, and subsequently this account is replenished via withdrawal applications supported by full
documentation or Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), as required (see below). During the first year of
the project, when disbursements are expected to be relatively low, the project will begin to produce
regular Project Management Reports (PMRs). Once these reports are being produced quarterly, a
decision can be made between the government and the Bank as to whether disbursements will be made
via PMRs rather than traditional disbursements. A transition to PMR-based disbursements would
allow the MLSS to place more of its energies into management reporting, instead of merely tracking
transactions. Additionally, under PMR-based disbursements the Bank would perrnit a larger amount to
be advanced to the Special Account than is allowed under traditional disbursements.
Retroactive Financing. Up to 10% of categories 1 and 2 of the loan amount would be eligible for
retroactive financing. Expenditures made between appraisal and loan effectiveness, for all disbursement
categories except Grants, would be eligible for retroactive financing.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ million equivalent)
Amount in
Disbursement Category       US$ million          Financing Percentage
1) Goods                                3.81  85%
2) Consultant Services and Audits       6.48  90%
3) Training                             0.22 90%
4) Grants                              28.72  75% of amounts disbursed to Family
Representatives of Eligible Children
Total Allocation for Project Costs     39.23
Unallocated                             0.37
Front-end Fee                           0.40
Total Amount of IBRD Financing         40.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under contracts
requiring prior review by the Bank, as indicated in Table B; and contracts whose value would be raised
above the prior review limits, as a result of amendments. Prior to the presentation of each withdrawal
request of Loan proceeds for grants, the borrower shall fumish to the Bank evidence to the effect that
independent operational auditors have audited the list of eligible poor children and the list of eligible
Family Representatives (condition of disbursement).
- 49 -



For all other expenditures, disbursements would be granted against SOEs for which supporting documents
would be maintained by MLSS, and be available to the Bank and external auditors for review.
Special account:
A special account will be established by the GOJ for the project, with an authorized allocation of up to $4
mnillion and an initial deposit of $1 million. Further details of the operation of the Special Account with
regard to project funds flow is discussed below.
Financial Manauement
Financial Management Assessment. The Bank carried out a Financial Management Assessment of the
project, which was followed up with a second visit, prior to appraisal. The results of the assessment, and
related agreements reached, are reflected in the following sections.
Funds Flow Mechanisms within the Program. The steps in the funds flow process are expected to be as
follows:
I . Three bank accounts would be set up in a commercial bank (preferably the same one): (i) a Special
Account, in US$, for loan proceeds; (ii) an Expenditure Clearing Account (ECA), where the total
arnount received via the warrant (budget) process would be deposited; and (iii) a Program Account, to
effect transfers to program beneficiaries.
2. The budget for the program would be approved annually in accordance with Jamaican law and
processes.
3. Funds would be released (made available) by the Accountant General on a monthly basis, in
accordance with the quarterly warrants issued by the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
4. Payments for all expenditures except those of the transfers will be made via the ECA. Approximately
monthly, a reimbursement will be effected from the Special Account to the government's Consolidated
Fund for any portion of the expenditures that are eligible for loan financing. Some expenditures - such
as those in foreign currencies, those financed 100% by the loan, or very large equipment purchases -
may also be made directly from the Special Account.
5. To effect the bimonthly cash transfers, a block transfer would first be made from the ECA to the
Program Account just prior to the date of payment to beneficiaries. Based on instructions from the
MLSS, the private payment agency would then effect the transfers from the Program Account to the
beneficiaries. The loan-eligible portion of transfers made would be calculated using the financial and
MIS systems of the program, and this amount would be transferred from the Special Account to the
government's Consolidated Fund only against lists certified by the Operational Auditors (as described
in the following paragraphs).
6. To ensure that Bank funds are used only to finance payments to eligible recipients, a firm will be
contracted to carry out periodic Operational Audits prior to replenishment of the Special Account.
These audits would, inter alia, focus on:
* the validity of application data;
* whether, based on this data, the recipients were eligible for benefits; and
* whether other key operational procedures in relation to the cash transfers (e.g. denial of benefits
when school attendance is below the threshold) are being followed.
- 50 -



Part of the Terms of Reference for the firm conducting the Operational Audits would be to estimate,
based on professional sampling techniques, the percentage of total amounts disbursed that had been
paid to ineligible beneficiaries. This percentage would be projected to the total population and
deducted from the amounts to be drawn by the project from the Special Account, thus facilitating the
smooth processing of the Bank's replenishment of this account.
7. Disbursement applications would be prepared to replenish the Special Account for any
payments/reimbursements made from it. They would be prepared by the Project Accountant/Financial
Manager and would require appropriate authorized signatures from officials in the MLSS and/or
Ministry of Finance.
Program Financial Management Personnel and Duties. It was agreed during project preparation
that it was not desirable to create a separate "project accounting unit" for this program. Instead, the
Project Accountant/Financial Manager will be placed in the Finance and Accounts unit of the MLSS,
reporting to the Principal Finance Officer, with perhaps a "dotted line" reporting responsibility to
project management. The work of the Project Financial Manager will be in many ways integrated with
that of the Finance and Accounts unit as a whole, but some project-specific resources, such as
guidelines, training and a personal computer, will need to be provided to this person. The person
selected will be a professional accountant, with good computer skills, and knowledge of the
govermment's Financial Management Information System (FMIS) and government accounting
practices. He/she will be given training, as needed, in Bank financial management requirements, as
well as technical assistance, as needed, in the use of any project-specific software and the creation of
financial reports. A sample Terms of Reference for the Project Financial Manager was provided to
the MLSS by the Bank, and a qualified person was assigned at appraisal.
Audit Arrangements. Project accounts will be audited annually by Jamaica's Auditor General, under
terms of reference to be approved by the Bank. Certified copies of the audit reports would be
furnished to the Bank no later than four months after the end of the fiscal year. The auditor for the
financial audits will be appointed prior to effectiveness under Terms of Reference acceptable to the
Bank.
In addition to the annual financial audit, Operational Audits, focussing on the eligibility of grant
recipients, will be carried out periodically. These are discussed in the "Funds Flow Mechanisms
within the Program" section above. A procurement process would be carried out in order to select a
firm with appropriate expertise to complete the Operational Audit in a timely and effective manner.
The Operational Audits will be performed and reported in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank. The costs of these audits will be financed under the "Consultants" category of
the loan. The respective audit reports would be provided to the financial auditor, so that they could be
considered as part of the annual financial audit. This would serve to streamline the financial audit
process with regard to the eligibility of disbursements made under the Unified Benefit Program.
Action Plan - Other Issues
In addition to the items discussed above, the following actions remained to be completed as of the
project appraisal date. Further details as to what they involve can be found in the initial FM
assessment of April, 2001:
- 51 -



Item                                        Completed By         Responsible Party
1. Agreement as to the project's
Chart of Accounts                           Negotiations         MLSS, Bank
(i) agreement as to format of quarterly
PMRs, with financial section in
accordance with agreed Chart of
Accounts                                    Effectiveness        MLSS, Bank
(ii) Incorporation of Chart of
Accounts into govt. budgetary
Framework and the FMIS                      Effectiveness        MLSS, MOF
2. Preparation of a financial manual
for the project*
(i) draft, submitted to the Bank            Negotiations         MLSS
(ii) finalized                              Effectiveness        MLSS, Bank
*The financial manual will form part of the larger Operational Manual
- 52 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
JAMAICA. Social Safety Not Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      18                           18
First Bank mission (identification)             11/27/2000                   11/27/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     06/18/2001                   06/18/2001
Negotiations                                    07/09/2001                   07/18/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/02/2002
Prepared by:
Planning Institute of Jamaica and Jamaica Ministry of Labour and Social Security with the assistance of
consultants funded by Japanese PHRD grants and Bank staff.
Preparation assistance:
Trust Fund: PHRD TF025979 and TF026843
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Andrea Vermehren                  Task Manager
Jeanine Braithwaite               Social Protection
Hideki Mon                        Social Protection
Christina Alquinta                Operational Support
Vladimir Jadrijevic               Procurement
Marcelo Osorio                    Procurement
Eduardo Brito                     Legal
Edward Daoud                      Disbursement
Daniel Boyce                      Financial Management
Karla McEvoy                      Environment
Ana-Maria Arriagada               Sector Manager
William Experton                  Sector Leader
Consultants
Sonja Harris
Lorraine Blank
Sylke Von Thadden
Carmen Hamann
Francisco Ayala
Susan Parker
Donna Edgerton
Henley Morgan
Howard Moo Young
Kristin Fox
- 53 -



Carole McDowell
Udo Kock
William Jack
Noel Jones
David Logan
Dillon Alleyne
- 54 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
JAMAICA: Social Safety Net Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Draft Operations Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Anderson, Dr. Patricia, Labor Market Study.
*   Blank, Lorraine. Draft Training Assessment, May 2001.
*   Blank, Lorraine. Jamaica: Social Safety Net Assessment, January 2001.
* Blank, Lorraine, Joerg Goldberg and William Jack. Jamaica: Social Sector Expenditure Review,
March 2000.
*   Blank, Lorraine. Preliminary Training Needs Assessment, June 2001.
* Blank, Lorraine. Youth at Risk in Jamaica Policy Note, November 2000.
* Boyce, Daniel. (FM Specialist, LCOAA). Financial Management Assessment, April and May 2001
* Handa, Ashu and Daniien King. Macroeconomic Policy and Poverty in Jamaica: An Evaluation of
Option, February 2000.
* Harris, Sonja. Report on Beneficiary Consultations on Social Safety Net Reform Programme, April
2001.
* Jones, A. Noel. Reform of Jamaica's Social Safety Net: Workshop Report-Government of
Jamaica/World Bank, July 2000.
* Jones, A. Noel. Social Safety Net in Jamaica: Workshop Report-Government of Jamaica/World
Bank, May 2000.
O Kock, Udo. Income Transfer Programs in Jamaica: Institutional Analysis of the Food Stamp
Program, Poor Relief and Economic and Social Assistance Programs, January 2001.
* Logan, David, Cost-Benefit Analysis of Income Transfer Program.
* Morgan, Henley and Noel Jones. GOJ/IBRD Reform of the Social Safety Net: Civil Society
Consultations, October 2000.
- Osorio, Marcelo, Procurement Capacity Assessment, April 2001.
C. Other
* Perez, Cecilia. Jamaica Social Safety Net Reform: Analysis of Budget Allocation and Execution
Procedures, May 2001.
*Including electronic files
- 55 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
JAMAICA: Social Safety Net Project
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Milions                                disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD          IDA                          Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P038700        1997 JM- STUDENT LOAN                                   28.50      0.00                             0.00       0.89       0.62      0.00
P007490        1997 JM PUB SCTR MODERNIZ                               28.40      0.00                             0.00      18.07      15.85      8.87
P039029        1997 JM- SOC. INVEST. FUNO                              20.00      0.00                             0.00       0.91      -0.59      0.91
P007485        1994 PRIVATE ENTERP INV &                               35.00      0.00                             0.00       4.92       4.92      0.00
Total:      111.90       0.00                            0.00       24.79      20.81       9.7,
- 56 -



JAMAICA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Cornpany                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1995               Jam Energy Prtnr               16.41    0.00    0.00    36.86   16.41    0.00      0.00   36.86
Total Portfolio:        16.41     0.00    0.00    36.86    16.410.00         0.00   36.86
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan.   Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 57 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
JAMAICA: Social Safety Net Project
Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              America   middle-
Jamaica   & Carib.   Income        Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                           2.6        509     2,094                   Life expectancy
GNP Per caoita tAtlas method, USS)                      2,530      3,840      1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                          6.6      1,955      2.513                        T
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                            0.8        1.6        1.1
Labor force (%1                                           1.5        2.5        1.2     GNP                                Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                   per                               p enrolment
Povertv I`% of pooulalion below national PovertV line)      .          ..         .
Urban DoDulation t% of total population)                   56         75        43
Lite expectancv at birth (vears)                           75         70        69
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                   21         31        33
Child malnutrition (16 of children under 5)                10          a         1S                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)          70         75        86
Itlliteracy(% of population a8q  15+)                      14         12         16
Gross primary enrollment (%of school'aoe Ppoulalion)      100        113       114           -Jamaica
Male                                                   100           .       114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                  99                   116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999      --
Economic ratios'
GOP (USS billions)                              2.4       4.1        7.1        7.2
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  19.2      28.5       29.0       29.6                      T
Exports of qoods and serviceslGDP              49.8      47.2       47.2       46.7                       rade
Gross domestic savinqslGDP                      18.4     19.0       21.0       20.3
Gross national savinoslGDP                     13.3      20.2       26.0       25.1
Current account balancelGDP                               -7.2       3.0       4 5       D1 _n\
Interest Davments/GDP                           4.4       4.2        2.4        3.0     Domestc    _I
Total debt/GDP                                  71,7    111.1       56.2       56.4
Total debt service/exports                     23.8      29.6       14.9       18.6
Present value of debt/GDP                         -                 53.5
Present value of debt/exports                                      106.0
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99       1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)                 ,
GOP                                    12       0.6      -0 S        D.0        12                 Jamaica
GNPPercapita                           0.6      0.5       0.0       -3.2        1.0     |          Lower-middle-income group
Exports of qoods and services          4.0       0.6     -3.2        0.2        2.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999     |Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(1% of GDP)                                                                              10
Aariculture                                      7.2      6.9        7 0        6.9
Industrv                                       40.3      42.7       31.7       2 7 .7
Manufacturing                                 16.4      19.6       13.9      12.4 
Services                                       52.5      50.4       61.3       65 .4                                    5    5s
Private consumption                            62.3      67.0       60.4       62 .3    10
General government consumption                 19.3      14.1       18.6       17.4               -GOI            GDP
Imports of qoods and services                  50.6      56.7       55.2       56.0
1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                      0.3      3.0        0.2        1.7    20
Industry                                        0.8      -0.2        -1.4      -0.1    I 
Manufacturinq                                  1.7     -1.8        -3.9      -0 9
Services                                         1.5      0.9        0.2       -0.1 
Private consumption                             3.5      -0.9        8.1        0.4    -10
General government consumption                  5.2       1.5       -5.3       -2.6
Gross domestic investment                       -1.1      5.4        -8.8       0.4    -20
ImDorts of goods and services                   7.7       1.4       -2.3       -2.4             -     Enports     -   Imporls
Gross national product                          0.7       1.4        0.9       -2.4
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four keY indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-qroup averaqe. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 58 -



Jamaica
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                   6
(% change)                                                                        6
Consumer prices                              28.7    14.3        6.0       8.4    40
Implicit GDP deflator                        16.6    12.6        6.9      10.4104
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current qrants)
Current revenue                                       31.8      28.0      30.3            94   95   96   97   96    9
Current budget balance                                 5.6      -4.3      -2.4            -     GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                1.2      -7.2      -4.3
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     1999       Export and import levels (US$ mill .)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                  1,000     1,551     1,535    4.000
Alumina                                              475       588       672
Bauxite                                              ill11      83        48    3,000
Manufactures                                          69        43        44                      *
Total imports (cif)                                  1,674     3,131     3,179    2,000
Food                                                 160       280       328     1o000
Fuel and enerqy                                      274       293       429
Capital goods                                        565       516      472        o  0J                 l.        _
93  94  95  96  97  98   9
Exportpriceindex(1995=100)                             81        107      110
Import prce index (1995=100)                   ..      81        107      111                  * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                             100        100       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      cunent account balance to GDP I%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services               1,165    1,941     3,353     3,365    0
Imports of goods and services               1,198    2,291     3,925    4,035
Resource balance                              -32    -350       -571     -670
Net income                                   -187    -271       -283      -354      iI1            U        II        i
Net current transfers                         80      323        638      698
Current account balance                               -298      -217      -326    -4
Financing items (net)                                 136        204      204
Changes in net reserves                      159      161         13      122    .6
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                           700      801
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)              1.8      5.7      36.9      40.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                     composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,705    4,560     3,995    4,069
IBRD                                       127      650        410      393
IDA                                          0        0          0        0                G 638       A:393
C:866
Total debt service                           302      643        537      674
IBRD                                        15      109         99       99
IDA                                          0        0          0        0              /D: 526
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             13      123         92
Official creditors                         110       75       -144     -186        F: 1,215 ,
Privatecreditors                           -39      -11       217      -108
Foreign direct investment                   -26      57        369                                           : 1,216
Portfolio equity                             0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                 60       75          0        0      A - IBRD                    E - ilateral
Disbursements                               19       52         31       64      B- IDA    D- Other multiateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         5       54         72       75        C- IMF                   G- Short-term
Net flows                                   15       -2        -41      -11
Interest payments                           11       55         28       24
Net transfers                                4       -57       -68       -35
Development Economics                                                                                              9/9/2000
- 59 -



Additional
Annex 11
Overview of current Social Safety Net
Jamaica spends approximately US$78 million per year on social safety net programs, defined as programs
intended to provide assistance to poor and vulnerable groups. The main programs in the safety net, along
with their associated budget, and number of beneficiaries (where relevant) are listed in the table below.
1.    Income transfer programs
Jamaica has three main income support programs which provide cash or in-kind welfare benefits,
and which together account for about 20% of spending in the SSN. The largest and most important of
these is the food stamp program, which was started in 1984 in part as a response to large public sector
layoffs at that time, and is administered through the Ministry of Labour and Social Security (MLSS). The
food stamp program's annual budget is US$9 million, and there are about 170,000-200,000 beneficiaries,
with the two largest beneficiary groups being the elderly and/or disabled, and families with nutritionally
at-risk children aged 0-5.
The second transfer program is poor relief program, which also targets the elderly and disabled, as
well as indigent families, and is administered by the Ministry of Local Government. Beneficiaries are
identified by local poor relief workers, who also perform casework. There are about 24,000 beneficiaries
in this program. The third income support program is the Public Assistance Program, also administered by
the MOLSS. This program provides a small cash transfer to a target group consisting of the elderly poor,
disabled, and indigent individuals.
2.     School-based programs
The Ministry of Education and Culture administers a subsidized School Feeding Program (SFP),
which consists of a hot lunch component and a snack component ("nutribun" and milk). The program is
intended to provide one meal per day to beneficiaries in basic, infant, primary, all-age, junior high and
comprehensive schools. According to the Ministry's Corporate Plan for 1998-99, the objective of the
program is to "provide students with meals of basic nutritional value in an effort to encourage regular
attendance, and give support to developmental activities in the schools." While the cost of lunch is shared
by the Government (through a subsidy of the production and delivery of the different products) and the
student, schools are supposed to be provided with funds to cover up to 20% free lunches per school to
needy students identified by school administrators. However the current cost-recovery and exemption
procedures and targeting are neither systematic nor well monitored. The cost to students of the snack is
J$2 and the cost of the cooked lunch varies from approximately J$ 10 to 40. The SFP is one of the larger
items in the SSN, with an annual budget of US$9 million and coverage of about 170,000 with the snack
and 130,000 children in the cooked lunch program.
Although one of the objectives of the program is to encourage regular attendance, it is not apparent
whether the current design of the program, which is not clearly poverty-targeted, is achieving that aim. The
cost of lunch is the most significant component of non-tuition out-of-pocket school expenditures for
households, representing 40% of all such expenditure, while 80% of households from the lowest quintile
cite 'money problems' as the main reason for non-attendance by children. School attendance, especially for
poor children in rural areas, is a significant problem in Jamaica. Within this context, the cooked lunch
- 60 -



component, which formally requires a fairly large co-payment, may not be going far enough to overcome
the financial constraints for school attendance among poor children, particularly in rural areas. This
hypothesis is consistent with anecdotal reports from school-level administrators and teachers. Additionally,
data from the 1999 SLC show that a full 59% of children from the richest quintile participate in the SFP,
while only 65% of children from the poorest quintile do so. Further research is required to reform the SFP'
s targeting mechanism in order to achieve its objective of improving school attendance and making program
expenditures more progressive.
A major education-based program with the potential for impacting poor families is the Grants to
Basic Schools Program. Enrollment in early childhood education (age 3-5) is extremely high in Jamaica,
and predominantly through basic schools or infant departments of primary schools. However, the current
subvention of Basic Schools is not clearly poverty targeted nor focused on any beneficiary's need criteria,
potentially leading to schools in poorer regions (rural and inner city areas) receive lower subsidies than
others.
The other program for school-aged children is the School Fee Assistance Program, designed to help
needy secondary level students pay school fees that were introduced in 1994/95 as part of a formal Cost
Sharing Scheme which requires that parents contribute to the cost of secondary education. Parents must
apply for assistance, and the school principal or guidance counselor deternines the amount of subsidy, if
any, based on an assessment of need. In 1997, 38,500 students received assistance, 18% of which received
a full fee waiver. Only 17% of the students who receive waivers are from the poorest quintile while 31% of
students who receive fee waivers are from quintile 4. The amount of resources spent on this program has
increased 329% in nominal terms between 1995 and 1997, while requests for full assistance during this
samne period increased by 126% and by 227% for partial assistance. The current poor distribution of the
subsidy across quintiles and the rising expenditure trend implies that a better targeting system needs to be
applied.
3.     Other SSN programs
The Ministry of Health operates the Jamaica Drugs for the Elderly Program (JADEP) provides
subsidized drugs to the elderly who suffer from specific diseases such as hypertension, diabetes, glaucoma,
artr.itis, and asthma. The Ministry also administers a small supplementary feeding program, which
distributes commeal to malnourished children in public health clinics.
Finally, there are three community-based safety net interventions, the Jamaica Social Investment
Fund (JSIF), which is co-financed by the World Bank (LN 4088-JA), the IDB and other donors, the Social
and Economic Support Program (SESP), and Lift-Up Jamaica. The JSIF is a social investmnent fund that
finances community social and economic infrastructure on a demand-driven basis. The SESP is
administered by the Office of the Prime Minister and also provides funds to communities for infrastructure
and training projects, although the selection criteria for projects and beneficiaries are not clear. Lift-Up
Jamaica is a community based public works program targeted towards youth-at-risk. It was designed as a
short-term response to a critical social situation, with a project life of 18 months and funding from the
profits of public sector enterprises.
-61 -



EXPENDITURES ON MAJN SOCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
2000-01          NUMBER OF
BUIDGET         BNUMEIIRIOS
___________:__E_______________:______ USS MILLION BENEfICIARIES
INCOME SUPPORT PROGRAMS
Food Stamps                                                      9.0              200,000
Poor Relief                                                      2.5                16,000
Public Assistance                                                3.8               24,000
SUBTOTAL                                  15.3
SCHOOL BASED WELFARE PROGRAMS
School Feeding Program                                          10.0              300,000
School Fee Assistance                                            4.8                40,000
SUBTOTAL                                  14.8
COMMUNITY BASED PROGRAMS
Social Investment Fund (IDB, World Bank, CDB)                    8.3
Social Economic Support Program                                  9.0
SUBTOTAL                                  17.3
LABOR MARKET PROGRAMS
Lift Up Jamaica                                                 14.0                4,000
Skills 2000                                                      1.3
Self-Start Fund (EU)                                             6.3
SUBTOTAL                                  21.5
TARGETED HEALTH PROGRAMS
Jamaica Drug for the Elderly                                     2.8               100,000
Supplementary Feeding Program                                    0.1                80,000
SUBTOTAL                                   03.0
INDIGENT HOUSING
Operation Pride and Golden Age Homes                             2.0
SUBTOTAL                                   2.0
OTHER PROGRAMS                                                   5.0
SUBTOTAL                                   5.0
TOTAL                                   78.4
- 62 -



Additional
Annex 12
Social Assessment
In preparation of the new Unified Benefit Prograrn, a range of social assessment data informed the design
of the project, including:
*   Studies conducted as part of the project preparation, including a Social Safety Net Assessment, a
Labor Force Assessment, a Profile of the Poor, an Econometric Study of the Impact of Structural
Adjustment on the Poor and a Policy Note on Youth-at-Risk.
*   The Jamaica Survey of Living Conditions (SLC), an annual Living Standards Measurement Study used
to assess the incidence of poverty and other social indicators in Jamaica since 1989.
*   A Study On Coping Strategies of The Poor commissioned by the Plarning Institute of Jamaica as part
of the 1999 SLC. This report highlighted that the primary coping strategies of the poor are to reduce
food intake and to keep children home from school.
*   The draft UNICEF Situation Analysis of Children and their Families 2000 that highlighted the
increased incidence of late immunizations among young children, low levels of pre- and post-natal care,
high incidence of low birth weight babies and high incidence of micronutrient deficiencies in children
and pregnant women.
* A Beneficiary Consultation commissioned as part of project preparation to gain insights into how
existing and potential clients perceive social assistance programs and to afford beneficiaries the
opportunity to participate in the design of the proposed program.
Highlights of The Beneficiary Consultation
Beneficiaries (N=248) from the Food Stamp Public Assistance, Poor Relief programs were interviewed in
eighteen focus groups held in eight of Jamaica's fourteen parishes.
Respondents identified the following weaknesses in existing programs: insufficiency of benefits; stigma;
discontinuing children's benefits at age 6; fact that children's benefit sometimes starts up to 4 years after
registration, leaving only 2 years for benefits; problems with cashing Food Stamps because of the
inflexibility of shopkeepers (this affects roughly half of respondents); long intervals between payments;
regulation that one person cannot collect more than 3 Food Stamp payments which discriminates against
large families and those who may be collecting for someone else; unsatisfactory condition and location of
pay stations; lack of system to inform beneficiaries of payment date changes; high time and travel costs to
receive benefits.
Based on their assessed levels of need, the benefit required to better able beneficiaries to "fill a gap" in
satisfying basic needs was between J$ 1,000 per month or J$ 1,500 every other month for approximately
half of those consulted (irrespective of geography) and between J$500 and J$ 1,000 per month for the
remaining beneficiaries. Male respondents tended to be the ones citing extremely high amounts needed -
some requiring between J$ 3,000 and J$ 10,000 monthly.
- 63 -



Positive features of existing programs include: caring treatment of beneficiaries; advice on accessing
other programs; assistance in accessing healthcare and medication for those who are ill; benefits can be
depended on, even if they were occasionally late; benefits 'stop a gap,' particularly when there were no
other sources of income or benefits.
Beneficiaries felt that a combined program would be better. The response was largely based on the ideal
of having sufficient money at one time and therefore being able to plan and budget better, permit them to be
less dependent on credit and reduce their time and travel costs.
Beneficiaries overwhelmingly support the requirement of school and clinic attendance, as a condition
for remaining on the new program.
Respondents recommend the following eligibility criterion: elderly incapacitated; disabled elderly
poor/elderly disabled; destitute; unemployed household head; large number of dependents; no visible means
of support; inadequate food intake.
With respect to payment arrangements, the majority wanted (a) the location of pay stations to be retained
and (b) cash on a monthly basis. However, beneficiaries noted that cash payments have their downside
because clients could be easy targets for robbers - especially if pay station are moved - and because
payment in cash requires restraint on the part of the recipient.
With respect to procedures for registering grievances, responses ranged from keeping the current
'informal' system of registering complaints in person verbally with the respective officers, which is more
sensitive to the needs of non-literate clients, to written complaints taken to the main parish office.
Disabled and elderly clients constitute a special category for whom infrequently paid benefits is
particularly difficult. They also have a broader range of needs than the benefits they receive are able to
meet. Home visits are reported to be critical, more so for those without families, so that they can be
continually monitored for any deterioration in living condition and ameliorative measures taken.
Beneficiaries emphasize the importance of home visits to investigate and monitor the poor.
Re-certification was seen as a part of regular case management and respondents saw routine
re-certification as necessary.
The role of existing clients and community residents in making referrals was highlighted.
Beneficiaries pointed to the need for public information through a neutral system for the more
marginalized poor. The church could be invited to play an active role in this vital area of information
dissemination.
- 64 -



Additional
Annex 13
Institutional Arrangements:
Responsibilities of the Social Protection and Development (SPAD) Division
1 . Oversee and facilitate the implementation of the Unified Benefit Program, the Bank-funded Project and
its comnponents;
2. Formulate and recommend revisions of Unified Benefit Program policies and present submissions
through the Permanent Secretary for consideration by Cabinet.
3. Formulate divisional goals and account for progress or otherwise towards predetermined objectives;
4. Direct the preparation and carry out the final review of amendments and revisions of operating
guidelines methods and procedures for implementing the UBP;
5. Work closely with the MLSS Finance Division in financial management arrangements related to
project implementation and disbursements (see Annex 6 on Financial Management);
6. Work closely with the Management Information System Division in the design and implementation of
the MIS system for project implementation;
7. Prepare terms of reference, supervise the work of consultants contracted to assist in project
implementation; review and approve on a preliminary basis the documents produced by consultants and
request final review and approval by Director of Social Security in the MLSS and the Bank as
required;
8. In collaboration with the Finance Division, operate a computerized control system for tracking all
project specific activities: budgeting, contracting, procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing
to enable adequate monitoring and control of implementation;
9. Organize based on need, workshop or other training activities for the MLSS staff (central and perish
level), other agencies and beneficiaries, directly related to project implementation;
10. Oversee the design and supervise the implementation of public information and education campaigns
related to project implementation;
11. Prepare periodic reports on physical and financial progress of project performance and propose
corrective actions as needed;
12. Develop and maintain a documentation system for project implementation to generate complete and
updated information on the progress of project implementation for each of the components and for the
project as a whole, in line with specific indicators, to permit the production of periodic reports as
required by the MLSS and the Bank;
13. Act as MLSS counterpart for Bank missions related to project coordination submissions,
implementation, and other matters related to the project;
14. Coordinate the design and implementation of a monitoring system, prepare terms of reference for the
design of the impact evaluation;
15. Establish the linkages with other Ministries and Agencies directly related to project implementation;
16. Provide terms of reference, oversee, supervise and establish procedures for the pilot income transfer
scheme and the transfer program thereafter,
- 65 -



17. Organize and prepare the agenda for the Annual Review.
- 66 -



Additional
Annex 14
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF LABOR AND SOCIAL SECURITY
Minister
|Permnanent|
Director of              Director of                                   Director of MIS              Director of Human
Administration               Finance                                                                      Resources
Director                                                        Director
Social Security                                                     Labor
Directo                                         Director          l
National Insurance                              Social Protection &
_  Development Program
Admientra t ivestra
ParishCManager                   Program Coordinator
Informaacon &Training Coord.
M & E Of ficer
Senior Social Worker
FM Specialist
Procurement Of ficer
Administrative Staff
Clerical Staff
NtoaInsurance    |Unified Benefit
PrsAdinistrator  |Parish Administrator
| Workers           -
- 67 -



Additional
Annex 15
Proxy Means Test in Jamaica
A proxy means test is a method to estimate household consumption or welfare without requiring
extremely detailed information about household income. In countries such as Jamaica, Russia or
Chile where there is a large informal sector, it can be very difficult and administratively very costly
to verify true household money income. Furthermore, in Jamaica and other countries, a
significant part of household food consumption comes from food grown on private garden plots.
It can be very difficult to estimate the true value (impute the value correctly) of home-produced
goods, since typically, they are produced with "costless" family labor and their quality may be
different than for example food items which are produced for sale.
The Government of Jamaica is interested in finding cost-effective ways to determine who is poor
and how to best help the poor. In proxy means tests, rather than trying to measure total income
perfectly, information is collected on items which are much easier to measure and verify, such as
the number of children in the family, etc. These variables should be ones which are known to
correlate with poverty in the country, and ideally, which are easy to measure and thus require little
administrative cost to verify. The first large-scale use of proxy means-testing occurred in Chile in
the late 1970s and 1980s, in a program called the Ficha CAS (card for social assistance). Since
1994, Costa Rica and Columbia have adopted proxy means-tests for some of their social
assistance programs, Mexico is about to start a proxy means-test program, and Argentina and
Venezuela are actively considering the idea. In other regions of the world, Armenia has a
proxy-means tested family benefit (child allowance) and experiments with the approach were
conducted in three provinces of Russia.
Fortunately, Jamaica has an annual Survey of Living Conditions (SLC) - a household expenditure
survey which can be used to determine the correlates of expenditure-based poverty and transform
them into a scoring formula that can be used to rank households from the poorest to the best-off.
The task is to measure the correlation between household welfare (per equivalent expenditures)
and other easily-measured variables. The technique used was ordinary least squares (OLS)
regression, and further, stepwise regression (in which variables are excluded if they are not
significantly correlated with per capita expenditures) will be used. Technically speaking, the OLS
or stepwise techniques should only be used for variables which are thought to be independent
(exogenous) and not directly correlated with each other. However, since we are only trying to
find proxies (substitutes) for poverty which are more easily measured than household
expenditures (rather than trying to decide what determines poverty) we can ignore this caveat in
this context.
The resulting scoring formula will be revised periodically to minimize errors.
- 68 -



Additional
Annex 16
Letter of Sector Development Policy
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PLANNING
30 NATIONAL HEROES CIRCLE
eP.O. BOX 512
..tbM4. IL.4' i '4 P*ACA  ~t~r~4 ZIS' 48
I -Wsr.'4I1,t tW4k . rffiThg,                                                      KINGSTON 4
.     ,x  : s. ....                                                                   JAMAICA
Kingston, July 31, 2001
.  ,,S2CAN-NEI FILI                 r
r-l.        Dilnles L . Wl ill                      I    N liDate    9   (C No.h_
I IIe Wtorld Ralik                                                  (MR
I IS Il  Street                                     Fdder I      U  C          >       [2t
Wasiington lI'    0433
I D)ar Mr. \WI IL'flSOil
j   1134. ( pCri1JI3   of1 jitOht. ab as  of r ils 'Mcktlmtani  Toms Fcuntic :md Social Potiev
rtamcwork. is umiscrlaklti, a relbiV n of tle Soc:ial Safety Net (SSN) tO imprtOvc, targctgnw 01
Vfie leedy, relevuince alnd  eIltivcncss of the    lf   .ad r;ichd   programmes. and
e-;Licincy itt tle tiClemitry o1 the services. These acisomis are lwmng laken ii  thle< cow%lt  ;l
iitUJOr McJiumitnnr social polsmcy agendia aimod at ;sddrussina  special wceds tf tliThiictsii
2    Ibis Letter or Social Sector D v%e cloproeiw Policy desenbes .Iantazcit's current SOCLO   LiuHit
coilditiOns anid its cullrent and propvised process of social soetr rvforms,  in suppoit of mIte
SSN reforms, the (iovcniniellt hlws rquested a loanl firolio tile Wtisrld H3alnk, -The (GO%enmmctient
appreciates tlhe Hanik's 0ilculmn 10 pl rovide over tlhe: nICit twto  yeaIrs. up LO S75 miillioni in
MtTpport to-, ttim  weocal :cL;tt. ot o  Which tle proposed lot) to I;<o 4 1at II 54 nlct icijino } 'll
provide 40,1  nmillion.   f l1  Jamaican audtltitircs tnlend  to reqLLst support  rot th4e
Ctttt1t0litiUtt r tc'fltvIlir ofi Netimnhtlaty etiheation its i n  thek developuent of crl,y childhood
edUcatIon. Jt J 1ate' ldame.
'Ilw4 Beiak's support for the Social Safety Net Relurut l'r;jact is intmnmidetl lti en.abhl l th:
(iovcreimtitk'  to) cstablbsh a 1 Umfijed licfsIoft twrgcttedl tt pOwr tersonis, to icpkmcc tin cc cxutsims
Mc)M'le :sutppon progrfilnles    itec overall ttiediil;U  progranmmne wdll itncludc paymllw'; 14i
persons in pwor Iouseholds with tho fillowing charactcristics: leads or householdsN  lmnAt
chilidIreni, butweenl thte augsul ol eur  and 17 ycars old, are attentdinig schtool mektmrl.y aind4I
rOceivitg scedl01uled check-ups iat heallth clitics: tlte eldcrly: the ds&sblcd;: dcStitiLsc Stillv'lc
- 69 -



ici' ns,i anti pr;g,ian0 lawiv womIUeL. For imtl of the htrtciuiarte", cmiinitoil 4V'aymi ot'
hewlfts wSlH he linke4M lo .icrltidnce at uehools and clinics.
41.  Il'he SSN   liOrwt is focussd  vlwithin tie contuxt of the pi-Jrity  eqWuirenteis l'r cikijet vn,
yoWli iand gender eatzidil   licalth; edotation mid tr4ining; sucial mxtnity, well'ate and
po)krty  eradication.   T(w  wC(onmn  strategy  is tiniAd  to:  firtm, cnsure  udoqtLwt%
devc1loritilai provs1i os 6iir chitdren fionin i M    ew a;arly cIhildoIIJod yveats. scixon, iros- l
oquitable  ducafioo  antd  r;iitnim, desigoW lto ixlulp  young  pcsnouis tir emplovinem
opportutitiQs coitnensmare 4<  t1h tiki domtmuds ota dynamic g'lAliz.cd taivitir nmark*kC. (wmd,
etiahhiv atiolesuets 10 cti vhoL  sxieially wnd persnmUlly  cSbir4     alierf)i.es  ri rWlation Io
iidrtillay. drug abuse and ciiew., uourtli, promote  aind eniowewr cizies to le;td licallhv
ifastyks, anu Iiid I, ratio;liili, conisolidate and StrengtcL1n thc ;nittil ina) aurr;mj,,vm,-s ii
deltvory  of Incrcased  honclits :ir so'iul socurity. N%elfwrv  tand  poverty  cradicaJion
prlgr.llllltL'S
Trhui s,traiqy  will be iurstwti witilin tii; coutest of a %ibramt~f pir ai'tuly kdeuotae':
facihitatvtl by a reiirmae  sysutemi of local gcvrnuncnt. dececixralised seirvice ministrWis a;ln d1
icrelilcal slruciitmr of delopment commitIMees IftIo IthC COMMUni Iity level tho the natimial
1eVeL. (;,'i& nP1rg ithc itratliles for social advancement, 1the note  Xt ricieunt andtttl ' i-v
Social S.Curity, vvtfarc aid lioverty ceradic:nion provisionS %vtl[ bc fin ak    to iluh  dc<} etl
programmes. 'i'lhe (iovcrnmicut will comtinue to undTc rc ltlh  inpOtianice of coiwU
level patrticipation in the plamnng ad imid mplattiatlion of services .i(ta protgrarnms,  1-1mi
visIVtn will conlintic to lead in the creution of parish (ICNevlopwmiet   nnluel.iltvi, comll6tiVl
ttllStlifalXVe cot mXniees a1d niiiativesu ueh as local govemcmrt relirmn.
SMIO) ECONOM1(C lFRAMIMO7K(
t. Kl oput is  estinlald Lo lahve grown by 08 per cent in 2XIU, tfolowibt . a decline of n. i
per Cent in fiscal i 999, FtOf thie lsLal year 2000/01i, it is estiuinatec that real UutpUt i1VsedCkI
by about I  eler cent,  lolsi tg a &dcinc olf) I per ccti in riscal 100820(4)0 whichl
rpresented the fourth consQccintsc year of ontractuon. itnlatiot l'Or fscal year 20ou0Jl ixa
0.4 p-er cntt. down rront the 1999J2WU increase orS.4 per cLaut winch was lal-$cty thiv remSlt
t)F hlighr prices for oil imxIrls.  Tih  tmeploYmkirn   rate is cstimaled ton biavk retmnailued
stable at about 15.3 p;  ec1ut. vitlh somne niew cntrants itoilu th  labour force hciitg eiigtepd In
tihe informal sextoT.  1)urm-i  2(Xg, thle excthnge raw  aveivag4  A143.32  to USl$1 .0.
:zesepeli(ng a I MJ)0 per cenlt dqirciation, compxared with a 7.2 peo cnti  aiijostmetat inu 1999p;
r    fajor eli'lafrts in fcal cosohlaal  werc underaken du,rin- 19Y).2CXX) it) 2(K0010)     li h
2(XKQIOl fiscall suiplus of $4.4 Wiioo or ).4 per cen r  tol)  ouct-pcrIo^md the SMP" nuCl
of 1.0 per cent, ulid was t1e fitut surpluiS Sinc  rfiicI JP)95$ )(. The 6.4 per Lent rate tw1
ibnflators for the fiscal yeaitr Ui"' wvithini the SMP targct rangge of  fl} p-r cent to I'M per 1xet.
Ithe lhvVl ol N[IR msupaS>ett 7   itarget  of 14 YI NweCks oI  pmjVclC(d1 111portS 01u,s .  I
services. In twrmk oif strtuio  hienchmiaurks, tlhc Governmeint was- succefussful Mn Alt11\ 1
Solme Q>f the. %;Irges incluklil  thic rcduction ot ceal rcsrve requirements to 12,  per Ccki
1 X hci ave0Agc anuweztj1 csxvNazie fi r 8  jas A 7 a  -ic i  litm ul   t tcs
- 70 -



:i hM  hq~thi.Xx*5lnv r    tre'soLS to) 21.0 per cent-: ttahhtn ol approyir ial: k-ias   w t t
rc&tfrds  thk ili Fiti.anial Scr e tcc } Commission: aKi the privatisition ovl tclclrwcityl   lit-
Janica Ptlbltc Scrvicc Co4mpany iiitlcd.
(   rlic fiscait 2100001 pcrjira;tlcc undCrinis Ilic efforts at rual. sustainei   m'tj   cmlt It
cconomy, Trie ptiubic sector lm)imiUary surplus had increasd by 6.5 pcrccn:agc f-wints ol (ii)1
to 7 0 V . ccit in 1999, aiivly through strengtheneod taxs dninistralioi) and eff(ewnc  gains.
ti the operation tsif the public  ntnerpriscs.  Thle growing interest bill on thle large public
s%ctor dcbt had morc thai olYset iltis gain, and tte overall ptthlic sector dJeicit 1h;ad ino%ced
fromn ?T  per cent of (ilW, I  19S'`99 to 3.6 p3r cetnt of 1'0.1- in 191199/201).  1Furtliea
consolidation efforts in N9'.2M(), relying miiailly on expndinture cuts anid somtte reVC'lttle'
tlcasUtres. raised the public set'cor ptimary sutrpls by .bouti 4.0 lxreeniagtc points to 11 ,I pci
cern i1 OD1. Theu ovcrrll public sector dericit impnovod by 3 ruagv pointS oF (l)i}'
tuscaw   of, vxpenditure CuiS Ind ijncreaised reveLue. Suh%qucn0y. tie sitIck  l of puhlic &t
had risen fronil atbon  1131S  pe;r cciit of GDP at IhI: end ofthe tiscat year 099sP9) to aNxiht
144,0) pcr cot of `00 P tt tit., vmi ol f"MO MW
P for some n    yvears, the Go.J has pursued strategics io  iltigatie crses in thc Financial Scrmico
Setor (F.SSif which could have resulted in finiaicial colIapss.   hI 1997. a Goernmintit
OWAned  Iumxll1cd liability  tompn;yt. Fitac (1Finuncial SnLor Adjusttmcnt   omipaiiy~ NW aS
ronned, to manage the rst&whor al 'io   liq4uidity and reswtiring of the FSS. Fitsll, ae  iith -
risinrt dcht pilronfoo was operaled 'offbudget 1or ovc' two years. lit crallillng  teMdtint
'I cnn r bconomic and Social Framnwork. a itioro aWlgtssivc sItraegy  Iiir Fillsav w.va
developed. To support (tc st,utcly. Ionctary inflows rrom nIultiltcralt lituviing m-tumwc,
were avaituble through ol'filciat (oJ borrowing, starling in 20KM10t. Cotcurreitly, ttic Fiisuc
dcbt was br-ought into thc Iiscuai liigc With the bringing ol Finsac' dcbt into the 2(g)z 01
hbudel, the Govemmnm) will hK challenged to resolve thie debt and debt wrvlcing cotmts. rht
planncd deht manutgmerne  strategies hatYC tlkAct into accounit the need to achievc it continu11tedk
lowering of tic iitcrest rakle.  t'hc potential to mcci the chalIcagcs has gained ismtl#
rcoysliliols ili the  jpgradmilw. ti l:amatic's long-torm sLovcreigni crcdit ratlimgp  1w .iatid.ir
anld Yoor, TI'his improvedi r.linl8g will facilitate tle (iO'S sihift of its det4 port olbo to lotci
cost tireign sources, ane comniinbtte to the lowcrilig ol'intercSt raics.
thi (iTh nGverunivicn is comimtmtcd io taking the necessary actions Lo rclurn toa  suslaimudble lone-
tern paiti. IFonr year,, the straiegnes to mitigaic thC Clisis in the lititc tal  "rvies 5tsc tiom  n^
mainly donseStic resources relaced (htc cApacity orf thl  )ublic SOector to dteivcr estsn fiat
sorvices, particularly healtil. education and social services used hy ihe pior. (iceniraleJ
cfforts mt reditcing the anntuil ebht service requirents of (3o.. will rlceasc resource.s tlo
assist itt l'nlcinig social. %C:eootitc, atul prodtHwfiv t mns nt,ilctut. .11nd to sustalin Mtc  prporse
increitSes in the social safeti n. n,Within ttle wi4er coltlxt. the mimtllinclnt returil (to a  Patil o
-rowth will provide OppOrlniuties for man3y of' tilm tiiivemptoyed ai uaK ider-eimployv%  Io
;articiplut in thl liUsctio moltulie tacivilies ol'-th coanltry.
B3. fI h  Social Sector
i 0)J's long-tmn) social prliey critelrs on an itit.grateid programnoic of sociaL dcvlopmncli
designed to create a Mor N pmroducLive anjid empowed citif.anry. As such, tIe priorttiL' Mr
di short o mediurn cm  are tcuSc  on protectiti,   poo and vulncrabl while inmpml iity
the quality of liic throughi increased access to dcveloplmtetal progruiminics, xi; itj mi
'3
- 71 -



cowullniic 1)}(llp-luI  cs  :ttIL   l iaCti socialhtn                   iio
s*tot  ill concautraw  omv: fik  osiot of curly childhood  carc and devclopl lwiW
imnpfoving quality. access, fkrAOsUnce and equity at the scconduwy level; atic provisioit ot
appropriate klnowledge and skills tltrough tertiary education  lld Ihe Iraining system (o t cel
thlc ncds or the l.our  xarkct. il tbe tailth sector, wc will see  to consolitdate (Ile oamns
madc in primary hemlth; care Und simultanmeously emphasize preventive stralegics and lealthy
life styles. 1hi addition, rocus will he placed on seexting the wclfaro of Me most vtulncrahlh.
cspccially the poor and childrei. via a mlodcriic andi smretimlited SSN.
12  InI advatcig (tic social a-tcida, the e nprchensivu pro gratno   of rfurmi currently
underway will ha intensiliold  I or ex-amplo, lAwal Govornment Reform and Public Seclot
Modern isaion will allow ihe average citiz.en to play *m grcater role in tile process of
govc:rnuncc atul tihX rsmullt III nereacd accountability. bttwr 1t-Mus'tdi atnd iiorc mvtiVmt
public policics uInd a morc involved and empowcr dA ciltiycry. Morcovwr, refiwt-n% Siviilmc
it) Ilic stejal sectlor sutcih s' t}h .Jamaica Social Policy F'valuaiion Prnojet (JASiJ*PV) %jli
creatc a fraunicwom  tior lig-ioenil policy planning. continuous policy review and  juadsltoelil.
and more integrated and e.sd,olalital policy planninii1g amsd implementatiotn.  JASPEV will
also Xestablish benchmarks aainst which policies will be otintlorcd and cvalualtcd
Priorities for Poverty Eradication
Consistent witlh Ih policy goid o eCOOrklic     (irowttt iuld vl OOP"Tnc t, ( vCrosneit rclAtins
focu5sed oti thI  eradicalioti of Absolute poverly in Jamnica. In addition tto 11h  in"provCd
purchasing power brought aotwl by the stability aitd improved clitmate of cot mpctiion Ir
consumer goods, coordiiated efforts to iinprove thc quality of life of the poor hegant with ih1
niiplcmtemialtntm  of the National Povrty Er-adicaAion P1rogaunmme (NPEP) inth ilic 199596
riscal year. 'The incidetnce tiflxveny has fallem fNrm 28,0 per cenlt in tha year, to i 17.0 pe
coitt in 1O99)9  Ovet the next dtivo years, poverty ceraditatiott will remain a tmajor focus  l'thc
social agenda. Withi enipha'.is oin  consolidating  gatins anil riucing  Iisk  tlhrougli
implemunlat ion of more developrnentoriented progrinmueq
I lih hpopulation growth 1  Axitiiiibuledi to ltighi levels otf 'iasulultt povertyv environmnlem.
dc,gradatioi, antd  xcessive (I.ia-ldI on availablc resources. Stabilization of Jamaica's
popiuation at zcro growlh is ;i oujor objective  ofthe National Population Policy. Over th:
miediunm terni, xpulatioi gn)wlh rate is exlpcted to declinr to 0.7 pr cont frotm  its currnm
level of 0.9 per cent. in ortier 1 imnprove wc)lheing  ud achiteve thc desired lppUlatiot
growth rate of 0.7 per ent targets to be pursu Wd include reduction of the Total Fertility Rate
(TFR) to an average of 2.6 ciiltdreni per womai by 2003. dowI frtm its presownt rate ol 7.X
children per woman.
f[he G(;wMttlent rexxileC iZe., the 11ed for a IonMglei. eompreheiisive sotluion m t t aidros% il
uticds of the poor and vUonCr'.hle. Ai  commitment to contiprelItisive reformim oi hm scwial
s:ccirity arx WtA (lre sys"   wa4ll  tsi riilaliwAl in a (tahilwet lDxisioa in October 20Xg). For hiyv
specific IUtiii'tn  benerit reiotrm it) which the 13ank is providing supporL, the Cahitice Lk-o o
d4mision In Vebrary 2001. In the shou to iedium   rinm. Government has cmb^rket on
reforin and rationolisatiotn of the social security and welfare system to achtevc grawtr
effectiveness and efiTcincicy.  Ihis is to be achicved by a two-prongod strategy a simetd a
improved social scurity o t11im cne hand, wid a better targeped and strcuinmlmi soelat.t
neft sysitcm on the other.
.-
- 72 -



16. Social sccurity is sen ii, 11}w key to prvontilng povery in, th populaton's non-workiung
years. 'lli nutcklus of the social security cmpojcnl is comprVhensivu pension rchiml Li
rcflcet current global uan  national ecnomic and labour market enlvironlmou an1d to esusur
that all persons andlor thcir bvictcioarics are adequately provided fr after retirenienl and arv
protectLd against loss of inIcojm duc to iWvaliditydisability or cmp1oynwn-relaite injtar of
dcath*  During 1499 and 20ft, dliscussions on proposed Pcnsion Rformn were held wiilt
industry staikeholdrs and at public ncdins. In tirder to itcrporate th views of the public
and iniplenicl th;e rrom1z wcomonnded, a N iannt Pcn3ions Act is being drauf.
'. 'rite ncw Pcnsiotis Act s expluted to bc ini pl" duritg 7iscal 20023. Atmiong lth cxpcctcd
ouicorrcs or pensio  rcbrni will be: the cxtensin of the basic provisions of th  N1alional
Insuraiwe Schete (NIS) to) at wider critm-section of Jamiaicuns; improvement in tlh
administration or the NIS. iniroduction of a wiusex irutiresnetit age. initroductiuii o4'
rraigeienmts ior ehiidrvis to iprovide pensions lor their parents, bcltr rqgulafuiof th,of
pension antd superaamuatioll ,henes rw both public aixi privaic seclor enphwe s;  u
tmtden and ralevant legal franmewoik ftr pension aiaratioti.
S. i'hc philosophy in res:pel of we:lar coAiOiues to bx that or reduciig dependeney  tnd
pronioting self-rcliance wmong huneficiarics. Thu undcrlying arategy is lhrme-pniiett:
3a mciai assistance cornpone4t with t11 prosed txrgettud. inome iransfcrs unuler the I titifitl
B.liurtd Piogitjuitiua U  the mIajso  lhtvst, making the lbtai rits condilional on atwitdance at
school andi IwalIh clinics by poor children between 0 and 17 yeas will cottuibtuw to breaking
sih cycle trf povrty in the long term,
*  tievcoping the II -CO nngcapucity or tho working ago Wle-bodied poor hy providintg
tratlvng Opportunities, micro enterprise suPort. anid ltnancial services., using ctXtnlmUtntv-
based upproaches: and
*  provision and upgrading of m.wial inrrastnicture (sucd as waWr supply and saitwation* in pooi
areas.
' Tbese              will be cpkxpcmented by on-going refonns in oducation  nUd lhealth.
P'riority programmes in cdtca!aon and healkh, contributing as they dto o the development of
human capitai undcrlyinig the aimns of the SSN refornts, are described below
Rofrwms for Mutation
20,. nhe Governfmeanc  is conrntitito  to niaintaining priority bugdwry allocation ibr educalion
andl traininlg in the medium) term. In the lscalf yer 20(0/1 tshueaiion ands tr-tining rct'eivc,
11 0 per cent ol thy budgn. tlhe largest allocation to any other -Ministry excep the Mmrastry
ol Financo .tinl Planning. hi addition to public funding for oducation atuf trainigl-. the
Govrunment intinds to attract private sector support, so A;gage the people in thc stronxcst
ptssibic pa2rncrship for devlopinmnt through education and traininig. This pallousrhill s
based un the rcognition thliti is lthe reLumn Ot invesituent in the building oCr iit mian anld
isvial capital that repstnits owu best hope for eonotimic growth axd social weMll-h:ug, qh,
major requirentcnls for an improvcd aixd suitable cluality of lifc in Jamaica.
- 73 -



21 1 lt  is-tIS at OWi  EU' 011 4I /IIood level (O}-5 yearS) iS tLhe expaniofl of |rlt)lient atld
improvecIctrrl   (tuality withl .r Commiitmenlt made t1ir the provision or' a least ofic 11Irined
teacher at evcrv b.>asic slwoo wiltitl iiv: years, At tthe jwhaivn l^i el, 1W   limWi,}11 ir ilt t .Wse
the nunth;t of studens prqpmred  to access s"ihnary  tvevl editucatiol3S                    4I
cinoijmcot  at this level is 9&) per  cnl. eCnp1rbi  I'is  of) (n >hancing 4uulity: lVvIsioin 01
curricula,  ,siablishmnt of I;ibrarics, improving  physical facielics. a3id  retention anil
renl(liatioun at Grade 4, to t.3SLitc tihat pupils at this level itar  flunctionally lilcralte aInd
nurncrale and prepared or lic1 sccoodary level,
2  At the sccondadrvs levcl  trpasls is oil ctuiLy aml access. 'l hie intotjiion is to provide * vcars
of sc4tuda7ry education lbt all students enLering (iradle 7 in 2{)03 asi thereatfcr. Al tOe
wiri(rmv Icvc]. while increasimr, t(ire crimilment'l rate to i5,0 per ecern by 200), focujs will he on
provkidin,, students withi ctImptencies wlhich arc relevait to ffte Ilneeds of a Uyilvaimic
enlvironmen1t. fIn lilI row1 wt-.Ji.'; caicgory, er;;lphai3 wisvl)l iJe o11 pwtv3dirrr  reedoialt .arid ph"
%Acational imining, Particularvl i'o- young itmen. A trainiig p1rotramime targetted .i mti; oimu-
of sckhool youth, and 4t11ill t3  rC-irte.tratc  iem  oItto the' fOmllA  edueartnii 5ySic. ro
>belrdulcd to he itiplcnretrlct "-itlin the text three vrWs.  Iartncr5imps WiIll ho m'mullt \vlfli
N(;Os vvho Nvork witlh thi-s L,,rotip of yowig PQopCe.
23. Hlcalth indirators have rcmiamtund relatfivey stablc taid the populatioln's lhL.altlh  stauts rill
tonipares faiourtbVly Wihll lticr CaribbeKn cotlries.  'I'liw  Gvernment wi1l cotttinutec to)
pursue the vision tf lloJatl?h kr AlJ, ihrosugh Jittegratiug lwrimary anid sccondaty StrVices. and
through the protiiotiort offi ealthy hchaviour. The health sctor c nlprss ca iubliJprivare
nul.k  wi3il substanual (1 nrco   lhkinrms frorn Non-overosinnilt Organisrtions   (N(3Os) itdtt
reflects tirc (overnmerlln's expresscd desirc or ta parnwrship approach in healthl di\ncry
Ihe privatw sector has grown, l7ui accounts for the brgesa pinriain of health expenrditures i
ambulatory. diagnosmtc, and phlariuaccutieal scrvices, The public thcalth seeLtor continues to
bes the major provider of iiipaLtient scrviccs. It is recognised ilat sutbstartial frianciun  gap.S,
which halve constrained thle dclivciv or all tlhe health care services, will have toi be ad-lkroiss
vvith some mi_gcy. (Cosi reiox cry lthrough IS,,er Ce xS  ildl comtinue;'1 il1 levels.
24. A d  ceniralisd Admintisiratinv  s(ructure has been intrIuced;xi: Reg ional I tealtir ALUitirmle,:.
are: Inanaged by Regional ltcrrtis ol' Directorsm while the Mirtistry or lcatilt's heal oflic.
identifies national priorilici. toais and targtss  establishes standarms anl rc rttet, ons. and
t3rovides policy guidelncs,  Fratymncntafioi andi Jtiplicatton of scrvic" au  cxpecct(l tu
dccrcasc utnider the Regional IlCilih Authorities Iitrough thet 1fill inlegratioin  rl' JrWttIIf
secondary. crtl:ary, amd untiaul hoalth care ser% ices aridi prograrnmes.
2   In ils eflfor ILI reduce incquatli  and im1prove access to hcalth cae tIr el Ministry off I leal Ikiah
osver the last foiur anfd a tiafl years, hecti d:veloping a suitablc methoLdloIogy 3;3
implemcnting a Nahional sIfallth 1ilsurince Pllan       Resource constraint   bave  ted t o;
dccisiont tO litttW0dtiCc tbli' Pltal iti Ph1uA; lhc lCist phawil  will bk  a National i ltklh FUnILI It
lt)tU^i.idi( pcslritioli  nCedi(ctiJi4.1 at greatly icdulde( CoLIs IiSi all pCisons witth a itwidu limi: ot
Specii(l ttchronic 4hscases
- 74 -



Refoms tfor National Security and Justice
2) 'T'lhe Ministry ol'National cetriiy and Jutice (MNSJ) has atopti.td as inwcgratc irlippitaclh to
RiihtitnM crime ad viokatC'  Isn thai ed Ihe Minairy lia~'started to} devekW plublic Jorr
prograrncms witlh other Ministrics having critical roles to play (rratslwort tnd Wtks, LtKal
Govetnmient and Conmiunivy I>cvclop wni; Education, Youth and Chilrtire).
2.  The Jamaica cotl:rabulary F(Acc (JCP' is to contiillue to  u,t; crimle by dcccnlrdlisitBg ws
Oper~UQOat I ar i     enzitncir, Iintllilgsca. placing gIutrer reliuncc on foretsic cevidiocc. <cg.
DNA. ar:  nprovinlg its iil%':stigalivc capabililies.   Ihe JTF is to tocus hlicaviy on
community policing to inpro,nn; ils rclat;unship wtith  itizews nstki dingisliglai crime prtCfntlxl,.
'I-hc Janiaica Del;nce Fo:ce (Itlc urnnyl will ilicri'suilgly ciaitrhittle to rwutional deiopmenilt.
winlle provi4ing .i suppottin  e crimi-fhtirlng role t)t thze Cl`.
in ttitXs ol' d3rug prvellowl and abuse. the Giveninent.11l, with assisiacc  1'rttth i'
Io)Asv'1)A. iS updati _g its National Aiti-dtrag lPlan (NADP) ior the five y        2ar 1 2t14 (I
2006, Tog,cith,cr, the priv'itt. ind public swr-s. andi civil society will evaluate the c.xisug
-;ystc,1  wtith rcspect to d4eimi rcduiAon at-a Cntrol mnasurcs.  In additiont.  Ircals lot,
dcs chopt ncI, lows of action. mnd policis will tic i&aetified. relateAt  siratetUis wvill he
outhIiIet. lioraIIinnes aitnd projecis prc  sed1: inancing xtritegtes will be djailed a-d
cVaiuiill mcihlO;i  l9lnes will he  V imeded.
Social SaFetv Net (SSN) Refrnrm
>'i.  ;SN prograninws are deli-ecd broadly as those wbiuh provide inconte stsppwl and acess to
s crviCeS hy thc' p;oor and needy andVor clos requiring assistancc uflur economic dowuittrins.
nattiral dtsasiors. or housellol4lspVcific adverse cvents thai lower incomc. lixisting sialul
safcly nct provisions itncludc. dit incollie supporcI school-bascd welfare for fleding, fix-,.
hooks, sihos and unilrnts; -moniniunily-bascd pIgranirnes; labour miiarket iutmventions.
inedicalionS; itidigetl liousitw, tinati asSistance for micro-investment; andj assisanvce to
'NGO2s wIhich srco the b^,):
its T'he Gal c.tt ied otit Atn aw mslvs (If eXiSlilng SSN jttigtsttcs nll d iMUdltified IVeral  1411o
Sh)r1COmingS. lXnadcNuale trguelitit mcihanisms have lcd to a situatkn in whitchi nian  oh
the most ncedy arc ,xcludedl (rom benefrts and undeserving recipients arc intludled. Svcral
types of beucitits are paid andil- on avcragi. hetlfits arc low (transfers range frojim JS75A}t
monllthly tiM  Food Stamps ('Or Children 0-0 years to J$24(1,(J  a monih for Poor Rdlicl
rccipiemts). L)clivery is frugmentled. there is duplication Mn] lacGI of timeliness int dlivcry.
and udinnisu-ation costs arc h4ilh. Trhe social sector rcfonr  proposals dwere dlineLd in a
policy nuitrix approved in liprnciple in July 2000tJ with the unuerstanding that, sarting in
i1scal 2tXOl!ti2. priority woIdki be givci to tht; reftimt ageula. 'Ilie pxlicy matrix was the
sub"jot of Comliunislity   ioultttns fr inorutmion,. e;onysdcration, Jmnd inpt*It; t1e vViarat
theniz was tth itmporEant ro' oltiie conmmunity working, in parnership with  erwvnittni it)
ineet the nesads of the vulnerabtle
i. t is proposed that a rctloincd SSN be a permanenit eluenst of social policy witih built in
ilexibility to rospond to chasigcs in the levels aidi types of needs as dictated by the economy
asnd the widLr environnlect. It will addiess risks and  ssues oi' the different lire stages a%k
- 75 -



w ASt us tboK whiCh tnW KV IAX l ae 4 rU1pS ait will sp6iktlly r   1t  dimnwullv
poor arud vu;lnerable_.
.32. HseI o(n aInalyss or tiW mlajo t&)ia issues, groupt presenily a  risk i'Or poverty, andX1 ih1
content aind scop of extisiing ilgramrrrs, thC SNN rcDi'ntl rocuss Ull'
: isthnaivcly pro-lpor pmgr'Immes. itsing a  culrdSgiicd t%euirg inThiUhn_nR i_,
icakage orh(crielii O.dl jrwietsid heutcr  vcrag  tir tile needy
hItteration ol the range of blnellks to addrcss the risks asstciatcd with diferenit Condition.tso
povertyivulocrability ovecr tile various life stags of the poor, and wi incretabett tkevl of
hialefits
Consoliated. ratiolWiscd aind integrated progrAma;i., antt scrvicc% led by a single welfre
ageticy bil3 itivolvi;n othur sL'uwer ageinces and using Appropriate ted nology ikr pr%vssi1ng.
payment and r-ecard keeping. io ;itlprvc tinieliness of &elivery
I'conomny. el0iiesiecy and fiqc.aif sust.-;inability - doing mrtore wVit lessc achicved 1y clitnminuatin
mmrginal programmes, csrtlmittaills andt modifyint 0t11rs. divestlent of sorie ser iceS, and
forging straie4ic alliancms pjaicularly with NCOs
Floxibilitzvadapahiilily uItIii i set tofore clemelils whilch aurc casiiy seaIlcx f Lp or douit itL
relect demantd , anid wilh a stIotsig Inolitoring systemn lo track betneficiories atid rcuinv c tlhe:li
fih*nl rocipmn  sl tss iW> hiit lo  .moly Or IrtIcir status improve.
3. Sp.ctxiically. IIIL rforinis ofiU the SSN iIIVolve ShOrt tWril anld IIedLHiUil1 t  nlt   3j S 
t;iDlows:
Shi2U 1S31.-
I  SimUfing in October 20tHi, itntroduction of an objective atd transparent nicclUmism lor
better targetting, to identity household-aindlividuals who receive bWfit.. .
target3ing/scoring Ioniwula lias ben deeloleI as part of the ppradrlion activities iol
the proposed SSN  refunn pr)ojct with tho Batk ari will be uscd to selec thl
h:4wrICiur;: it) rwcVIVv poymcn"t.
To  mitrnnis; delivety costs, improve udmnitirative cUifcicncy, aXd  :eloutcte
dluplication. thfre   inastin  programmes (food anid kcxnue stanp. ptiblic assistaiLw.
annd poor rclicf) will be itciged intno oe inonic transfer under a inilictd Vtene11t
Program ,nc starting wilth a 6n-month pi1o plum targeliug atout 34 lA?) befie:iurns
in onc parish in Jantwjry 2002, an expeling to reacth atmut 236,00 boncticiaries in
all 13 parishes by the  ithir  year of the prograne, this will i volve thv gaidual
phasing out of the ex isti ug programmucs ovor tbe poriod Junte 202 io M areh 200311.
3. Ilmasing the Value U4:  i h  bvllofits to a nior' realistic level, taking iiLo consideratioi
Ihe erosioJ7 or purchasing power of existing bencfits whih has occurrad bocause of
inflation, the privatv vo-sts of obtning halth and education among the poor. ant thec
capacity of the tIifFr l 6tietw to absorl tdie ;ncnIt^'Sc'
- 76 -



4. li'ec2lits unider   etic (;ilied  ikzwfilt Inorainetr  will hw  ciodtional twin  iic
itdltaunticu lilt 0-5 yvai Ulls,; reFuir schno a  Kttennce anmoig the 6 to i? Vajs olds
-an  regular clinic visiu, f'i the other cateiwics or teneficiarics. A  winaim  *vill
he intodueWd pciietly to mwnior progres of tic delivery an1d conpliamie with
condiutiots. anJ to li; vah   the  impact of the lijnikag  of trdnsfe.S it allendlanet: aU
caltlih facititics anid swools: the results of this ptwi:LSS will provide  ihl  ustitiicatioji
br oihnuo  supploil troini il Bank. during tih- Ntcriod vf tlc pro~pobd Wanl.
5. Siartitig itn 2(0KW(Ji2 ;uti conlinuuing a(t tle ti nil ?(1t1.04  *xni1*l'imli  a1bi.
cducatHti/ticiptlion w progrnlic tk  inlvolve all play.rs; atul stk.eholtlers in
Irnmulation of stra-eici tos rshaipo and imptcrlont Ihe reformed SSN.
6 n .Enatincri of a Chikl C',rc sad  rltAcclior Act isn N(A. to bringS Jmntawica titnisu iii linc
with ihL. principlcs ol' dw nittntational Cotivtntioo o  it 1T Riglts of tile Cliild
A plaesd iniplenuatatiion if the National I Latli ldiIfrtu e Plain, start1toi in fit 2  nit
witi a National ficalli l undl to provide prescriplion medication al greatly frMtlued
coist ifi all persons with a wite range ofspeiezttd eironic diseases.
Mtsitimt} lter
S. L;Vaiun o11 to,lh  Stih,ol ]'CdIng1  Ilgr}anlilne Wilth  i VIeW  js r;41ili-VAItII. 4tsld
ideifyify   tialtorn3live methods to pnxhctu  aindl deliver  i:iwol lfoeidig from ihl  pre.
school to the seconldary levO' and OFotrihUtb  it) increased covnirge iuali ;diulol
attendance; studsic    i nw  heing conduteci will providc tlhe bascs i, chanpo and
r tnimmend an implrnipk ntation horizon.
9'.  .Pplying the tar3ctultl  nil  :haitinii to the p-lVistson of educationial betel'iks suci ws
school fevding and a;&istlicu with schoo wad examtinrAtioni fces at all helecl. 1I1jS will
he implIcteted on a plh;ased basis. starting itn fiscal yea 2003104. ahier the rewults ol'
ith swt,ing fonrmoa n tite Wkoik's SSN project h3avc bn cwateldw aMd adjusted.
I. F-valuation of the ;Scn l anti dEconomic Suppon Programme during 212t)3. to
i(Wntify the aras of diuplication with existing prograri1es such as thc assistatice with
schtol anld ex aminaltioir fies and tie Joniaieta Soti:.  I nv%strnt;  unI ut, el  tmafsing an)
ttuphrcaloIws fitbr. atd  rc-focussing  o-n  imafl cniomunity  developmenit and
cnlergency activiilsc, It iltainilain equity aul Lrtnltsparency, bciefilciaries will also hc
i*ntilied tirgttgil sti t(f l icoring trniulb,
I    ^I Evaluation of tic exs:nence ol the Lift Ullp .1aXlamate  pn-jLCt durii?i 2(Xy4J., anld
incorporation  of tlib   l)b"t fracticc  entering  to  youtl.-al-risk  Info  the Ytt4ill
ve1topnioent projixt hiieV develtir,ned for financinig by tlhe ll 1.
12. Modification  of clSibililty  critera  for Drugs for tlw' Fl&-rly  and  O)rigScri
programnivet to recovo- a gruater portion or tite coas fronm noet-poomr he,ficiarics ant
fulier reducc thec cmt to) thos idwti;iod by the argeting ineeasoin.to conicitt
witl thlic inplentation tiof tl  Nationial I Icaki Funidl.
- 77 -



13   1 Io vtdc  *,   i   ni +  in d  Icehr  at eao70  hbaSic sic lt.o ;ih*n  S   y s   iraei
_0ft(i l  vas part ofi a1k: CommitnIn. ko i       vPfOVe (tie quality of I.ar1y (on,JJhoU,
14~ TO Impliumul g ort~tilw r t~t Alto for Pie IIv yuq's 2,j(12 to 2W)(,ac lw  , 1n relc1,m
5}' cOn1 o     ' i  XpaLl of tIllV/AIDS o) the econoy;ly  enbis  will be ou
prevcntitin (cspti-iqy  of p4Cdialric AIDS) survOlMoJ4#w&, mideimiohvi    autl rQCSjI Cl
Policy a*lVOCU'y, a4ld tivl and humzini  right1s.
34. Mo,tosin~an~ C  lation  a the ocrz,lI cial 4jCc4or r 1,filr  Will eud   icia 
an ll lvraiollal lavcK ' it (GoP s I luman) Rcsout".s. Council. a st&( ommilt'   >b. i' t.
will  onllutorto cosurc thal die liolicy reformits ar beinlg ifliPlOlUamccd. anl willh re tprcdt 
du;ilc oan po3licy adjustlneJlls idkentiicdi  Thc Pl'icy Rcview, 1)nii   tidwe Office orI th 1rittw
Mwiswr wvi)) have  utnbrOla" resqxonsibility for ot'fbrn,ajwC rcvitc, 'Trie phum4ifn   IISII)II)
of  uamaica will continuiec   ti mll.tint(litte poly  raclareh, nt3siasl5  cltuillon  adi
Jd,evAJolor7n II ptsS Which itkltiry tlue ncLxi folr potriry  itjltoiwint's and to} mjkA; (iudc
r~cewn nzltt,i,sl (ir COIISIde;Ltznm. nth  Janisaie,, Siurvey 0o '1.vin; Cionijiion}:. wJil psros'i i
tlvaIblahl inlo'itj004f Iw utit poverItVy and prowammo alysi&
F4i"naning tbe SSN lReforxn
N., OIrning   the t.xptccd pcriodl ofl w Project (Ociuhi,i' 20I) to  'picnuiwl 2i$hS     )  1  x l l
Itrvid. ovcrall, about 48)2 1-wir cjtnit of ttib estimatcd tUSS77,4 willion itunacing reqpiwd tn
ii~Snpkztn   thc z    l l i s    av tv  SWapr'AamrC tr wh7 ci3v   t)he Bank will prov id4e 1onl
fnils   Thhs fCiancing wll i  rcase  tle mllonthly Va1w nif' otbenlils fi-ot 1 a rwtg   of bvltk.'enIt
p.iijo to S240.0; (dqvaShti;Pg (ml lth  eatto}try  at pnt. t a monthly $2300) fOr all
juteg-wrim  in 2002. a 50   pe' cntl  ctrcasc to S375A)0 iin 2003, Atd a M3A0 Ier cctut mct<ctc   it
;5t1Xj.0)   on:o}thly  i  2(104    ti<eod   tih   2(904f5 tiwew  yeai'. t e G o) w6l h11 'Sole',.
rl:snsiblal  f'or fiXtIaneitig t}he p:ro  minem. Sub SWuLII r;views Of cost o(in )vtg   t"We"ise
will irtfintil dmisions oln tlk   kvl ol- badgcixtary  dju&WtUnct requirid to 1aUnUithel rthe
vaiJac of the henctits.
3I.  t. base tIvir dewnningi;n, I1we bnctWl, levels was the eStitm)adte   %;or   oif hie Rt)A ot  Is.w
loods.  This wevel was Chosen in keeping  with thi  ocrnineaiOn of fitsiaaeda. c'1 itI
4 1999)9 tht tihg V4lfC of rhc lra)ltCer should be approxilluly 40) per cetnt ul' :thve eOM  1 f htt
biasic feo(d hasket. The *.0A pTr cnt r ct  th  provisin Cr 40Je tvrre&t'citce tuak xt".1< 
11ur,eitv rzquu'iremcnlis atr  ,ilteuraly higher than those of other houschold niembers   the
bneftl lels ea ,t  for 1ie 4,    (inepi/ cc ofintlation) wortd  lI at JiSl)2.tIj et
tIlolltn   in year I . J$302,tjO    rt" onh  ii ye>  2. amdl 1%S43(2,1 0 t yar 3.  'o reflect  >
cmrnitmeat ito make te btowilaeth  mre paLaniij&jtl.     the level for ycar I vwas set a3 3 aOi wlc'
ce11ti higer {thnhat catlkcae. T11h  levels FoIr years 2 antd 3 were adjusted byy bcow-cn  If)t"
and} 5o.2R pr Cxain in keeping with cest matd budget capcitly.
i t . l-inauca , sof t)w J Ulifictk litictil ig t tih fitst    a JStics *     plai  iitcreases iii Si)1Sit' on
key SSN  progam ete, vllics tit  G        tllS  lo fince  y   dit de bt stIifltn   t .
increased revenue injlow%s a, a result of improvedt adinuitstrattion  and collectioi lrIgics.
ain1  ulsed4l troh inl (W)1'. (Xwnlxplecncntary to d]R bttivS (N r t;lalcits. wk'ill te It'
10
- 78-



aIliwation st ,'rtacSs  dctiti14 ;,s t'casible as a cois  U:iee ol pariiel reviws and S4ttdiS zs
'Xiisti%  SS'N programnws (~.S  ,iicliurn Wrrn at;vitics dCSCic  ft  p          tpi
ObIher Finaneeial and Tec4hnies Assgitanee
ii ~ ~ ~ ~ iI iilul.+@. Wll   W-I|'4'Xt         Ow  mqi'   uliml 1Ow  your loanl, Ith%Q  tlx-i% lgriAmcr:L)
1Devieeopnieit Ba'ik, hias hbvit prtcw sinig a reqtetst for a US$40.0 tillitiisixtar htsif   ood
aibout 1 S$SI.2  iti1tkn rit tc1I1iiiwl voopemrion iuiuls.. PThi.  finuin  will he?p to prtotvc.t _ Aiwm
safcty  nct spenldiua   duriosig fhi, priod of strontg  tiScad adjustmCnt. aiid t1x61itaw  tfhic
rn,vruwturII- and be h  acr gtatgt m   of pecific OiSil:  snwt pnograninmicsD t)iti SaupuiX   dI tic
pirvitidc  rif r rms ktt5   dw  " sits   Fdini ng1 rogranimme attd tic                  Schoodaiv vclIol F.cv
Assistantce (rog -iiiinnc; ttsi impnmve thc iargctt6i.g  (' 'grants lo tiasic  tiloo,ik. aad I to 1111t1-s 
ttihc i1nitoriinl .aId cvaluation (i Ilit. SSN.
C'.     ('oacIui srn
.'). Jamaica hias Ititad  signitfiutut jroggcss tit ad4risstitl ig ih uis rcsuhltl  fhi ni 1twt Ji:e  iIU
tncr~o-ornoic stiructural r. l`0rmne. as Well 1tS refOrMft oF 1the %ocilt set4rnt  Al; i'*sd.*1 tts
ttis  1.1cr  t1i: Ck)VmrUmt lL.11m its           tisaktittito g suk stantiataz l ftlirher ptgrvss iu f wivitl
tcas. Tht; pubey atnd proccidlut    changes ito hLe implemented during the  exit tlhrue v:u-s.
s0outl stren,tBhen the sotu:lness ol thc soCial siCC oi and trlevut;ee of the social &afvty uet
T he Jaatcnl Govemnmol Mitsevas that the Worlid I4iitk's sassislumcc will bizi tegral it) dxe
s-ucct,SS ol thel propost;i progr;xm
Si ib enJ y.
Oramr Davies
llinM,ter of Fitiance and Phlanitjg
- 79 -






-25    8155 U.S.A\.J800 c    7        70                  77030                            77 000'                          76030'
BAHAlt4AS                           Elevations:J 
HA M,AS      -t 900i   Feet         Meters                  JA  MI A  ICA                                      t9,0
ME   0         CUBA                 DOMINICAN          5908            1800                 Main Arterial Roads       o           Selected Towns
2     CA R16SEAN            HA                        2954           900                  Main Secondary Roads            @    Parish Capitals
BELIZE      JAMAICA                                    477           450                  Main Ports                            National Capital
IInternationalInternational Airports                                                               Parish Boundaries
IjONDURAGA Boundaries  1500                                           0                    Region Boundaries                     County Boundaries
SALX#2R NICRAGUA 80              700
oV  185  180     l l 0
78000                      CA RIBBEA IV
CORNWALL                                         i;0
-1830'ALMOUTH                                  j MNE                                            T   A4      ' SEA    1830'0
L0 10   20    30    40    50 KILOMETERS                    S E  A 
0        10        20        30  MLES
cm                  ~~~~~78'00'                      77030'                           77 000                          78030' 



