Report No. PID9656
Project Name                     JAMAICA-Social Safety Net Project    @
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Social Assistance
Project ID                       JMPE67774
Borrower(s)                      JAMAICA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND
SOCIAL SECURITY
Address: 14 National Heroes Circle
Kingston 4
Jamaica
Contact Person: Mr. Alvin McIntosh,
Permanent Secretary
Tel: (876) 922-4207
Fax: (876) 924-9639
Email:mlss@netcom-jm.com
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 6, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         June 18, 2001
Projected Board Date             September 4, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Declining Growth: Threat to Recent Improvements in Poverty Jamaica has
been experiencing a difficult phase of low or negative economic growth,
caused mainly by external shocks, the impact of a tight monetary policy
adopted in 1995, and a continuing financial sector crisis. Although
inflation has been reduced significantly from around 80 percent in 1991 to
about 8 percent in 1999, GDP declined in real terms about 4 percent per
year between FY 94/95 and FY 98/99. Accompanying this decline, Jamaica has
experienced large fiscal deficits over the last five years due to a long
term accumulation of outstanding debt, and more recently, the Government's
bail out of large indebted banks during a financial crisis in 1997. These
deficits averaged around 6 percent of GDP in the latter half of the 1990s
and declined to 4 percent in FY1999/2000. At present, 62 percent of
central government's budget is spent on interest and redemption payments.
In order to balance the budget and curb the adverse debt dynamics fueled
by the deficit, the government has committed itself to a further reduction
in the fiscal deficit. As a signal of its commitment to this policy, the
GOJ agreed on a Staff Monitored Program (SMP) with the IMF, one component
of which is the strengthening of the SSN in order to protect the poor
during this transition period. Despite negative growth during most of the
period since 1995, many of the country's social indicators are still good
and recent trends indicate declining poverty. In 1991, 44 percent of the
population was poor (as defined by the poverty line) as compared to 17
percent in 1999. The forces which have worked to lower poverty during a
period of sustained recession remain poorly understood and in need of
rigorous investigation, but are attributed in part to the effects of



migration, remittances from abroad, and informal sector activities.
However, these factors were also present prior to 1991, underscoring the
importance of further research into the causes of the decline of poverty
in the 1990s.Even though poverty did decline, the decline tapered off in
1997/1998 and in 1999/2000 poverty increased slightly. The challenge for
the Government now lies in maintaining the achievements in poverty
reduction. In addition, there are serious concerns relating to income and
non-income dimensions of poverty and inequality. In Jamaica, the poor have
disproportionately low access to quality educational opportunities, and
are more exposed to violence. Perhaps more significantly, their age
distribution -- almost half of the poor are under 18 and a further 10
percent are over 65 -- limits household strategies, making the need for
effective and well-targeted social assistance programs critical. Poverty
is overwhelmingly rural in character, with nearly 80 percent of the poor
living in rural areas and less than 10 percent in the Kingston
Metropolitan area. However, there are heavy concentrations of poor
households in the violence torn inner city areas of Kingston. Although
women head only 44 percent of Jamaican households, 66 percent of poor
households are female-headed. Poor households are large, with 40 percent
of poor families having six or more members and nearly one-fifth with 8 or
more members. Sound health and education policies together with a well
designed, targeted safety net are urgently needed to alleviate living
conditions particularly for the poorest and most vulnerable groups.I. Main
Sector IssuesJamaica's Social Safety Net: Need for ReformExpenditures on
the social safety net. Jamaica has made a continuing commitment to the
social sectors and, despite increasing resource constraints, real
allocations to health and education have increased in recent years. The
Government invested 6.2 percent of GDP in education and 2.5 percent in
health (FY 2000/01), a considerable allocation compared to other
middle-income countries in the region. However, expenditures on the social
safety net programs - defined broadly to include programs that provide
income support and access to basic services to the poor and vulnerable
and/or those needing assistance after economic downturns, natural
disasters, or household-specific adverse events that lower income -
accounted for only 2.6 percent of GDP in FY2000/01 or approximately
US$78.4 million per year. This is well below the average in the Latin
America and the Caribbean (LAC) region where expenditures on SSN range
from a high of almost 9 percent in Chile to a low of 0.7 percent in
Haiti. Array of programs and lack of coordination. In addition to the
comparatively low budget allocations to the social safety net, the modest
amount is spent on an array of programs. The Government operates over
twenty social safety net programs targeted to persons who are poor and/or
vulnerable. At present, there are three income support programs, four
education based transfer programs, two pharmaceutical programs, two
feeding programs, three housing programs, three community-based safety net
programs including a social fund, a variety of community based training
programs and other (minor) programs. An overview of the main SSN
programs, their beneficiaries and budgets for 2000/01 is provided in annex
11. Duplication of administrative systems and a lack of coordination
increases both the direct costs of programs and the indirect costs to
beneficiaries. Insufficient targeting and coverage. A recent assessment
of Jamaica's social safety net revealed that it is not well targeted to
the poor. Means testing criteria and procedures differ for the different
programs despite the fact that many of them seek to reach the same
population. Some programs are not targeted to the poor. Despite a large
-2 -



number of programs, the existing safety net has a low coverage of the
poor. Formal social insurance systems like the national pension system is
limited to those with formal sector employment who have made
contributions, excluding the majority of the elderly who do not have a
contribution history. The biggest safety net program in Jamaica, the Food
Stamp Program, provides benefits to approximately 170,000 individuals, but
only reaches 15 percent of the poorest quintile, and 9 percent of the
second poorest quintile. The Poor Relief Program reaches between 5 and 7
percent of households in the poorest quintile. While these programs are
progressive in the distribution of benefits (largely due to the low level
of benefits), there is still significant leakage. In the Food Stamp
Program, for example, approximately one third of beneficiaries come from
the three richest per capita household consumption quintiles. A high
proportion of the poor appear to be unaware of the range of benefits
available or unable to afford the direct and indirect costs (travel, time,
etc.) to obtain benefits.Low level of benefits. Finally, Jamaica's social
safety net programs provide beneficiaries with a very low level of
benefits that does not adequately protect the poor. The Food Stamp
program pays approximately US$1.88 per child per month - only 1.2 percent
of the basic food basket. The average monthly Poor Relief and Public
Assistance benefits - mainly targeted towards elderly and disabled persons
are slightly higher at US$4 per person, but benefits are strictly
rationed, coverage is low and eligibility criteria are not employed
rigorously. The per capita value of all three transfers combined adds up
to about 10 percent of the overall poverty line in Jamaica. The low level
of benefits contributes to the high proportion of poor not applying for
the benefit. Education and Health: Disadvantages of the PoorFavorable
Social Indicators. Jamaica has made impressive progress in providing
universal coverage in primary school enrollment and near universal
coverage in junior secondary education (grades 7-9). Gender equity in
access to education has been achieved. Furthermore, Jamaica was a pioneer
in the development of primary health care. As a result, its social
indicators are favorable compared to most countries at similar income
levels in the region as reflected in the low infant mortality, high school
enrollment rates, and long life expectancy. Persistent low school
attendance. The social indicators mask a significant lack of access to
education for the poor. Although they are enrolled, children (and
particularly poor children) do not attend school regularly. In 1999, 35
percent of children from families of the poorest quintile attended school
less than 15 days per month. The main reason given by poor families for
school absence was "money problems". A primary coping strategy among
families that are poor is to keep children home from school when money is
short. Poor educational quality and low school attendance, particularly
in schools in inner-cities and rural areas, combine for poor
results--approximately 30 percent of 6th grade students are functionally
illiterate. In addition, enrollment corresponds to economic status in
upper secondary (grades 10 and 11) and tertiary education. At ages 15-16,
enrollment rates among children from the poorest quintile fall to 67
percent, against a national average of 83 percent and 94 percent of the
children from the wealthiest quintile. This gap between poor and non-poor
widens further with age. Only 21 percent of children aged 17-19 from the
poorest quintile are enrolled in school, as compared to 87 percent of the
wealthiest quintile. The IDB and USAID are supporting primary education
programs to improve the quality of primary education. The World Bank is
providing funding, through its Reform of Secondary Education Project, for
-3 -



initiatives to improve access to and quality of secondary
education.Declining health indicators. There are increasing problems in
maintaining health indicators. Immunization rates among infants from
birth to eleven months are down from 93 percent in 1993 to 85 percent in
1999. Although most children are eventually immunized by the time they
start primary school at age 6, the late receipt of vaccinations increases
the risk of preventable illnesses. Increasing problems with prenatal care
parallels the decline in on-time immunizations. Only 25 percent of
mothers have their first prenatal visit during the first four months of
pregnancy. Anemia in pregnancy affects approximately 50 percent of all
pregnant women and is a contributing factor to the persistent incidence
(10 percent) of low birth weight babies. The elderly have the highest
rates of self-reported illness, of being ill for a longer duration of time
and of decreased ability to carry out activities of daily living. At the
same time, the elderly - and especially the elderly poor - are less likely
than the general population to be covered by health insurance and more
likely to need medical care. Changing family structure and increased
migration have augmented the risk of social isolation and loss of or
abandonment by relatives. Almost 10 percent of the poor are elderly. The
1991 Census data reported that approximately 5 percent of the population
is disabled. Although not all disabled persons are poor, inequities in
access to education, training and employment increase the risk of poverty
among the disabled. II. Government StrategyJamaica's most recent Poverty
Eradication Strategy is summarized in Ministry Paper #13, signed by the
Prime Minister in 1997, which sets broad guidelines for programming in
this area. Key features of the strategy include a focus on more
development oriented programs that especially target families with small
children and youth, better overall targeting of programs, and
rationalization to increase cost effectiveness where possible. In
recognition of the serious weaknesses in the social safety net, Cabinet
asked the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ) and the Office of the Prime
Minister (OPM) in 1998 to take the lead in developing a comprehensive
reform proposal for the social safety net including a suitable process to
address the Government's concern about the SSN shortcomings. The objective
of the reform proposal was defined as "developing a well-crafted
integrated safety net program aimed at empowering the poor and vulnerable
to achieve and maintain a satisfactory living standard. Such a program
should be effective, efficient and participatory." The complexity of the
assignment to improve both the effectiveness and efficiency of the SSN
prompted the PIOJ to invite the World Bank and the IDB to engage in a
collaborative process to develop a SSN reform proposal (for more detail on
the reform process supported by the Bank, see section D4). Five objectives
for the SSN reform were defined a priori: (i) to tailor programs more
specifically to risks and conditions associated with poverty and
vulnerability and to develop an associated targeting mechanism; (ii) to
integrate programs in order to reduce delivery costs; (iii) to ensure a
comprehensive range of benefits to address different conditions (including
age-specific factors) associated with poverty and vulnerability; (iv) to
introduce flexibility in programs (for up- or down-scaling as needed); and
(v) to ensure efficiency and fiscal sustainability of programs, notably by
maximizing complementarity and partnerships with Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs). Government has identified the following as target
groups of the overall reform: children in poverty, youth at risk, the
elderly poor, the disabled, poor single-parent households; large poor
(rural) families; the long-term unemployed; and victims of social or
- 4 -



natural disaster or HIV/AIDS. Special priority is to be given to children
and youth.As a result of the collaborative process, Government developed a
sector-wide approach for the SSN reform, encompassing all existing
programs targeted to the poor. The proposal, approved by Cabinet,
addresses institutional, administrative, managerial and programmatic
changes. Among the key reform measures proposed is the development and
implementation of a universal targeting system based on a proxy means
test. The system is to be used by the main safety net programs in order
to increase transparency in the selection of beneficiaries, reduce the
administrative costs associated with having each program carry out its own
assessment of eligibility, and improve targeting. The proposal also calls
for the unification of the three cash/in-kind transfer programs into one
unified benefit, thereby reducing fragmentation and duplication.
Cost-savings are to be translated into a higher benefit level, in order to
improve the impact of the program on poverty levels. In addition to
restructuring the income support programs, the proposal also aims at
reforming the various school-based and other programs, improving their
targeting, efficiency and impact. Finally, the reform places emphasis on
the development of monitoring and evaluation systems for the various
programs, building on existing instruments, such as the yearly Survey of
Living Conditions.The GOJ's strategy to reform the social safety net, its
implementation plan and the respective targets will be detailed in a
Policy Letter, which is attached as an Annex to this PAD (See Annex 16).
2. Objectives
The proposed project will support the government's efforts to transform
the Social Safety Net (SSN) into a fiscally sound and more efficient
system of social assistance for the poor and vulnerable. Specifically, the
project seeks to provide better and more cost-effective social assistance
to the extreme poor. To this end, the project would: (a) consolidate
major income transfer programs into a Unified Benefit Program (UBP) that
ensures (i) a meaningful level of benefits, (ii) cost-efficient and
accessible delivery system, (iii) access to benefits linked to desirable
behavior changes for promoting investment in the human capital development
of the poor, especially children, and (iv) effective targeting of social
assistance to special groups; and (b) strengthen institutional capacity to
(i) operate the program efectively and efficiently, and (ii) implement
overall social safety net reform elements, including a transparent
targeting mechanism.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
This project is part of an overarching reform plan for the social safety
net in Jamaica. The World Bank's value added consists of:Transferring the
experience from similar projects (Mexico, Honduras, Colombia, Brazil,
Armenia, Russia) in project design and implementation;Technical Assistance
(through Japanese Grant funding) on the content and process of the SSN
reform and its implementation;Technical assistance on the targeting
mechanism and scoring formula;Monitoring and Evaluation and necessary
adjustments in the delivery mechanism;Coordination with other donors
(particularly IDB, DFID, EU and CIDA)
4. Description
The projects would support part of the comprehensive SSN reform agenda
developed by the Government of Jamaica. It would focus on the following
areas of the safety net reform agenda:(1) Child Assistance Grants
- 5 -



component. The first component (US$ 47.87 million) will finance
conditional grants for poor children age 0-17 eligible under the program
(see table 1). These grants will finance direct costs to keep poor
children in school and healthy. The receipt of benefits will be
conditioned on regular health clinic visits for children age 0-6 not
enrolled in school, as well as on school attendance for children age 6-17
(see details on conditions in Annex 2). Eligible and registered
beneficiaries will receive the grants for as long as they comply with the
agreed requirements. The benefit will be paid to the family representative
which in general would be the mother; in case the mother is not available,
the person taking care of the child would be determined as the family
representative. Payments will be made bimonthly with health and
educational conditionality compliance checked at least three times a
year. Based on the Government's decision to phase increases, the average
monthly benefit per person will be J$250 (approx. US$6) in the first year,
J$375 (approx. US$7.5) in the second, and J$500 (approx. US$9) during and
after the third year of program implementation. Table 1: Projected number
of children receiving transfersBeneficiaries of Child Assistance
TransfersChildren 0-6 (not enrolled in school), for health clinic
visits;   53,300Children 6-11, for primary school attendance
55,600Children 12-14, for lower secondary school attendance
27,400Children 15-17, for upper secondary school attendance     23,700Total
160,000(2) Social Assistance grants to Adults component. The second
component (US$ 16.94 million) will finance conditional grants to poor
pregnant/lactating mothers, elderly poor over 65, poor disabled and
destitute adults under 65 eligible under the program. The receipt of
benefits will be conditioned on regular health clinic visits for the adult
beneficiaries. This component will be financed entirely with Borrower's
counterpart funds as expressed in the project's cost table (see below).
The average monthly benefit per person will be the same as for the child
assistance transfer and increase accordingly over time. Table 2: Projected
number of adults receiving transferBeneficiaries of Adult Assistance
TransfersPregnant and lactating women       9,000Elderly poor over 65
26,700Poor disabled    15,300Adults under 65 poorest      6,000Total
57,000The selection of grant beneficiaries and the verification of
compliance with requirements of their receipt will be done in accordance
with procedures and criteria described in the Operations Manual.
(3) Institutional strengthening component. The third component (US$ 11.92
million) will strengthen the institutional capacity of the MLSS and others
involved to operate a streamlined and efficient social safety net in
Jamaica. To this end, it will provide support for:Targeting mechanism and
enrollment. (US$ 1.39 million). The bulk of this component will be spent
on the enrollment mechanism, including the necessary information
technology equipment and software, and to cover the cost of temporary
employees hired for data processing of applications. Additionally, this
component includes a small amount of technical assistance on the scoring
formula. A preliminary scoring formula based on data of the Survey of
Living Conditions has been developed for the targeting mechanism. However,
during the early years of program implementation, the scoring formula will
require periodic review and refinement. The project will provide for
local and international consultants and technical assistance for periodic
review of the targeting mechanism.Information System (US$ 1.28 million).
Appropriate information technology (hardware/software) will be introduced
to support efficient management of the program. The envisioned system will
require computer workstations in the parish offices, the ministry offices
- 6 -



and in the Computer Services Department. Appropriate training in handling
the system will be ensured.
Training and Promotion (US$ 3.01 million). This will help to strengthen
technical, administrative (e.g. procurement and financial management), and
social work capacity in the MLSS to implement the new Unified Program.
MLSS staff directly involved in the management and implementation of the
Program, and beneficiaries will receive training to ensure that they fully
understand their role, requirements and procedures defined for the new
program. Education and health staff will be trained in the rationale,
requirements and procedures of program implementation. In addition, a
public information campaign will be carried out aimed at creating
awareness of the Social Safety Net reform, among the general public,
potential beneficiaries, and other stakeholders (staff in the agencies
involved), focusing on the advantages expected from the unified benefit
program. The campaign is expected to last approximately 6-9 months.
Activities will be carried out through television, radio, and print media
(newspapers as well as posters, brochures, billboards, etc.). Project
Management (US$ 5.58 million), to finance the design and implementation of
the Unified Benefit Program. This includes financing of incremental
professional staff (at MLSS central office and 13 parish offices),
vehicles, and administration cost of the Implementation Unit. The
component costs furthermore include service fees, estimated to be US$ 1.61
million or 2.5% of the total amount of transfers, charged by financial
institutions in Jamaica to deliver the transfers to poor
families.Monitoring & Evaluation System (US$ 0.66 million) to measure the
outcomes and impact of the program. This will include a baseline survey,
regular beneficiary consultations, periodic operational audits, an MIS
system as well as an extenal evaluation of program outcomes (for details,
see annex 1).
5. Financing
Total                           ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                        37.5
IBRD                              40
Total Project Cost                77.5
6. Implementation
The Government of Jamaica as part of the Medium Term Economic and Social
Policy Framework, is committed to reform Jamaica's safety net to improve
targeting for the poor, relevance and effectiveness of welfare, and
related programs and efficiency in the delivery of services. The proposed
reform will involve, primarily, the Ministries of Labour and Social
Security, Local Government and Community Development, Health, and
Education. During project preparation, an institutional assessment was
carried out to identify pending issues related to the consolidation of the
existing transfer programs. Based on this assessment, under the leadership
of the Office of the Prime Minister, a Management Consulting firm has been
contracted to determine the institutional arrangements to deliver the
welfare benefits to the needy, and to make recommendations on the most
effective and efficient manner to deliver social assistance, including an
analysis of the legal implications of the proposed safety net reform. The
study will include an action plan and a time table to implement the
proposed changes. As part of the implementation strategy of the SSN
reform, the government has decided to establish a Unified Benefit Program,
under the MLSS, to replace three existing income transfer programs. The
-7 -



MLSS has had a long standing experience in the implementation of similar
programs (for example Food Stamp Program), and is currently adjusting its
institutional structure and management arrangements, to implement the new
program. A management study will be undertaken during the first year of
implementation of the UBP to develop the optimal organizational structure
for program implementation. The management study will assess
administrative, policy and planning capacity of the MLSS and identify
required adjustments to strengthen service delivery. The organizational
structure in the MLSS will be adjusted in accordance with the results of
this management study.At the Bank's request, the Government of Jamaica,
through the Attorney General's office, provided a legal opinion stating
that there are no legal impediments to giving recipients a single cash
payment under the three existing transfer programs. Executing
agencies:Ministry of Labour and Social Security (MLSS) and its 13 parish
offices at the local level (see annex 14), which are equipped and
motivated to initiate the program.Project management:Overall
responsibility for project management lies with the Director of the
Social Protection and Development (SPAD) division supported by the
Financial Management and MIS Divisions within the MLSS, for program
financial and procurement matters respectively.Procurement issues:Only a
small percentage of the loan would be used for procurement of goods and
services. Nevertheless, a procurement capacity assessment was carried out
during project preparation. According to the assessment, the MLSS is not
yet well enough equipped to carry out project procurement activities but,
based on this assessment, the Government agreed on a plan of actions to
strengthen its implementation capacity and has already taken important
actions, namely: (i) selected personnel with adequate capacity to carry
out procurement activities, and (ii) prepared a draft Procurement Manual.
The Bank will ensure that (i) training on Bank procurement methods and
procedures is provided, and (ii) technical assistance is provided for
major procurement activities (information technology, contract with
consulting firms etc.). In addition, regular procurement reviews will be
carried out as outlined in Annex 6.Financial management issues:During
project preparation, the Bank finalized its Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) of Jamaica. This assessment, which
concluded that the country's financial management framework was generally
sound, was taken into consideration when designing the FM arrangements for
the project. Based on the CFAA findings, and in response to Borrower's
desires, an effort was made to utilize existing government financial
management mechanisms whenever such mechanisms would not require
significant strengthening during the project's life. For example, it has
been decided by GOJ and accepted by the Bank that the Auditor General will
carry out the annual financial audits of the program. Project financial
management in Jamaica has been generally adequate, and has seen
improvements in recent years. Compliance with audit covenants has
sometimes not been achieved (reports being received in some cases many
months after the deadline), and disbursement applications have sometimes
not been sent on a regular and/or timely basis. These risks will be
mitigated by significant efforts to establish and build FM capacity prior
to the launching of the project. Still, regular (twice annual) financial
management reviews by Bank staff are considered necessary until such time
as the project has established a good record of financial/disbursements
reporting.
7. Sustainability
-8-



The sustainability of this project has to be analyzed from various angles:
(i) financial sustainability; (ii) sustainability of behavioral changes;
and (iii) sustainability of institutional strengthening.(i)     The proposed
project is intended to protect the human capital of the poor. During the
four-year project period, the World Bank will finance approximately
one-half of the costs of the safety net reform program, which includes not
only the new benefits, but also the institutional strengthening and
development. Already during the project years, the Government will have
to increase the budget allocations to the UBP. These allocations are
expected to be provided inter alia through reallocation of funds from
other, less effective or efficient SSN programs. The contributions of the
Government and World Bank are shown in the table on fiscal impact in
Section E.2.Furthermore, the IDB is planning to support the implementation
of the SSN reform through a sector loan conditional to the successful
introduction of the UBP, which would provide additional funds to the
Government of Jamaica. The total amount of counterpart funding necessary
during project implementation is US$ 37.5 million. After project
completion, the Government will take on the full responsibility for
financing the transfers. It is expected that by then, growth rates would
recover and debt service would decrease due to the financial sector reform
supported by IDB, CDB, EU and World Bank. Therefore, additional funding
should be available to cover the full cost of the new income transfer
program.In 1998, the Government of Jamaica spent J$616 million (US$15.4
million) on the three income transfer programs combined. By the third
year of the UBP, it is envisioned to cover 217,000 beneficiaries with a
monthly benefit level of US$9. To sustain the program, Jamaica would need
to spend about US $8 million more on the unified benefit program than was
paid out in 1998. This amount should be re-allocated from less targeted
or efficient SSN programs.(ii) Experience with cash benefits linked to
school attendance indicates that behavioral changes encouraged through
participation in the program will continue even if the transfer is
discontinued, as children will have formed the habit of attending.
Furthermore, successful implementation of the proposed project would
provide Jamaica with a suitable mechanism to provide the needed assistance
to the poor that could be scaled up or down, depending on economic
conditions.(iii) The project includes a significant component of
institutional development to implement the safety net reform, including
consolidation of cash transfer programs, the establishment of a targeting
mechanism, and the establishment of a management information system and a
monitoring and evaluation system. This significant increase in capacity
of Jamaica's social safety net will continue beyond the life of the
project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The lessons learned and incorporated into project design were drawn from
experience with similar projects financed by the Bank in Latin America and
other regions. This experience demonstrates that successful projects in
providing incentives for human capital investment will include the
following key elements: (a) a targeting mechanism that will identify the
poorest; (b) a management information system to monitor program pay-out
and eligibility status; (c) linkage of benefit receipt to changed
behavior; (d) consultation with beneficiaries and local civil society (see
annex 12).Similar programs in the region have had positive results. The
PROGRESA program in Mexico has been determined to have a positive impact
on school enrollment, promotion and attendance rates. A preliminary
- 9-



evaluation found that the overall lower-secondary education enrollment
rate increased by 4.9 percent, but for PROGRESA households, this rate
increased by 19 percent. Brazil has a school stipend program (Bolsa
Escola) that also had these positive results, while in Honduras, the Beca
program demonstrated a primary school enrollment rate increase of 12
percent in participating areas, as opposed to an annual increase of 3
percent. School performance improved by nearly 12 percent and repetition
rates declined by an average of 3 percent.PROGRESA was also found to have
significant positive health impacts in Mexico, where utilization of public
health clinics for preventive care increased by 60 percent among PROGRESA
families. These preventive visits enabled the PROGRESA beneficiaries to
reduce the number of inpatient hospitalizations by more than half among
children and adults, suggesting that PROGRESA lowered the incidence of
severe illness. At the same time, there was no reduction in the
utilization of private providers, indicating that the increased
utilization at public clinics did not substitute public care for private
care. Finally, PROGRESA children had a 14 percent lower incidence of
illness and adults had a 12 percent reduction in the number of days unable
to perform daily activities due to illness.In a recent World Bank survey
about Targeted Conditional Transfer Programs (TCT Programs) in several
Latin American countries, preliminary evidence suggests that the programs
have been reasonably successful in targeting, though some aspects need
attention. Evidence from Brazil and Mexico on program targeting (based on
comparisons of beneficiary and control populations) suggests that these
programs target well. Leakage rates (i.e., the non-deserving benefiting
from the program) have been low. However, under-coverage rates (the
deserving populations that are missed by the program) have been high. In
decentralized programs such as Bolsa Escola, this is partly due to a lack
of finances; some municipalities have had to ration coverage within the
qualifying group to the poorest. The Jamaican program therefore wishes to
target the very poor, i.e. approximately the poorest 15 percent of the
population, to guarantee adequate financing. On the other hand, surveys
show that excessively stringent criteria for selection of families can
lead to exclusion of the needy. In Brasilia for example, because some of
the programs explicitly focus on poor families with children in school
age, poor families with only pre-school and adolescent children are
excluded. The Jamaican program will use a scoring formula that is based on
a targeting mechanism to identify persons with the lowest consumption
level. In this way an effort is made to prevent unintended exclusion of
some groups.Another important conclusion from the study is that perhaps
the biggest hindrance to the successful implementation and growth of
decentralized programs is their fiscal affordability. Not only are some
of the programs in other countries implemented at the municipal level,
but their financing also has to come from local sources. This has created
a particularly perverse problem in that the poorest municipalities are the
ones that need these programs the most (since they have a high incidence
of poverty) but are unable to afford them (since they also have low local
revenues). The problem is avoided in the Jamaican program as it will be
financed from the national government's general revenues by reallocation
of funds from other, inefficient safety net programs or from the social
expenditure budget.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
- 10 -



Issues         None
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Andrea Vermehren
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-0657
Fax: 202-522-3135
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending February 2, 2002
- 11 -



