Page  1
November 4, 1999
The Hon. Omar Davies
Minister
Ministry of Finance and Planning
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston 4
JAMAICA
Re: Japanese Grant for the Social Protection Project
       (TF25979)
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding six hundred thousand U.S. dollars (US $600,000) (the Grant) to 
Jamaica (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the 
said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By______________
Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
JAMAICA
By:
___________________
Name:
Omar Davies
Title:
Minister of Finance and Planning
Date:
November 16, 1999
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the proposed Social Protection Project 
(the Project), as a second phase of Jamaica’s National Poverty Eradication Strategy (the Project).  The 
activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are:
(a)
Carrying out of a review of social assistance programs through a study which includes a 
description of the social assistance programs available in Jamaica.  For each of the analyzed 
social assistance programs, the study shall describe its main features, including institutional 
and administrative structure, funding, eligibility criteria, duration of benefit, benefit levels, 
work incentives, design issues, current and planned changes, costs, targeting mechanisms, 
financing mechanisms.  This activity is estimated to cost US$ 211,240.
(b)
Based on the annual Living Standards Measurement Survey (1998), the last Population 
Census, and other data available, refinement and update of the poverty map for Jamaica that 
dates from 1996 to improve the targeting of the Jamaican Social Investment Fund’s (JSIF) 
investments towards the most vulnerable groups.  This activity is estimated to cost US$ 
51,040.
(c)
Carrying out of a social assessment of the main beneficiaries of the JSIF subprojects, 
such assessment shall focus on impact on vulnerable groups (i.e., including the poor, youth, 
unemployed and women) in order to design the second phase of the Jamaica Fund.  The 
assessment would also look into options to increase the participation of women and the young 
poor in the design of:  (i) JSIF subprojects; and (ii) overall reform of the safety net.  This 
activity is estimated to cost US$ 75,040.
(d)
Carrying out an analysis of the Jamaican labor market to elaborate a framework for 
financing training and employment-generation projects, such study to include: (i) a brief 
synopsis of the labor market, particularly as it relates to the demand for skills; and (ii) an 
assessment of the supply of skills, especially focussing on the public and private provision of 
pre-employment training and on the provision of in-service training.  This activity is 
estimated to cost US$ 58,040.
(e)
Carrying out of a study and training to: (i) assess the requirements for designing and 
implementing labor-intensive infrastructure subprojects; and (ii) develop an implementation 
strategy for JSIF.  This activity is estimated to cost US$ 37,520.  
(f)
Design of a maintenance fund for JSIF-financed projects including training of JSIF staff 
and the development of a strategy to implement and finance the maintenance fund.  This 
activity is estimated to cost US$ 57,560.
(g)
Carrying out of an assessment of the capacity building needs and provision of training of 
local institutions working with the JSIF (NGOs, communities, private construction firms etc.).  
Page  3
This activity is estimated to cost US$ 61,040.
(h)
Carrying out of a series of high level workshops for Jamaican policy makers and relevant 
representatives from the civil society and the private sector to: (i) determine and collectively 
agree upon the scope of the social safety net reforms needed; and (ii) elicit participation from 
the main beneficiaries and other partners in the design of the second stage of JSIF. This 
activity is estimated to cost US$ 24,000.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services and training required for the 
Activities (including estimated contingency costs of US$ 24,520).
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient, through the 
Planning Institute of Jamaica, shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the 
Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  
The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result 
of claims against the Bank in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
  The Activities shall be completed by not later than October 31, 2000, or such later date as the 
Bank may establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  Except in special circumstances, no 
proceeds of the Grant shall be used to fund Activities after Bank approval of financing for the Project, 
and the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of such approval.  After that 
date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be governed, 
except as otherwise decided by the Bank after consultation with the Recipient by the provisions of the 
Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
Jamaica on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent 
residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any 
of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to 
which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International 
Development Association shall have been suspended.  The Bank may also terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the 
Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the 
Bank’s assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
Page  4
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is 
not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant provisions of Statement 
15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated July 1997 (the Administrative Manual), the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Attachment.
2.
Services for the Activities (a) and (d) shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines applicable to Quality- and Cost-based Selection of Consultants.
3.
Services for the Activities (b), (c), (e), (f), (g) and (h) and parts of (a) and (d) shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions, which are 
consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
