CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 252 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Casamance Rice Project)
BETWEEN THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE, 18, 1971
S


﻿CONFORMED COPY
0
CREDIT NUMBER 252 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Casamance Rice Project)
BETWEEN THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE, 18, 1971


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 1971, between the
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIAMON (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The partiec . this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the dele-
tion of Sections 5.01 and 6.02(h) thereof and to the renum-
bering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the foll,-wing additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "Ministry" means the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment of the Borrower;
(b) "Organization" means the unit responsible directly
to the Minister of Rural Development, established by the
Borrower to carry out the Project and as described in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c) "Project Area" means the Departement of Sedhiou,
in the Casamance Region;


﻿4
(d) "BNDS" means the Banque Nationale de D6veloppe-
ment du Senegal, established pursuant to Law No. 64-33 of
the Borrower dated May 26, 1964;
(e) "ONCAD" means the Ofice National de Cooperation
et d'Assistance pour le Developpement, established under
Law No. 66-60 of the Borrower, dated June 30, 1966, as
amended by Law No. 67-46 of the Borrower, dated Octo-
ber 12, 1967.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount
in various currencies equivalent to three million seven
hundred thousand dollars ($3,700,000).
SECTIoN 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Sched-
ule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be
made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services sup-
plied from, such territories.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the goods and services (other than services of con-
sultants) required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the
basis of procedures consistent with the Guidelines for


﻿5
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,
published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTIOx 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (3/4 of 1o) per annum on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on April 1 a r d October 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 1981
and ending April 1, 2021, each installment to and includ-
ing the installment payable on April 1, 1991 to be one-half
of one per cent (1/ of 1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(11/2%) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. (a) The Borrower, acting through the
Organization, shall carry out the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with sound agri-
cultural, engineering and administrative practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿6
(b) The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be neces-
sary (i) to cause BNDS to provide seasonal and medium-
term francing of the farm inputs required to carry out
the Project and for marketing the crops produced in the
Project Area, and (ii) to furnish the funds which will be
required for capital investments and farm inputs for the
five years following the Closing Date.
(c) Funds to be provided by the Borrower as described
in this Section shall be made available in advance on the
basis of estimates established by the Organization.
SECTION 3.02. In order to assist the Organization by
furnishing technical specialists, the Borrower shall employ
during the first five years of the Project consultants ac-
ceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association. Such specialists shall include
experts in financial and economic analysis, rural engineer-
ing, agronomy and training, and shall be employed pursuant
to the schedule, and with the functions, set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement. The Borrower shall appoint assist-
ants to work with such experts, as specified in such
Schedule 4.
SECTION 3.03. In carrying out the construction works
included in the Project, other than irrigation and drainage
works, the Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to
the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
SECTION 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the im-
ported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use -or in-
stallation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿7
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.
SECTION 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the As-
sociation, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest concerning the Project, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Organi-
zation to maintain for the Project separate accounts ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with analytical accounting
practices the financing of the Project, detailed and itemized
according to purpose and function and including individual
accounts for farmers benefitting from credit facilities for
farm inputs.
(b) The Borrower shall have such accounts audited by
a State Inspector in accordance with its usual procedures
and shall furnish to the Association as soon as available,


﻿8
but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year, (i) certified copies of the financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (ii) the report of
such audit by the State Inspector.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain with re-
sponsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance of the rice mills, storage
facilities, vehicles and other physical assets related to the
Project, against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with sound practice.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the Or-
ganization be at all times managed and operated in accord-
ance with sound administrative and agricultural practices
by qualified and experienced management and staff.
SECTIoN 4.04. For the purposes of Section 4.03 above,
(a) appointments to the positions of Project Director, Plan-
ning Officer, Administrative Officer, Cooperatives Inspector
and Accountant shall be made following consultation with,
and approval of, the Association; and
(b) the Veterinary Service of the Departement of
Sedhiou shall make available such of its services and f a-
cilities as shall be required to ensure the satisfactory
carrying out of the Project.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall enter into an agree-
ment with BNDS satisfactory to the Association pursuant
to which the seasonal and medium-term credits to be made
available under the Project to eligible farmers' coopera-
tives, as defined in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, will be
financed, administered and repaid.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure (i) that the
stores operated by ONCAD be expanded progressively as
is


﻿9
necessary to meet the demand of farmers for farm inputs
required for the Project, (ii) that appropriate arrange-
ments be maintained between BNDS, ONCAD, farmers'
cooperatives and the Organization whereby the credits
granted to such cooperatives are repaid and (iii) that
ONCAD assign qualified and experienced officers to the
Organization for the purpose.
SECTION 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall ensure (i) that the
rice mills included in the Project be operated, by the
Organization during the execution of the Project and by
the Ministry thereafter, in accordance with sound practices
and under competent and experienced management and that
adequate additional milling capacity in the Project Area
be provided and maintained following the completion of the
Project. Ownership of such mills shall not be transferred
without the prior approval of the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be re-
quired to ensure (i) that each eligible farmers' coopera-
tive, as defined in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, be the only
authorized purchaser of paddy from farmers in its area,
(ii) that such cooperatives resell the paddy, as well as
groundnuts purchased from such farmers, to ONCAD at
prices sufficient to cover total cost, including marketing
costs, incurred by such cooperatives and to provide a rea-
sonable margin of profit, (iii) that satisfactory arrange-
ments be maintained among such cooperatives, ONCAD
and the Organization to ensure the processing of such
paddy in the mills operated by the Organization, (iv) that
the fee charged by such mills for such processing be suffi-
cient to cover the costs of such processing and to provide
in addition a margin of profit calculated to render the mills
commercially attractive for eventual transfer to eligible
cooperatives and (v) that the price of rice ex-mill be no less
than the wholesale price fixed for imported rice in the area
by the Office de Commercialisation Agricole (OCAS).


﻿10
SECTION 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall exchange views
annually with the Association on the level of subsidies for
fertilizers accorded rice farmers in the Project Area, with
a view to a progressive reduction of such subsidies.
(b) In order that the costs of the Project be recovered,
the Borrower shall impose and maintain on -all sales of rice
ex-mill in the Casamance Region an adequate per kg levy
on milled rice, or make alternative arrangements for such
purpose satisfactory to the Association.
SECTION 4.09. The Organization shall ensure that farm-
ers benefitting from the Project meet and adhere to the
standards of eligibility set forth in part B of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
SECTION 4.10. The Borrower shall at all times main-
tain the feeder roads improved under the Project in ac-
cordance with sound road maintenance practices.
SECTION 4.11. The Borrower shall carry out such sur-
veys of the grey soil in the Project Area, including analyses
of water table levels and soil humidities and salinities, as
shall be appropriate to determine future rice cropping.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of
either party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the administra-
tion, operations, resources and expenditures of the Organi-
zation and, in respect of the Project, of the other depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower respoLsible for carrying


﻿11
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and
economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower, in-
cluding its balance of payments, and the external debt of
the Borrower, c any of its political subdivisions and of
any agency of the Borrower or of any such political sub-
division.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
operations, resources and expenditures of the Organization
and, in respect of the Project, of the other departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly in-
form each other of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obliga-
tions under the Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without dedution for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories.


﻿12
SECTION 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execu-
tion, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and serv-
ice charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restrictions,
regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be 'due and payable immediately together
with the service charges thereon and upon any such declara-
tion such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the
Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
SECTION 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is spe-
cified, namely, that the Borrower or BNDS shall have
failed to carry out any obligation undertaken pursuant to
the agreement referred to in Section 4.05 of this Agree-
ment.
SECTIoN 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) the event specified in Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days


﻿13
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower; and
(b) the agreement referred to in Section 4.05 of this
Agreement shall have been modified without the prior
approval of the Association.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the agreement referred
to in Section 4.05 of this Agreement on behalf of the Bor-
rower and BNDS have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement have been employed; and
(c) the Organization has been established and the posi-
tions therein of Project Director, Assistant Agronomists,
Technical Agents, Assistant Training Officer, Assistant
Rural Engineers, Topographer, Accountant, Cooperatives
Inspector, Cooperatives Marketing Officers, Cooperatives
Management Advisers, Cooperatives Supervisors, Planning
Officer and Administrative Officer, each in the respective
number indicated in Schedule 4 to this Agreement as being
required for the first year of the Project, have been filled.
SECTION 8.02. The date October 20, 1971 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 3.05(b), 4.01(e), 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10 and 4.11 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on


﻿14
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTIoN 9.01. The Ministre cha,rge des Finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Rue Charles Lain'
Boite Postale 4017
Dakar, Senegal
Cable address:
Minifinances
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C.
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective


﻿15
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ LioPOLD SEDAR SENGHOR
President of the Republic
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ ROBERT S. MONAMARA
President
0


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of amounts of the Credit to each category and the per-
centage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in    % of Expenditures
Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
I. Vehicles; equipment for rice                  100% of foreign ex-
mills; land clearing and                             penditures
spraying equipment;                                    or
70%o of local ex-
260,000           penditures
II. Civil Works: irrigation and
drainage; buildings for the
Organization; road improve-
ments;                                          82% of local ex-
1,070,000           penditures
III. Consultants' Services; costs
of staff of the Organization;                  100% of total ex-
1,580,000           penditures
IV. Operating costs of the Or-
ganization (excluding III
above)                                          75% of total ex-
190,000           penditures
V. Unallocated                       600,000
3,700,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories, and in the currency, of any country other than


﻿17
the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the terri-
tories of which goods are produced or from the territories
of which services are supplied, expenditures in such cur-
rency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures";
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower for goods purchased in, or
services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreign and local expenditures.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement or
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount repre-
sented by the percentage set forth in the third column of
the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of any Category
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds
of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments
for such taxes.
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph 1 above:
(a) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allo-
cated to such Category and no longer required therefor
will be reallocated by the Association by increasing cor-
respondingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third


﻿18
column of the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of such
expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such in-
crease, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Cate-
gory from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as deter-
mined by the Association, in respect of any other expendi-
tures.
5. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate
of total expenditures under Category II, III or IV shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all ex-
penditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, part of the Borrower's program for the
development of rice cultivation, consists in the following:
1. the appointment and engagement of staff and personnel
for the Organization, and the provision therefor of ve-
hicles, equipment, housing and offices;
2. providing, through the Organization, extension services
to farmers benefitting from the Project;
3. constructing irrigation and drainage works for about
2,000 ha of swamps for rice cultivation;
4. clearing about 9,500 ha of land for rice cultivation;
5. constructing, equipping and operating 24 rice mills, each
with an annual production capacity of 500 tons of rice,
and with associated storage facilities;
6. improving about 250 km of feeder roads in the Project
Area; and
7. providing seasonal and medium-term credits to farmers'
cooperatives in the Project Area which are eligible there-
for as described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and ar-
ranging for the marketing of their crops.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1976.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. Only the procurement of goods described in Category
I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be by international
competition as described in the Guidelines mentioned in
Section 2.03; contracts for the furnishing of all other goods
and services (except the services of consultants or individ-
ual specialists) may be invited only from local or regional
suppliers.
2. With respect to any contract for civil works or for the
supply of goods expected to cost the equivalent of $10,000
or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tion to bid and the specifications and other bidding docu-
ments, together with a description of the advertising pro-
cedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modifi-
cation to the bidding documents shall require the Associa-
tion's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder to
whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish
to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report by the Organization on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with its recom-


﻿21
mendation for award, and the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall promptly inform the Bor-
rower whether it has any objection to the intended award
on the ground that it would be inconsistent with the Guide-
lines referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or with
the Development Credit Agreement, and shall state the
reasons for any objections it may have.
(c) If the contract shall be awarded over the Associa-
tion's reasonable objection, or if its terms and conditions
shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure
thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fur-
nished to the Association promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Ac-
count in respect of any such contract.
3. With respect to any such contract estimated at less than
the equivalent of $10,000, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract.
The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower if it
finds that the award of the contract is not consistent with
the Guidelines referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agree-
ment or with the Development Credit Agreement and, in
such event, no expenditure under such contract shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
The Organization and its Staffing; Eligible Cooperatives
A. The Organization and its Staffing
1. The Project Director, reporting directly to the Minister
of Rural Development, will manage the Organization from
its headquarters in S'dhiou. His main responsibilities will
be to:
a) execute the Project in accordance with programs pre-
viously approved by the Minister of Rural Develop-
ment and the Association, and in particular engage
and dismiss the personnel to be posted to the Organi-
zation;
b) prepare annual plans of operations and budgets for
the Project Organization for approval by the Minister
of Rural Development and the Association;
c) prepare quarterly and annual progress reports for
submission to the Minister of Rural Development and
the Association;
d) prepare and forward applications for withdrawal of
the proceeds of the Credit to the Association, through
the Ministry of Finance; and
e) prepare the annual financial statements of the Organi-
zation for audit by a State Inspector and transmit
audited accounts approved by the Minister of Rural
Development to the Association.
2. In his task, the Project Director will be assisted by the
following key personnel:
a) one Agronomist and his two Assistants, in charge of
extension services;
b) one Training Officer and his Assistant, in charge of
training extension staff and farmers in cropping tech-
niques;
c) one Rural Engineer, his two Assistants and the sup-
porting staff, in charge of the road improvements pro-
gram and the construction, operation and maintenance


﻿23
of rice mills, buildings and irrigation and drainage
facilities;
d) one Cooperatives Inspector assisted by two Market-
ing Officers and three Management Advisers, in
charge of the credit and marketing operations and the
supervision of farmers' cooperatives; and
e) one Financial Analyst, knowledgeable in economics, in
charge of all accounts to be kept by the Organization,
and of economic analyses of operations under the
Project, with the assistance of one Accountant and
one Agricultural Economist.
In addition, the Project Director will receive assistance
from a Planning Officer and an Administrative Officer.
3. Except as otherwis - agreed with the Association, the
above staff will be appointed and employed so as to be
available in the numbers and for the periods during the
execution of the Project set forth in the following schedule:
Post                                    Years
1    2    3    4    5
Project Director                 1    1    1    1   1
Agronomist                       1    1    1    1   1
Assistant Agronomist             2    2    2    2    2
Technical Agent                  6    9   12   12  12
Field Agent                     60   72 100 100 100
Training Officer                 1    1    1   1    1
Assistant Training Officer       1    1    1   -   -
Rural Engineer                   1    1    1    1   1
Assistant Rural Engineer         2    2    2    2   2
Topographer                      1    2    2   2    2
Financial Analyst                1    1    1    1   1
Accountant                       1    1    1    1   1
Agro-Economist                  -    -     1    1    1
Cooperatives Inspector           1    1    1   1    1
Cooperatives Marketing Officer   2    2    2    2   2
Cooperatives Management Adviser 3     3   3    3    3
Cooperatives Supervisor          5    7   10   10  10
Planning Officer                 1    1    1    1   1
Administrative Officer           1    1    1    1   1


﻿24
4. In addition, the staff required to operate the rice mills
included in the Project will be recruited on a schedule
based upon the dates of commencement of operations of
the individual mills.
5. Project operations will be coordinated with other minis-
terial and governmental activities in the Project Area. For
this purpose, the Project Director will sit on the three De-
velopment Committees established or to be established at
departmental, regional and central governmental levels,
and these Committees will act also as Advisory Committees
to the Organization.
6. During Project implementation, the Organization will
participate in the strengthening of the Agricultural Serv-
ice of the Ministry in the Project Area by training and
transferring staff, to enable such Service to take over the
functions of the Organization after completion of the
Project.
B. Eligible Farmers' Cooperatives
7. Farmers, in order to benefit from the Project, will satisfy
the following criteria:
a) achievement of good agricultural results and the abil-
ity to muster an average of 100 man-days of family
labor per month;
b) possession of land suitable for rice cultivation in a
convenient location in the Project Area;
c) freedom from default on any outstanding debt with
cooperatives, ONCAD, BNDS or other official agen-
cies, and willingness and ability to accept the credit
procedures to be utilized under the Project;
d) willingness and ability to maintain satisfactorily any
irrigation works from which they benefit, to carry
out soil conservation works as deemed necessary by
the Organization and to follow its directives on culti-
vation techniques; and


﻿25
e) membership in an eligible cooperative, as defined be-
low.
8. Such farmers will be members either of new cooperatives
established for the purposes of the Project, or of new sec-
tions of already established and financially sound coopera-
tives. These cooperatives will be placed under the control
of the Project Organization and for the purposes of the
Project, be deemed eligible cooperatives. The Organization,
under the sole responsibility of the Project Director, will
provide ONCAD with information on such cooperatives
as required by ONCAD regulations, but the Organization
will carry out for such cooperatives the operations en-
trusted normally to ONCAD in respect of other cooper-
atives.
9. Assisted by the personnel assigned to the Organization
by ONCAD, and by other Organization staff, the Project
Director will have the powers required to ensure that:
a) eligible cooperatives' accounts be properly kept at
both Organization headquarters and at cooperative
levels, with individual loan accounts for each coopera-
tive member;
b) credit needs of each such member be timely and ade-
quately appraised from the technical and financial
points of view;
c) all credit needs of such cooperatives be collected and
presented to BNDS for approval;
d) farm inputs be provided through ONCAD's stores
and distributed to such cooperatives and to their mem-
bers as and when needed;
e) funds required for the marketing of crops produced
by such members be obtained by the Organization in
time for distribution to such cooperatives; and that
f) eligible cooperatives deduct the appropriate amounts
for debt service from payments to members for the
purchase of their crops.


