Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4187-SE 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project 2) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 26, 2006 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4187-SE 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 26, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (
“Recipient”) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”). 
WHEREAS: 
(A) 
the Association has received a letter from the Recipient, dated March 22, 1999, 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to strengthen 
the Recipient’s agricultural sector (the Program) and declaring the Recipient’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B) 
the Recipient has requested that the Association support the Recipient’s 
execution of the Program through a series of Credits over a period of 
approximately 10 years;  
(C) 
the Recipient intends to obtain a loan in an amount equivalent to US$ 6,000,0000 
from the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be 
entered into between the Recipient and IFAD (the Fund Loan Agreement); and 
(D) 
the Recipient and the Association have entered into a Development Credit 
Agreement dated October 14, 1999 under which the Association has provided 
SDR 20,200,000 in support of the first phase of the Program (the First Credit). 
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the 
Appendix to this Agreement.  
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to fourteen million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,000,000) (
“Credit”) to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are July 1 and January 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Euros. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the Program.  
To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried 
out, in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall ensure that 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following additional event is 
specified, namely that a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Recipient has recruited key staff of the TFCU, including the project 
coordinator, a financial management specialist, a procurement specialist, and a 
monitoring and evaluation specialist, all with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
The Recipient has: (i) adopted the Project Implementation Manual, including 
accounting, financial and administrative procedures, in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association; and (ii) updated the accounting software at the 
TFCU in manner satisfactory to the Association;  
(c) 
The Recipient has hired an external auditor satisfactory to the Association, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and consistent with the 
procurement procedures referred to in Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
(d) 
The Recipient has entered into agreements, in form and substance acceptable to 
the Association, with FNRAA and ASPRODEB, respectively, for the 
implementation of some of the activities to be carried under Parts 1 and 3 of the 
Project; 
(e) 
The Recipient has prepared legal texts, acceptable to the Association for the 
establishment of a National Agro-Sylvo-Pastoral Development Fund (
Fonds de 
Développement Agro-Sylvo-Pastorale - FNDASP
), under terms and reference 
acceptable to the Association; and  
(f) 
The Recipient has prepared a plan, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association, for the reassignment of ANCAR’s staff. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister at the time in charge of economy and 
finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget 
Rue René N’diaye 
B.P. 4017 
Dakar, Senegal 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
MINIFINANCES 
3203 
G 
  221-821-1630 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at Dakar, Senegal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By: 
       /s/ 
Abdoulaye 
Diop 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
       /s/ 
Madani 
M. 
Tall 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to increase access of smallholder producers to sustainable 
and diversified agricultural services and innovations, in order to enhance agricultural productivity 
and to strengthen food security. 
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the following 
parts: 
PART 1. 
Supporting the Agricultural Research System 
A. 
Supporting the FNRAA and NARS through:  
(i) 
provision of grants for eligible strategic and applied research programs to 
carry out research in the areas relevant to the priorities defined by the 
national agricultural research framework; 
(ii) 
provision of grants for research and development sub-projects focusing 
on resolving constraints to small farm productivity and income 
generation; and 
(iii) 
provision of financing for strengthening the capacity of FNRAA and the 
steering committee of NARS. 
B. 
Upgrading and maintaining the NARS scientific research capacity through: 
(i) 
The rehabilitation of infrastructure at some of the regional research 
stations;  
(ii) 
Acquisition of vehicles and equipment for research executing entities; 
(iii) 
Provision of technical assistance and research staff training;  
(iv) 
Supporting scientists participation in regional and international networks 
and workshops; and  
(v) 
Supporting scientific information system, publishing and documentation. 
Page  8
-
7
-
PART 2 
Strengthening the Agricultural Advisory Services 
Provision of technical assistance and acquisition of equipment to strengthen the capacity 
of the national agricultural advisory system through:  
(i) 
the extension of the advisory services system to all rural 
communities; 
(ii) 
the implementation of an integrated information system;  
(iii) 
the development of methodological and technical supports and 
manuals; and  
(iv) 
support for the emergence of a pluralistic network of agricultural 
advisors for the provision of specialized services.  
PART 3 
Supporting Producer Organizations 
Strengthening the capacity of producer organizations through: 
A. 
Increasing producer participation in policy formulation by: (i) providing training 
on national and international issues; (ii) facilitating the flow of information and 
communication with farmers; (iii) improving farmer’s representation at regional 
level through the development of CLCOPs and CRCRs; and (iv) providing 
technical assistance and grants to strengthen the capacity of national specialized 
federations of producer organizations. 
B. 
Supporting the producer organizations’ technical and economic capacity through: 
(i) provision of access to capacity building and advisory services to enable 
producers to intensify and diversify farming systems and to meet market 
requirements; and (ii) assisting producers to develop and lead market-oriented 
operations to enable them to increase and diversify their production and income 
PART 4 
Supporting Sectoral Coordination 
A) 
Strengthening the capacity of the Ministries in charge of agriculture and livestock 
in policy formulation, planning, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of 
public investments in the sector through the: (i) completion of the 
decentralization of personnel toward regional offices and staffing of key central 
directorates with qualified specialists; (ii) establishment, implementation, and 
monitoring of a medium-term expenditure framework for the sector; (iii) 
implementation of the national agricultural and rural training strategy; (iv) 
establishment of a national information, monitoring and evaluation system for the 
Page  9
-
8
-
sector, to be implemented at the central and decentralized levels; and (v) 
improvement of the networks of the regional veterinary inspection services and 
the regional directorates for agriculture. 
B) 
Provision of technical assistance, equipment, training and financing operating 
costs and staff for the establishment of the TFCU, which will be responsible for 
Project oversight, management, monitoring and evaluation, fiduciary 
coordination. 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
1. 
The Recipient shall establish and maintain, with composition and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association: 
(a) 
a Steering Committee, to be responsible for approving annual work program and 
budget and to assess Project performance; and 
(b) 
a Technical and Fiduciary Coordination Unit, within the ministry in charge of 
agriculture, with the responsibility for: (i) monitoring of the day-to-day 
implementation of the Project; (ii) facilitating exchange of information and 
cooperation among the implementing entities; (iii) preparing consolidated bi-
annual reports; (iv) consolidating, supervising and monitoring procurement plans 
for the parts of the Project; (v) managing the Special Account in collaboration 
with the ministry in charge of economy and finance; and (vi) acting as liaison 
with the Association. 
2. 
The ministries in charge of agriculture and livestock, FNRAA, ISRA and ITA will be 
responsible for the implementation of Part 4 of the Project; and ANCAR will be 
responsible for the implementation of Part 2 of the Project. 
3. 
The Recipient shall enter into agreements, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association, with FNRAA and ASPRODEB, respectively, for the implementation of 
Parts 1 and 3, respectively, of the Project. 
(a) 
ANCAR, for the implementation of Part 2 of the Project; and 
(b) 
ASPRODEB, for the implementation of Part 3 of the Project. 
B. 
Environmental and Social safeguards 
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework 
and the Resettlement Policy 
Framework, and shall not, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, amend or 
waive any provision of the aforementioned if such amendment or waiver may, in the 
opinion of the Association, adversely and materially affect Project implementation. 
Page  11
-
10
-
C. Project 
Manuals 
The Recipient shall implement or cause the Project to be implemented in accordance with 
the Project Implementation Manual (PIM), and except as the Recipient and the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision 
of the PIM if in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the 
objective thereof. 
D. Grants 
for 
Subprojects 
1. 
The Recipient shall provide Grants to finance part of the activities under Parts 1 and 3 of 
the Project. Grants shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of the PIM, and 
such provisions shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
(a) 
Grants shall be provided for any of the activities referred to in Parts 1 and 3 of 
the Project; 
 
(b) 
Activities to be financed by Grants shall be in compliance with: (i) applicable 
laws and regulations of the Recipient; and (ii) criteria and standards set forth in 
the PIM. 
2. 
To provide Grants, the Recipient shall cause FNRAA and ASPRODEB, respectively, to 
enter into a Grant Agreement with the Grant Beneficiary in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which Agreement shall include the following: 
(a) 
A description of the approved Subproject / s, including its / their budget and 
performance indicators; 
(b) 
A provision requiring the financing to be made on a grant basis; 
(c) 
The Grant Beneficiary’s obligation to: (i) carry out the Subproject with due diligence 
and efficiency, and in accordance with sound administrative, technical and financial 
standards and in accordance with the provisions of the PIM; (ii) maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices defined in the PIM, 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject; and (iii) 
maintain adequate reporting in accordance with the standards specified in the PIM; 
(d) 
The Grant Beneficiary’s obligation to: (i) carry out the Subproject in accordance with 
the guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications set forth in the ESMF, 
and (ii) not, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, amend or waive any 
provision of the aforementioned if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of 
the Association, adversely and materially affect Project implementation; 
Page  12
-
11
-
(e) 
The requirements that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed from the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
the PIM; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying 
out of the activities under Parts 1 and 3 of the Project; 
(f) 
The right of FNRAA and ASPRODEB, respectively, to inspect, by itself, or jointly 
with the Grant Beneficiary, the Recipient, and the Association, if the Association 
shall so request, the goods, sites and services financed by the Grant, the operations 
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; 
(g) 
The right of the FNRAA and ASPRODEB, respectively, to obtain all information as 
the Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operations and financial conditions of the Subproject / s financed by 
the Grant; and  
(h) 
The right of the FNRAA and ASPRODEB, respectively, to suspend or terminate the 
Gran
t
Beneficiary’s right to use the proceeds of the Grant upon failure by the Grant 
Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Grant Agreement.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) 
of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist of the 
following:   
 (i) 
Outcome 
indicators: 
·
At least 80% of client producers are satisfied with the services 
received; 
·
At least 50% of producers’ members of POs participating in 
PSAOP1 have integrated at least one innovation in their 
production system; and 
Page  13
-
12
-
·
Food security has increased for at least 60% of producers 
supported by PSAOP. 
 (ii) 
Key 
output 
indicators: 
·
24
new technologies developed, adapted, on-farm tested and 
transferred to advisory services; 
·
All rural communes are served by at least one advisor; 
·
CLCOP are established and effective in all rural communes; and 
·
Medium-term expenditure frameworks have been put in place for 
the agriculture and livestock sectors. 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of 
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months prior to the Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the 
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements, and those of the implementing entities, 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Recipient, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the 
Project Preparation Advance was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of such 
period.
 
Page  14
-
13
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1. Goods 
and 
Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Community participation in procurement 
(d)  Single source  
C. 
Particular Selection Methods for 
Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection.
 
Page  15
-
14
-
2. 
For the purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of 
consultants for consulting services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, per 
contract, may include only consultants from the country of the Borrower.  
3. Other 
Selection 
Methods of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table specifies 
methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which may be 
used for consu
ltants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Least Cost Selection (LCS)
 
(b)  Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(SQC) 
(c)  Individual Consultants
 
(d)  Single Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts, which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category Amount 
of 
Credit 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
 
Percentage of expenditures 
to be financed 
(1) 
Works 
780,000 
100% of foreign expenditures and 
100% of local expenditures 
Page  16
-
15
-
excluding VAT 
(2) 
Goods 
2,720,000 
100% of foreign expenditures and 
100% of local expenditures 
excluding VAT 
(3) 
Consultants’ services, 
training, and audits 
2,260,000 
100% of foreign expenditures and 
100% of local expenditures 
excluding VAT 
Agreements with 
 
(a) FNRAA 
2,130,000 
(4) 
(b) ASPRODEB 
3,480,000 
100%  
(5) 
Operating costs 
1,450,000 
100%  
(6) 
Reimbursement of Project 
Preparation Facility  
470,000  
(7)  
Unallocated 
760,000 
 
TOTAL 14,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
under Grants for Subprojects under Category 4 unless Grants have been made in 
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in Part D of Section IV of 
this Schedule and the PIM. 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; 
provided, however, that, if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign 
expenditures”; and 
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means incremental recurrent expenditures incurred on 
account of the Project implementation, office supplies, fuel and maintenance of 
vehicles, maintenance of equipment, telephone and other communications 
charges, office rent and insurance for vehicles, motorcycles and office equipment 
Page  17
-
16
-
and furniture, bank and services fees, travel and supervision, and staff salaries, 
but excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil service. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Recipient shall provide at least the equivalent of CFAF 10,800,000,000 (excluding 
taxes) for the co-financing of the activities under Parts 1, 2, and 4 of the Project.  These 
amounts shall be made available, on a regular and timely basis, in accordance with the 
Recipient’s budgetary procedures and based on the financing needs set out in annual 
work programs adopted by the Steering Committee referred to in Section I of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each July 1 and January 1: 
 
commencing July 1, 2016 to and including January 1, 2026 
1% 
commencing July 1, 2026 to and including January 1, 2046 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  19
-
18
-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“ANCAR” means 
Agence Nationale de Conseil Agricole et Rural
,
the Recipient’s agency  
responsible for extension services. 
2. “ASPRODEB” 
means 
Association Sénégalaise pour la Promotion du Développement à 
la Base.
 
3. 
“Beneficiary” means the recipient of a grant for a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) 
prepared under Parts 1 and 3 of the Project. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section 2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
5. 
“CLCOP” means the 
Cadre Local de Consultation des Organisations de Producteurs
 
(Producers Organizations’ Local Consultation Forum). 
6. 
“CRCR” means the
 Cadre Régional de Concertation des Ruraux (Regional Rural 
Consultation Forum
). 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
8. 
“ESMF” or “Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the Recipient’s 
document dated November 26, 2005 referred to in paragraph C of Section I of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, setting forth, 
inter alia
,
guidelines, procedures, timetable and other 
specifications designed to offset adverse environmental and social impacts related to 
Project activities, or to reduce them to acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts, 
including resettlement and or compensation of the affected persons. 
9. 
“FNRAA” means the 
Fonds National de Recherche Agricole et Agro-
Alimentaire,
(National Agricultural and Agro-processing Research Fund). 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
11.  
“ISRA” 
means 
the 
Institut Sénégalais de Recherches Agricoles
,
a
research institute of 
the Recipient established pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 74-53, dated 
April 11, 1974, as amended by Law No. 97-13, dated July 2, 1997. 
Page  20
-
19
-
12. 
“ITA” means 
Institut de Technologie Alimentaire
,
an institute working in the area of food 
technology, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 73-11, dated May 2, 1963, 
as amended by Law No. 97-13, date July 13, 1997. 
13. 
“NARS” means the Recipient’s National Agricultural Research System. 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, dated March 
22, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
16. 
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual referred to in Section Section I.C of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, detailing the procedures concerning coordination, 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation, procurement, financial management, and 
administration of the Project. 
17. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of the 
General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter 
agreement signed on behalf of the Association on November 11, 2005 and on behalf of 
the Recipient on November 25, 2005. 
18. 
“Sub-project” means any of the activities prepared and carried out under Parts 1 and 3 of 
the Project through Grants provided by FNRAA, and ASPRODEB, respectively. 
19. 
“TFCU” means the Project’s Technical and Fiduciary Coordination Unit referred to in 
Section 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
