Docuenat of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Rprx No. 8817
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES I
(LOAN 1969-TUN)
JUNE 28, 1990
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a resticd distibuo and Wmay be used by reipibs ody inhe performane of
thidr ofikud dutis  Its cotens may not otherwise be disdosed widtout World Bank autborization|



ACRONYMS AND ABBREYIATIONS
API                     Investment Promotion Agency
POPRODI                 Government  fund  providing  reimbursable  capital
contributions and subsidized loans to entrepreneurs
SAR                     Staff Appraisal RepoLt
SAL                     Structural Adjustment Loan
SSI                     Small-Scale Industry
TA                      Technical Assistance
UTICA                   Association of Tunisian Industrialists
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1     0.40 Dinars (at time of appraisal, March 1981)



W BOR OFFICILU USE ONLY
1''. WORLD SANK
Wa, iston. 0 C 20433
U.S A.
Oplat,w d 0t"v4i
June 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM to THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Tunibia
Small Scale Industries I (Loan 1969-TUN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
*Project Completion Report on Tunisia Small Scale Industries I (Loan
1969-TUN)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region. No
audit of this project has been made by the'Gperations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
Thw document has a restncted distribution and may be used by recilpents only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonzation



FOR OWCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRIES I
(LOAN 1969-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pag,e No.
Preface ......... .............. ............          ........         i
Evaluation Summary ...........................................  :il
PART I:  REPORT OF THE BANK
I.  Project Identity ......................................    1
I,.  Background .                                                  1
III.  Project Objectives .......................*..............   2
IV.  Project Design and Organization       ........................   3
V.  Project Implementation ..............................   4
VT.  Project Results ............. ................*.........   6
VII.  Project Sustainability .......................... ..... . .   7
VIII.  Bank and Borrower Performance ..........................   8
IX.  Project Documentation and Data       .........................   8
PART IIIs STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ......................   9
2.  Project Timetable ..... ...............    ..............  10
3.  Loan Disbursements and Commitments .....................  11
4.  Project Costs and Financing .............................  12
S.  Project Results  .................. ........ ..........  13
6.  Use of Bank Resources ........e.......................  14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomancer
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclksed without World Bank authofrastion.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SMALL-SCALE INDUVtRIES I
(LOAN 1969-TUN)
PREFACE
The Small-Scale Industries I Project in Tunisia, Loan 1969-TUN, was
approved by the Bank in April 1981, for the amount of US$30 million. The
loan closed in December 1988, aZter two extensions of the original closing
date (December 1986).  The Bank disbursed a total of US$27.4 million and
cancelled the remaining US$2.6 million.
This PCR was prepared by the Bank's Industry and Energy Division,
Country Department II, Europe, Middle East and North Africa Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and iII). On April 11, 1990, the Bank sent the
Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare Part II by May 16, 1990,
but none was received.
The preparation of Parts I and III is based on the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR), the Pre3ident's Report, the Loan, Guarantee and Project
Agreements, Bank supervision reports and other documents available in Bank
files related to the Project.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRIES I
(LOAN 1969-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Policy Context
1.         At the time of the SSI I Project's appraisal, the Tunisian Govern-
ment was emphasizing the development of manufacturing through increased
reliance on the private sector, for investments to expand employment and
exports. The Government recognized, in particular, the importance of devel-
oping small-scale industries (SSIs), which accounted for 652 of Tunisia's
manufacturing firms, employed 192 of the labor force and accounted for 132
of the manufacturing sector's total valued along with 11  of its total
investments. SSIs faced two sets of constraints to their development: (a)
internal problems such as limited access to financing, deficiencies in their
production, accounting and marketing management, poor product design and
quality, etc. and (b) inadequate Government attention to investment incen-
tives and institutional needs of the subsector (paras. 4 and 5). Recognizing
these constraints, the Government launched a program of support for SSIs
consisting of improved fAnancing, technical assistance, a system of incen-
tives and administrative support (para. 9).
Proiect Obiectives
2.          he main objectives of the SSI I Project were to support the
Government's efforts in establishing a comprehensive assistance program to
help SSIs expand employment, generate industrial managers and technicians,
reduce regional imbalances, and increase the responsiveness of institutional
and administrative structures to SSI needs. The Bank made a US$30 million
Project loan to the Government and of this total, US$29.35 million was
designated for small enterpreneurs through a line of credit to participating
banks, with the balance of US$0.65 million intended for strengthening the
subproject appraisal capacity of the API (Investment Promotion Agency),
operating under the aegis of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
Proiect Implementation and Results
3.         The Project experienced significant delays in loan commitments and
disbursements (para. 15).   There were several reasons for these delays.
First of all, participating banks were reluctant to become involved in the
Project because of the inherent riskiness of SSI investment, cheaper
alternative financing sources, and the cumbersome nature of administrative
procedures (paras. 15, 16, 18 axL4 20). Secondly, there was a 14-month delay
between loan signing and effectiveness and the unanticipated inflation that
occurred significantly lowered the maximum investment size and investment



- iv -
cost per job. Thus, a number of potential borrower2, eligible at the time
of appraisal, subsequently became ineligible.   Hovs.ver, the Bank amended
eligibility criteria a number of times and the pace of commitments and
disbursements eventually improved (para. 17). The overall economic climate
also hindered the Project -- during the latter part of its implementation,
the Project faced economic recession, investment demand saturation in certain
subsectors, a foreign exchange shortage and devaluation of the dinar.
4.         Actual disbursements were US$27.4 million.  This amount partially
financed some 170 subprojects costing about US$46.35 million and assisted in
the creation of an estimated 4,100 new jobs (para. 21).   Project super-
vision has indicated positive results, including better inter-industry
integration, increased emphasis on labor-intensive investments and more
willingness of participating banks to finance SSIs. However, despite the TA
provided to API under the Project, there were serious shortcomings in API's
ability to provide subproject supervision and follow-up, the ability of staff
to offer valuable consulting services, etc. (para. 22).
Project Sustainabilaty
5.         There are good prospects for the sustainability of the SSI I
Project, as discussed in paras. 27-29. The interactive relationship between
the Bank and the Borrower was successful; most difficulties were diagnosed
early and the Project objectives were achieved (see paras. 30-31). The SSI
I Project was followed by an SSI II Project (Loan 2911-TUN) in the amount of
US$28 million of which US$0.5 million was allocated for technical assistance
to API as a follow-up component to the TA component of the first loan. The
success of the follow-up SSI II loan should be enhanced by improvements in
Tunisia's financial sector (para. 29) and transformation of API into an
agency primarily responsible for providing technical assistance to investors.
The SSI II loan also included a further TA component for UTICA, an
organization which has a close relationship with small-scale entrepreneurs
and the private sector.
Lessons Learned
6.         There were two main lessons learned in the Project.  First, there
is a need, during the appraisal process, to give more attention to the
various factors affecting the participating banks' motivation for engaging
in SSI financing. Some of these factors were addressed during the Project,
i.e. changing subproject eligibility criterie in order to accelerate the pace
of commitments and disbursements and simplifying administrative procedures.
Project implementation also could be improved by indexing the subproject
eligibility criteria to inflation. With such improvements, and the financial
reforms established subsequent to SSI, the attractiveness of SSI investment
has been enhanced. The second lesson is the importance of providing appro-
priate institutional support in the design and follow-up of subprojects.
This lesson was incorporated into the SSI II Project which included a follow-
up TA component to make API an agency primarily responsible for giving TA to
investors and TA to strengthen UTICA's capability to provide additional
assistance to entrepreneurs.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES I
(LOAN 1969-TUN)
PART T. REPORT OF THE BANK
I. Proiect Identity
Project Name:     Small Scale Industries I
Loan Numbert      1969-TUN
RVP Unit:         EMENA
Country:          Tunisia
Sector:           Industry
II. Background
1.         The Tunisian Government's emphasis on the manufacturing sector
dates back to the early 1970s.  The basic policy thrust was an increased
reliance on (i) the private sector; (ii) labor intensive investments; and
(iii) export oriented investments. In response to incentives geared toward
such objec-tives the industrial sector grew at a real rate of IOX during the
seventies (compared with 6.4Z in the sixties). Further indicators of manu-
facturir.g growth included a 2OX growth in manufacturing gross fixed capital
formation during 1980, a rapidly growing private sector which accounted for
about 602 of total manufacturing investment in the second half of the seven-
ties, a 45Z increase of jobs in the manufacturing sector in the seventies,
and a share of manufacturing exports in total non-oil exports at 432.
2.         As of the early 1980s, the manuf'^cturing sector operated under a
complex system of administrative controls impacting on investment, wage and
price setting, and encompassing tariff protection and import quotas as well
as weak incentive schemes with respect to new employment creation inter-
industrial linkages, and decentralization of industrial activities. Conse-
quently, the manufacturing sector's employment generation and its export
capabilities were lower than anticipated by the Fifth Five Year Plan (1977-
1981).
3.         The importance of Small-Scale Industries (SSIs) in employment crea-
tion. development of the private sector, and industrial decentralization and
integration was strongly recognized by the Tunisian Government. As of 1978,
850 SSIs represented 652 of Tunisia's manufacturing firme. They employed 192
of the labor force, accounted for 132 of its value added and 112 of its total
investments.  Over the 1973-1978 period, the performance of the SSIs was
below the manufacturing sector's average, in that their value added was
stagnant, their labor force growing at 7Z, and investment growing at about
92 in real terms. The investment cost per job in an SSI, however, was about
402 lower than the corresponding cost in the manufacturing sector as a whole.



- 2 -
4.         The SSIs faced two sets of constraints hampering their development.
First, internal problems, of which the major ones were their limited access
to financing, deficiencies in their production, accounting and marketing
management poor product design and quality, and frequent shortages of raw
materials.
S.         The second set of constraints faced by the SSIs stemmed from the
Government policies towards them.   In24estment incentives were generally
unfavorable to them (e.g.. as these favored large investments, employment
creation, value of exports, etc.). Moreover, there was no unified agency
responsible for SSIs; the administrative  maze  was a hurdle for their
development. Also, there was little institutional financing for SSIs.
6.         The relatively lagging performance of SSIs led the Government to
devise new policies to boost the development of this important part of the
manufacturing sector. The program to support this development was detailed
in Tunisia's Sixth Five Year Plan (1981-1986), and is described in para. 9.
The project under review derived its conceptual foundation from this support
program.
III. Project Obiectives and Design
7.         The First  Small-Scale  Industries  project  (the  Project)  was
appraised in April 1980. It aimed at supporting the Government's efforts to
establish a comprehensive assistance program for SSIs to help them reach
their potential to generate employment, develop intersectoral linkages,
generate industrial managers and technicians, and reduce regional imbalances.
institutional and administrative structures and procedures were to be adapted
to become more responsive to the needs of SSIs, and the framework for finan-
cial and technical assistance was to be strengthened.
S.         The Project itself was to support the Government's program to
promote the development of SSIs; through technical and financial assistance.
The Loan (US$30 million), was made to the Government (which assumed the
foreign exchange risk)l and was to be administered by the Central Bank. Of
the total, US$29.35 million was to be made available to small entrepreneurs
through a line of credit to participating banks, while the balance (US$0.65
million) was intended to strengthen the appraisal capacity of the Investment
Promotion Agency (API), then operating under the aegis of the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry.
1     As proposed by the Bank's 1988 SAL, the Tunisian Government is
introducing modifIcations to its foreign erchange risk coverage
scheme.  Under the new system, option and 7orward funds for the
purchase of foreign exchange are to be intrcduced. Premiums under
the new system reflect the difference between the domestic and
international cost of funds. The Project under review, having been
made before the introduction of the new scheme, does not qualify for
this coverage.



IV. Prot*ect Design and Organization
9.         In response to the development constraints faced by SSIs (par&.
4-5), the Government launched in the early 1980s a program of support for
SSIs vhich was comprised of four elements:
(1)  Improved Financkig:  This was to be achieved through a
fund financing SSIs through personal equity loans andlor
eoft loans directed to SSI projects. Furthermore, all
commerciai banks in Tunisia were required to allocate
L81 of t4eir deposits to medium term financing of
projects; however, and due to the perceived riskiness of
SSI projects, most of these loans were made to larger
investments.
(ii) Technical Assistance: This assistance was to be provided
by the three public investment promotion agencies, and by
Tunisia's association of industrialists (UTICA), with the
objective of helping SSIs identify and appraise projects,
carry out the investment, and in their day-to-day opera-
tions (technology, accounting, production, and marketing
management). This assistance was to be carried through
customized assistance andlor through general training
seminars;
(iii)  Systems of Incentivess  These incent4ves were to take
into consideration the entrepreneur's 8 xperience, and
sectoral and regional priorities; and
(iv) Administrative Support: A department, created in 1980 in
the Ministry of Economy was made responsible f-r coordi-
nating the various agencies dealing with SS'
10.        To better assess the effectiveness of the program's elements and
define the exogenous factors, the Bank initiated in 1979 a Pilot loan of US$5
million. The Project under review benefited from this experience, particu-
larly in providing the necessary conditions to increase participation by
financial intermediated in the Project.  This was done by increasing the
commissions to banks, increasing the Government's share of risk takinR, and
allowing participating banks to increase their rediscount quotas with the
Central Bank.
11.        Beeides increasing the availability of funds to SSIs and the
anticipated creation of an estimated 5200 new jobs, the benefits expected
from the Project included the strengthening of the agencies dealing with
SSIs, demonstrating to participating commercial banks the attractiveness of
lending to SSIs, and improving their appraisal and follow-up procedures.
12.        As noted in the appraisal report, the Tunisian institutions were
to take an active part in the Project's implementation. The Project gave



- 4 -
specific  support  to  institutional  strengthening.    The  breakdown  of
responsibility among Tunisian institutions was to be the followings
(M)  The Central Bank: The loan was to be administered by the
Central Bank, who woald submit periodically to the Bank
applications for withdrawal and pass the Bank funds to
the participating banks according to disbursements
procedures agreed upon with the Bank;
(ii)  The Participating Banks:  All Tunisian commercial banks
had access  to the Loan.   Participating banks were
responsible for subproject appraisals, disbursement and
collection. They were required to finance out of their
own resources at least 20Z of the subproject cost and
bear part of the credit risk; and
(iii)  Investment Promotion Agency (API):   Its role was to
assist the participating banks in appraising the sub-
projects as to their economic, financial and technical
viability, and establishing the eligibility of sub-
projects for Pank financing. Approvals by API and the
Bank were required before committing funds for a sub-
project.
13.        The breakdown of responsibilities and procedures,  relatively
complex and cumbersome, was intended to strengthen the capabilities of the
relevant institutions dealing the SSIs which often had had little experience
with investment financing.   As a result, however,  several banks (which
initially at least could not deal with the procedures) were not keen to
participate in th' Project. As explained below (para. 16) this was one of
the reasons for the slow pace of Loan commitment and disbursement.
14.        Over its implementation period, the Project had to undergo a series
of amendments to its original design. These changes were: (a) increasing
the maximum cost per job created, for a subproject to be eligible; (b)
increasing the maximum investment cost per subproject; (c) creating a
revolving fund with the Central Bank to deal with delays between subproject
approval and disbursement. Such amendments were less a deficiency in the
Project design than a reflection of the Project's experimental nature. The
Project design could be faulted, however, for not indexing the subproject
eligibility criteria for inflation, especially given the acknowledged risk
of project implementation delay.
V. Project Implementation
15.        The Project suffered from significant and perennial delays in
commitments and disbursements.   The Commitment Date was postponed three
times, from the appraisal estimate of June 30, 1984 to June 30, 1988. As a
result,  the  Closing  Date  was  postponed  from  December  31,  1986  to
December 31, 1988.



16.        There are a number of reasons for the slow commitments and dis-
bursements. First, commercial banks were reluctant, to participate in the
loan since they considered SSI investment risky and alternative and cheaper
sources of financing for such investments were available. Furthermore, the
banks considered the administrative, appraisal, etc. procedures cumbersome
and lifficult to follow, and a few failed to understand the potential bene-
fits (to them and the subborrowers) of the Project. The result was that nine
banks, fewer than expected, participated; of these, the most active were the
small and medium sized banks.
17.        A second reason for che slow pace of project implementation was
the set of eligibility criteria adopted. The 14-month delay between loan
signature and effectivrness, and the unanticipated inflation rates, made the
maximum invertment cost per job and the maximum investment size too low. A
number of potential subborrowers, eligible at the time of the appraisal, sub-
sequently became ineligible as result. Another reason was the underestima-
tion of the average foreign exchange cost of a subproject to be financed.
In response to these probleme, the Bank amended these criteria a number of
times, with the result of commitments and disbursements picking up
eventually.
1L.        The third reason was the lengthiness of administrative procedures.
It took about five to seven weeks to get a subproject, submitted by a
participating bank, approved by API and the Wcrld Bank. It took another 90
days from the authorih.tion of withdrawal by the Bank to the participating
banks receiving the funds. Since most banks were reluctant to pre-finance
the subloans, implementation of the subprojects was delayed. As a solution,
a revolving fund was established in the Central Bank for the purpose of pre-
financing, and the Central Bank was invited to apply more frequently for
withdrawal authorizations.
19.        Finally, the overall economic climate in the country had a detri-
mental effect on the Project. Ir the latter part of its implementation, a
recession led to further delays in commitments and disbursements.   TIe
economic slowdown, coupled with investment saturation of certain SSI
subsectors led to a slowdown in investment demand. Furthermore, in 1985,
Tunisia faced a severe foreign exchange shortage that resulted in import
controls being instituted in 1986 (they were removed a year later).   In
parallel, the Tunisian Dinar was devalued, with the consequence of Bank
disbursements decreasing against expenditures in local currencies.
20.        In retrospect, the Bank appraisal report, though mentioning it as
a risk, failed to fully realize the potential reluctance of commercial banks
to participate in the Project. The cumbersomeness of the Project procedures
and the extensive documentation required from all the parties involved had
much to do with such reluctance. The supervision missions took account of
these issues and simpler procedures were adopted in the second SSI loan.
Indexation of the eligibility criteria on inflation would have had a positive
effect on the implementation of the project. Finally, the economic slowdown
was not anticipated.



-6-
VI. Project Results
21.        As of August 1988, commitments totalled US$29.3 million (or 96Z of
the original amount envisaged by the SAR).  This smount partially financed
170 subprojects (302 more than estimated by the SAR) with an estimated total
cost of US$46.35 million.  These subprojects created an estimated 4100 new
jobs (21X below the SAR estimate) and are distributed as follows: 24.1K in
the electro-mechanic industries, 19.3? in textile and leather, 15.2S in
construction material, 13.3Z in food processing, 13.52 in wood, paper and
plastic, and 82 in miscellaneous sectors. Of all the subprojects, 42K had
a total investment cost below DT 250,000, while the rest ranged between DT
25k0,000 and DT 500,000. Most subprojects were creations while only 5? were
extensions of existing ventures.
22.        It is too early to judge the financial and economic results of
these subprojects since most have only recently started commercial operation.
The assessment of Bank missions, however, based on the records and field
visits to subborrowers, has been positive in this regard. This reflects the
overall quality of subproject preparation. General observations also indi-
cate a better inter-industry integration, an increased emphasis on labor
intensive investments, and a positive impact on the banks willingness to
finance SSIs. Serious shortcomings however, remain as regard API'a ability
to provide subproject supervision and follow-up, and the ability of its staff
to offer valuable consulting services to SSIs regarding operational,
financial and marketing management.
23.        As indicated in para. 21, the Project's employment generation has
been somewhat below expectations. This is explained by the SAR underestima-
tion of the ave'age investment cost per new job.   Furthermore, Tunisia
witnessed several substantial wage increases that discouraged labor intensive
projects. Finally, the Bank raised the maximum overall cost and cost per job
for eligible subprojects, and increased its share of financing from 50? to
56?, the estimated average foreign exchange cost component of subprojects.
An ex-post calculation indicated that these nominal changes reflected real-
term increased, with the possible adverse consequence of encouraging rela-
tively capital intensive subprojects. These differences with expectations
remain overall small and as a result, thi employment objective of the project
has been satisfactory.
24.        The dist-ribution of the subprojects by subsector and investment
cost size was also satisfactory. As exDected, most of the subprojects were
in subsectors which traditionall- comprise small enterprises and are
relatively labor-intensive. Furthermore, nearly half of the subprojects had
investments below DT 250,000 reflecting the success of the Government's
efforts to improve the access of SSIs to institutional finance (para. 5)2.
2 75Z of the subprojects were partially financed by FOPRODI, a Government
fund that provides incentives in the form of reimbursable capital
contributions and subsidized loans to entrepreneurs starting a new
industrial activity and lacking personal assets.



The SAR estimated that 501 of the sDbprojects would fall within that
investment-size category, and this was effectively confirmed.
25.        The objective of the Project's technical assistance component was
the institutional strengthening of the capabilities of API.   The Bank
financed two foreign experts (industrial and fina"'ial) to help API in its
roles (see para. 9).   Both API and the Bank j  ,id their contributions
valuable as reflected by the former's increased involvement in subprojects
appraisal and technological advice. As the majority of subprojects neared
the stage of operatf of: maturity, API should have become more involved in
operational and m-;geral assistance.   For API to be effective in this
regard, more train   i.i its staff would have been required.  The result of
API assistance to   r_.,a .cial banks for preparing feasibility studies was not
as satisfactory.  'ihough API sponsored several training seminars for the
banks, it is recognized that much more should have been done in this regard.
26.        In spite of the benefits derived from the TA component, API con-
tinued to be too much of an administrative/technocratic body to effectively
serve SSIs. API's staff had little experience relevant to SSI operations;
they were regarded by the SSI beneficiaries as too close to the administra-
tion. As a result, and while monitoring API's restructuring efforts, the
decision was made that part of the technical assistance and advice to SSIs
in the Bank's subsequent operation, would be better provided through an
entity closer to small scale entrepreneurs and to the private sector: UTICA,
the national entrepreneurs' association.
VII. Proiect Sustainability
27.        The Project was followed by a second SSI loan (Loan 2911-TUN, that
became effective in February 1989), in the amount of US$28 million. Half a
million dollars of this loan was earmarked for technical assistance to API
as a follow up to the TA component of the first loan. Within the SSI II
loan, a technical assistance program for UTICA was also designed, and
external financing was arranged.
28.        The Project is clearly seen as sustainable.  SSIs continue to be
regarded by the Tunisians and the Bank as an essential element in the growth
and equi'librium of the manufacturing sector, and the Goverranent is still
strongly committed to their development. Their cost as regards job creation
is still less than that associated with larger investments, and SSIs play a
pivotal role in creating inter-industrial integration and assisting the
economic and regional decentralization.
29.        Tunisia has been undergoing a fundamental restructuring of its
financial sector.   Interest rates have been partially liberalized, prior
investment approvals are no longer required, measures have been enacted to
improve banking competition,  and the Money Market has been vitaltzed.
Moreover, API is being transformed into an agency responsible primarily for
industrial promotion and for providing technical assistance to investors.
The success of these efforts would have a direct bearing on SSI financing.
The changes underway (supported by several Bank adjustment loans) are all



giving positive support to the development of the SSI sector.  Given the
Government's strong commitment to these programs, there is little risk that
the second-SSI project would face the difficulties of the first.
VIII. Bank and Borrower Performauce
30.        For this Project, an interactive relationship was established
between the Bank and the Borrower form Project identification onwards. The
Project consisted in implementing the Government's strategic plan regarding
SSIs.  This plan itself was a result of the dialogue between the Project
implementation were diagnosed early through meetings between the various
parties participating in the Project and the Bank missions.   Solutions
adopted often reflected discussions between the Bank missions and the local
authorities. As a result, the ProJect's objectives were achieved.
31.        The problems encountered by the Project were mainly exogenous,
reflecting economic circumstances beyond the Bank's or the relevant
government authorities' control. The other problems (cumbersome procedures
and documentation requirements, long delays between commitments and
disbursements, poor dissemination of information, weak incentives to banks
participation, etc.) were promptly dealt with, inter alia through amendments
to the loan agreement. The significant number of these amendments reflects
the fact the the Project was still experimental and, as such, was very useful
for arriving at arrangements operationally adapted for promoting and assist-
ing the development of SSIs.  The second SSI loan took into account the
shortcomings identified under the first loan. Overall, this project has been
successful.
IX. Project Documentation and Data
32.        The SAR served as useful framework of reference to both the Bank
and the Borrower during implementation. Even though more amendments were
introduced to the eligibility criteria, the Project objectives and procedures
never parted from the guidelines set in the SAR.
33.        The data base for this project is not fully satisfactory.  The huge
and complex documentation requirements created a challenge to the unit
responsible for compiling and recording the data; this resulted in signifi-
cant gaps in the documentation. The Project also experienced a number of
changes in task managers, with minor adverse effects on the uniformity of
the data base.



-9-
PART III. STATISTICAL INFOMIATION
Table ls Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title           Purpose              Approval        Status
…________._._____,___________________________________._________________________
1. MII                Assist subprojects in        1982    Preparing PCR
EMI sector
2. Industry IV        Modernize and expand         1984    Preparing PCR
Foundry Plant
3. Export Industries  Finance viable               1985    Next Supervisory
Export projects                      mission 0.9/89
4. EMI                Assist Develop. Bank         1985    Next supervisory
in Financing DIa projects            mission 09/89
5. SMII               Lines of Credit to           1988    Last supervisory
finance SHIs                         mission 09189



- 10 -
Table 2s Project Timetable
Date          Date            Date
Item                        Planned       Revised         Actual
1.  Identification/Prepar.       05/07/79      05/07/79         05107179
2.  Appraisal                    03/24180      03/24180         03/24180
3.  Negotiations                 03102/18      03102/81         03/02181
4.  Board Approval               04114181      04114181         04114181
5.  Signing Date                 05/15/81      05/15/81         05/15/81
6.  Effective Date               07/21/82      07/21/82         07/21/82
7.  Committment Date             06/30/84      06/30186         06/30/88
8.  Closing Date                 12131/86      12/31/87         12/31/88
9.  Completion Date              06/30/87      12/31/88         06/30/89



- 11 -
Table 3S Loan Disbursements and Commitments
Cumulative Zstimate and Actual Disbursements
Appraisal Disbursements Zstimate (US$ million)                  30.0
Actual Disbursements (US$ million)                              27.4
Actual as percentage of Estimate                                91.3
Date of Final Disbursement                                      11116189
Amount Cancelled (US$ million)                                  2.6



- 12 -
Table 4g Project Costs and Financing Proiect Financing
(M illion)
Source               Planned             Actual        Percentage
IBRD
Line of Credit       29.35               25.60           67.0
T.A.                  0.65                0.65          100.0
Commercial Banks         11.74                9.10           77.5
Equity and FOPRODI       17.61               11.00           62.5
…-----------------------------------------------------------------__-------
Total                59.35               46.35           78.1



- 13 -
Table 5a Project Results
Appraisal                Closing Date
Indicators                       Estimate                   Estimates
1. Number of Subprojects                130                         170
2.  Number of jobs created            5,200                      4,100
3. Subprojects costing less
than D.T. 250,000 (1)              0.5                       0.42
4.  Total Investment (0 Kill.)        59.35                      46.35



- 14 -
Table 6as Use of Bank Resources
A. Missions
Stage of                             o
Project              Month/   Number of Days in   Specialisation!,         ;tformancej/
Cycle                Year     Persons   Field      Represented            &tina Status
1. Identification  09116131      1
2. Appraisal        03/7182      2            3
3. Supervisory      02118/83     3            9              1/2               2
4. Supervisory      05114/83     1           12                2               2
5. Supervisory      02/24/84     2                           2/2                2
6. Supervisory      07127184     2            5                4                2
7. Supervisory      09/27184     3            9              214                2
S. Supervisory      06/03/85     2            6              2/4                2
9. Supervisory      09130/87     2           14             314                2
1/   1.  Division Chief
2. Project Officer
3. Loan Officer
4. Financial Analyst
21   2.  Moderate Problems
Table 6bs Use of Bank Resources
(Staff Weeks)
B. Staff Input
Total Staff Inputs             39.8 staff weeks
of which
Division Staff                 37.3 staff weeks
Others                          2.5 staff weeks



