Document of
The World Bank                     Ff1  COy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.. 3266-TUN
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 25, 1981
Regional Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dinar (D)
US$ 1 = D 0.40
D 1 - US$ 2.50
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFI       Agence Fonciere Industrielle (Industrial Estates Agency)
API       Agence de Promotion des Investissements (Industrial Investment
Promotion Agency)
BCT       Banque Centrale de Tunisie
BDET      Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
BFT       Banque Franco-Tunisienne
BIAT      Banque Internationale Arabe de Tunisie
BNT       Banque Nationale de Tunisie
BS        Banque du Sud
CFCT      Credit Foncier et Commercial de Tunisie
CNEI      Centre National des Etudes Industrielles (National Center for
Industrial Studies)
FOPRODI   Fonds de Promotion et de Decentralisation Industrielle (Industrial
Promotion and Decentralization Fund)
SSI       Small Scale Industries
STB       Societe Tunisienne de Banque
UBCI      Union Bancaire pour le Commerce et l'Industrie
UIB       Union Internationale de Banques
UTICA     Union Tunisienne de l'Industrie, du Commerce et de l'Artisanat



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA: FIRST SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION .................1..                ..... l
II.   THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR ...........1
Performance and Issues ................                 1
Plan Realization and Prospects.                         2
III.   THE SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY SUBSECTOR .........  ......          2
Structure and Performance .....................         2
Basic Characteristics of SSIs.                          3
Performance of SSIs.                                    3
SSI Development Constraints.                            4
Program of Support for SSIs.                            5
Incentive System for SSIs.                              7
Administrative Support to SSIs.                         7
IV.   THE FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ITS ROLE ON SSI'S.                   8
Central Bank's Role and Monetary Policy                 8
Constraints of the Monetary Policy on the Banks         9
Cost of Capital .10
Financial Intermediaries and SSI Financing             10
SSI Financing .11
V. THE PROJECT .14
Project Objectives .14
Project Components .15
A. Financial Assistance .15
Target Group and Eligibility Criteria .                15
Role of Participating Banks .....      ..............  16
Project Appraisal Procedures ....      ...............  17
Disbursement Procedures .....      ..................  19
Terms and Conditions of Subloans ....     ..........   20
Remuneration of Participating Banks .... .......       21
Central Bank Incentive .....      ...................  21
Risk-Sharing Scheme ......      .....................  21
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal
missions, consisting of Mr. F. Batzella (Chief of Mission), Mr. J.F.
Landeau and Ms. K. Nguyen, that visited Tunisia in December 1979 and
April 1980. A post-appraisal mission with Mr. Landeau (Chief of Mission)
and Ms. Nguyen followed in November 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                        Page No.
B.   Technical Assistance .....        ..................     22
SSI Dialogue between the Government
and  the  Bank   .............................         24
Proposed Loan Amount .......................24
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .....        .................     25
The Benefits ............................25
The Risks ........................                       26
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS ........................                      27
A.   General Features of the Loan ....       ...........      27
B.   Agreements and Understandings to be Reached
During Negotiations Concerning the Tech-
nical Assistance Arrangements        ............      28
C.   Agreements and Understandings to be Reached
During Negotiations Concerning the Proposed
Line ot Credit ......       .....................      28
D.   Agreement and Understanding to be Reached
During Negotiations Concerning Policies and
Measures for SSIs .....       ...................      29
Conditions of Effectiveness ....       ............      28
Annex 1 Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File ...........                                    30



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     This report appraises a project to provide financial and technical
assistance to Small Scale Industries (SSIs) in Tunisia. The proposed proj-
ect follows from the $5 million pilot SSI project (Loan 1505-TUN, approved
December 23, 1977) associated with the seventh industrial credit line to
BDET.
1.02     The project would include three main elements, namely: (i) a $29.35
million line of credit to the Government to be onlent to eligible SSIs
through the intermediation of all Tunisian financial institutions willing to
participate in the scheme; (ii) provision of technical assistance to new and
existing SSI, chiefly through Agence de Promotion des Investissements (API),
a government agen:y; and (iii) technical assistance to API to enable it to
fulfill its function of reviewing subproject appraisal reports, for which
the Bank loan includes a provision of $650,000.
II. THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
Performance and Issues
2.01     During the last decade, the performance of Tunisia's manufacturing
sector has been good. Real growth in the sector's value added increased
from 6.4% p.a. during the 1960s to some 9.7% during 1970-1978. The manu-
facturing share in total gross fixed capital formation increased from 11.7%
in 1970 to about 20% in 1979. In response to the Government's objective of
developing the private sector, private investments increased from 35% of
total manufacturing investment during 1969-1972 to 58.5% during 1976-1979.
The public sector retains control over a sizeable number of larger enter-
prises (especially chemicals, construction materials and electrical mechani-
cal projects) which still dominate the Tunisian industrial structure. In
1979, manufacturing was the leading sector in the Tunisian economy for its
ability to generate employment (20,000 jobs or 45% of total new jobs). The
subsectors most active in terms of employment creation are: Textiles,
Electrical-Mechanical Products, Construction Materials and Wood/Paper/
Miscellaneous Products.  In 1979, manufacturing exports amounted to some
D 313 million, or 43% of all merchandise exports (crude oil exports
excluded). These results have been fostered by the investment incentive
framework and the establishment of institutions to promote and assist indus-
try, such as Agence de Promotion des Investissements (API), and Agence
Fonciere Industrielle (AFI). 1/ There remain, however, several sectoral
issues 2/ of which the following are partially addressed by the proposed
project: a complex system of administrative controls with regards to
1/ See Annex 24 of SAR for the seventh credit line to BDET for more details.
2/ See Tunisia-Industrial Sector Memorandum dated March 7, 1980 (Report No.
2751-TUN, Yellow Cover) for more details on the manufacturing sector as
a whole.



- 2 -
investment criteria, wage/price structure, tariff protection and import
quotas; and weaknesses in the incentive scheme, particularly with regards to
a more efficient creation of employment, the development of inter- and
intra-industry linkages, and the decentralization ot manutacturing
activities outside of Tunis and the coastal cities.
Plan Realization and Prospects
2.02     In spite of good results in manufacturing, real growth in the
manufacturing sector has been slower than targeted for the Fifth Plan (1977-
1981). Actual manufacturing investment for the first three years, at about
459.0 million Dinars, represented only 48% of the five-year projected total
for the sector, essentially because of delays in a number of public proj-
ects. About 59,000 new jobs were created by manufacturing industries,
representing some 59% of the target set for the sector for the whole Plan
period. Finally, exports of major manufactured commodities (olive oil,
phosphates, textiles) were subject to considerable demand fluctuations in
the world market.
2.03     Preparation of the Sixth Plan (1982-1986) is just starting and,
therefore, no official projections are yet available. It is expected that
the Government will pursue the same development objectives and policies as
in the past two Plans. The outlook for the manufacturing sector over the
1982-1986 period is favorable. The Government is likely to put more stress
on productivity, employment creation and exports. A larger share of the
planned direct productive investments would be allocated to small- and
medium-scale industries which can create employment at lower cost per job,
contribute to industrial decentralization and help integrate the industrial
sector.
III. THE SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY SUBSECTOR
A. Structure and performance
3.01     No comprehensive survey of the SSI sector has been conducted so far
in Tunisia. The Industrial Censuses have only covered manufacturing enter-
prises of 10 or more workers 1/, excluding from statistical data handi-
crafts as well as the bulk of SSIs with less than 10 workers. It is felt,
however, that, based on information collected from field visits to SSIs, the
characteristics of larger SSIs (with more than 9 workers) generally apply to
the smaller ones as well. The target group of this project includes all
SSIs which employ less than 50 workers (para 5.03).
1/ Even so, the listing of enterprises covered by the Industrial Census is
out of date, and does not include all enterprises of 10 or more workers
that actually exist in Tunisia now.



-3-
Basic Characteristics of SSIs
3.02     Tunisian SSIs, generally, have the same basic~ features ot small
manufacturing firms as those in other countries at th- same level of devel-
opment. The SSI firm owner is typically a crattsman-cntrepreneur who has
started either as an apprentice, a merchant, or a migrant worker who has
picked up new skills abroad. More recently, small industrialists estab-
lished with FOPRODI assistance (para 4.15) tended to originate from the
technical and administrative statf of larger enterprises or of Government
agencies. Most small entrepreneurs are still unfamiliar with basic account-
ing methods, inventory planning and other management techniques. As typical
of a transition stage from traditional workshops to mire modern small pro-
duction units, the production characteristics ot Tunisian SSIs vary greatly,
even within the same subsector:  technology is a mixture of very modern
machinery and almost archaic equipment; workshops have poor layout but are
housed in over-designed buildings. Because of their zmall size, SSIs,
generally, have to rely on wholesalers or other middlemen for the supply ot
their raw materials and for the marketing of their products, resulting in
higher costs and, at times, long delays.
3.03     According to the 1978 Industrial Census, there were 850 SSIs in
Tunisia (defined as firms with employment between 10-50 workers, excluding
handicrafts).  These represented some 65% of all manufacturing enterprises
surveyed (excluding handicrafts and firms with less than 10 workers), and
accounted for 19% of total manufacturing employment. They generated about
13% of total manufacturing value added. Their investment in 1978 represen-
ted 11.5% of all manufacturing investments. The subsectoral distribution of
SSI is dominated by four activities mainly oriented towards production ot
consumer goods for local markets: food products, electrical/mechanical
products, construction materials, and textile/leather procucts. In 1978,
these activities accounted for about 70% of the number, employment, value-
added, and 90% of the annual investment of all SSI establishments. In
general, the geographical distribution of SSIs follows the same pattern for
larger industries, with the majority concentrated in the greater Tunis area
and the regions bordering the east coast. There is indication however that
SSIs have responded favorably to the government's policies ot decentralizing
industrial activities towards the less-developed regions of the country;
30% of FOPRODI projects and the resulting employment creation approved by
API (para 3.09) are to be located in the Northwest, Center West and South in
1979, compared to 19% in 1976.
Performance of SSIs
3.04     According to the Industrial Censuses, growth in real annual SSI
investment (estimated at 1970 prices) has been quite good, at 8.6% p.a.
between 1973 and 1978. SSI employment has been increasing at some 7% p.a.
over the same period, keeping well in pace with the growth registered for
larger firms. SSI real labor productivity (as measured by value added per
worker in 1970 prices) has essentially remained stable at about D 1,000 per
worker between 1973 and 1978, compared to the slight increase in value added



- 4 -
per worker for the larger firms (D 1,385 in 1973 to D 1,542 in 1978). This
quasi-stagnation observed for SSI labor productivity compared to the growth
in 5SI investments may be explained by the fact that most SSI investments
realized during this period may have been for renewal of outdated capital
stock. No data on fixed assets are available to allow further investigation
of the SSIs' efficiency in utilizing capital and labor in their production
process. Partial data show that SSIs tend to be relatively more labor
intensive than their larger counterparts. Statistics about FOPRODI-assisted
projects indicate an average investment cost per job of D 4,434 in 1979
(about $11,000), which is 40X of the average cost per job of larger
non-FOPRODI projects approved by API in 1979. Overall data suggest that, in
general, SSI is a dynamic sector, particularly in its ability to create
employment, and deserves further promotional efforts from the government.
SSI Development Constraints
3.05     The problems affecting the development ot Tunisian SSIs are not
different from those observed in other countries at similar stages of
development. They can be grouped into two major categories: problems that
exist within the small-scale firm, and institutional problems stemming from
the Government's policies for SSI development.
3.06     The internal problems which affect adversely the productivity of
SSIs and constrain their growth include: limited access to financing, defi-
cient production planning and accounting-management, poor product design and
plant layout, at times inappropriate selection of equipment, and lack of
quality control. Because of their small size, SSIs also suffer from short-
ages of raw materials (most of which are indirectly imported through whole-
sale dealers), and limited marketing capabilities (channeling through
several intermediaries, thus adding further to the production costs). To
help resolve these constraints, mechanisms for financial and technical
assistance to SSIs have been set up, and they will be further strengthened
in the context of the proposed project (paras. 3.10-3.15).
3.07     The institutional problems faced by SSIs, which this project will
also address, are mainly: a limited access to institutional financing (para
4.14); a system of investment incentives linked to criteria into which SSIs
do not fit well, such as the absolute size of employment creation and value
of exports; 1/ and a dispersed institutional responsibility toward SSIs
(e.g., the administration of regulations affecting SSIs lies within several
1/ To be eligible for the investment incentives of Law 1974-74 a new firm
must create at least 10 permanent jobs, which eliminates the bulk of
smaller workshops. Furthermore, firms employing 10 to 15 workers
receive less concessions than larger firms, and the choice of technology
is left unaffected. Law 1972-38 providing incentives for export-
oriented enterprises benefitted mostly foreign firms without however
promoting local subcontracting with smaller Tunisian firms. For more
details, see Tunisia "Review of the Electrical-Mechanical Subsector,"
Report No. 2666-TUN.



Ministries and GoVernment agencies: Ministry of National Economy, Ministry
of Planning and Finance, API, etc.) (paras. 3.16-3.19).
3.08     The curr=nt Plan has given greater attention to the SSI sub-sector
because of its potential contribution to further creation of employment and
geographic decent.alization of industrial activities. As discussed in the
paragraphs below, measures have been taken by the Government to help resolve
the above constraints, and further efforts will be made in the context or
thc -roposed project to achieve an accelerated and more effective SSI
development in the future.
Program of Supporc. for SSIs
3.09     Financial Assistance.  The first change in the Government's pre-
vious attitude of benign neglect toward SSIs' specific needs was the crea-
tion, in 1974, of the FOPRODI, a budget-financea fund intended to encourage
SSI promoters, especially those with limited assets, and those located out-
side of Tunis. between 1976 (year in which it became operative) and 1979,
the FOPRODI has helped finance some 375 projects, with total investments ot
D 43.0 million. The teatures and impact of the FOPRODI scheme are discussed
in paras. 4.13-4.15. Further actions are detailed in the financial
component of the proposed project design (paras. 5.03-5.24).
3.10     Technical Assistance.  In recognition of the technical difficulties
encountered by SSIs during their transition from traditional small shops to
small but more efficient, modern production units, and in the context of the
Bank Pilot Line of credit to SSIs, the Government has established, in 1978,
a program of technical assistance for all SSIs in Tunisia. The program was
originally organized around the regional network ot API; it was recently
joined by another public agency, CNEI. API and CNEI share the same facili-
ties at their seven local oftices. Various degrees of informal advising of
SSIs are also being provided by other public or private agencies such as AFI
for industrial intrastructure and land; and UTICA, a federation ot Tunisian
employers to promote private business interests. Generally commercial banks
do not provide technical assistance to SSIs. BDET has set up an SSI unit 1/
in Tunis in the context of the Bank Pilot Line. In the whole of Tunisia, as
of now, there are about 40 fulltime professionals devoted to extend techni-
cal assistance to SSIs.
3.11     API's technical assistance program is aimed at helping SbIs with
the problems encountered during project processing, and especially during
project implementation (production/financial management, marketing). Its
regional network comprises 14 extension agents (two for each local office).
These have been trained abroad and their activities are coordinated and
supplemented by a core of six experts (including two expatriates) operating
from API's headquarters in Tunis. API's activities consist of custom-
designed consultations with individual enterprises for specific problems and
collective actions (such as workshops/seminars on elementary accounting
1/ There is at present one full time statt to deal with BDET's SSI projects.



-6-
principles, general management guidelines; dissemination of information
through questions-and-answers sessions and various technical publications ot
Who-produces-What). Since its beginning in 1978, API's staff have provided
personalized assistance (from project preparation/processing to implementa-
tion) to an estimated 100 enterprises. Its collective/informative actions
are estimated to have reached at least 500 SSIs.
3.12     Available statistics on API's services to SSIs during 1979 suggest
a lopsided concentration of API's assistance on new SSIs versus existing,
ongoing concerns; on accounting/production management matters versus techni-
cal production and marketing questions; and on individual/custom designed
consultations versus collective actions. This tendency is somewhat imposed
upon API by its clients' attitudes toward technical assistance and to some
extent, the newness of its own experience in the field. API is conscious of
this imbalance and has started serious efforts to widen the impact of its
services.
3.13     CNEI has, because of its long-standing tradition of doing sectoral
studies, thus far concentrated its activities on helping SSIs during the
project preparation stage in carrying out their project teasibility studies
at a modest fee. CNEI has a total of 60 engineers and economists, upon whom
it draws to provide SSI assistance. Of these staff, 2 are devoted tull-time
to SSIs at the Tunis headquarters, and about 14 are regional agents, doing
SSI work. As of end 1979, CNEI had prepared 250 feasibility studies for SSI
projects. CNEI's effectiveness until now has been more limited than API's,
mainly because of the recent and limited SSI experience of its staff.
Although there is no clear delineation in their respective scope of activi-
ties, both API and CNEI have developed their own type of clientele, while
still maintaining close cooperation and coordination at the regional working
level. As the needs of SSIs for technical assistance are still much larger
than the availability of such services in the near future, it is not neces-
sary to rigidly delineate the scope of actions of either API and CNEI. CNEI
is currently seeking to expand its present activities, and diversify into
technical and management assistance to its old as well as new SSI customers
(see para. 5.28).
3.14     Undoubtedly, definite progress has been made, in the past three
years, to help SSIs, old and new alike, resolve some of the problems of a
more efficient, modern production unit. The scope of the existing technical
assistance activities remains, however, fairly limited in terms of number of
SSIs and types of services rendered, mainly due to the shortage of staff
with practical experience, and the reluctance of many SSIs to recognize and
disclose their problems, and/or to trust outside advice.
3.15     For the future, both API and CNEI will need to strengthen their
staffing and widen the scope of their technical assistance services. Also,
new features should be added to the system of technical assistance to SSIs,
such as promotion of subcontracting between small and larger enterprises,
assistance in standardization, quality monitoring of selected products, and
marketing. In the long-run, reliance on private consulting firms for speci-
fic technical assistance actions to complement API's or CNEI's services may



-7-
also become an attractive proposition to be considered. Specific actions to
be carried out during the next two years have been reviewed and discussed
between the Bank and API and CNEI (paras. 5.27 and 5.28). This dialogue
will be continued in the context of the proposed project (para. 5.31).
Incentive System for SSIs
3.16     The Tunisian authorities recognize that SSIs do not fit well into
the existing standard incentive scheme to industry. In the context of its
industrial sector work 1/, the bank has initiated a fruitful dialogue with
the Government on investment incentives for SSIs. In December 1979, the
Government has made some modifications to Law 1974-74 to allow for slightly
higher benefits for SSI projects 2/. The main tenor of the fiscal exemp-
tions under Law 1974-74 continue, however, to favor in a disproportionate
fashion the larger investment projects and the larger number of work places
created, without consideration for the efficiency of such employment.
3.17     Modifications to both the Law 1974-74 and 1972-38 are now being
proposed and examined within the Government, to take into account expe-
rience, as well as to reflect the sectoral priorities and industrial
decentralization policies of the Government. In particular, the existing
incentives are expected to be further fine-tuned by breaking down the
current employment, regional and sectoral incentive-eligible categories into
new, more refined classifications. Special emphasis would also be given to
promoting sub-contracting. Finally, a subsidy (in the amount ot 1% of total
investment cost, with a maximum of D 5,000) is also being examined to help
industrialists cover partially or fully the costs of project teasibility
studies. These changes are expected to be established in the context of the
Sixth Plan. They are in the right direction, but more remains to be done.
This would be pursued further in the context of our future sector dialogue
with the Government as well as in the context of this proposed project
(para. 5.31).
Administrative Support to SSIs
3.18     There is at present no single agency catering exclusively to
SSIs' needs in Tunisia. The responsibility for implementing the various
1/ See the Tunisia; Review of the Electrical and Mechanical Industries
(Report No. 2666 TUN, dated June 4, 1980) and the Draft Industrial
Sector Memorandum dated March 10, 1980 (available in Project File) for
more details.
2/ They are, namely: investments creating less than 20 jobs are now fully
exempted from customs duties and turnover taxes on imported capital
goods needed for production; expansion projects creating at least 10
additional jobs benefit now from the same advantages as new projects
creating the same number of jobs.



-8-
administrative policies and measures affecting SSI is scattered among
several different Government agencies (Ministry of National Economy,
Ministry of Planning and Finance, API, CNEI, AFI, etc.). Lack of communica-
tion and unified criteria among these agencies have hampered the development
of consistent policies and of integrated programs in support of SSIs. The
bureaucratic maze through which SSI promoters must go through at various
stages of their project cycle and the absence of a recognized spokesman
within the Government are deterrents to the promotion of the small entre-
preneurship in Tunisia.
3.19     A Committee for SSIs was created in 1978 under the aegis of the
Minister of Industry to encourage coordination between the institutions
participating in the FOPRODI scheme (API, Central Bank, Treasury, financial
institution, etc.). The meetings called by this Committee have helped raise
general consciousness about the role of SSIs and their specific needs. This
Committee, however, did not have the mandate and staff to formulate strategy
guidelines for an accelerated SSI development. The Government has thus
recently created within the Ministry of National Economy a new Department
for Small Scale Industries and Modern Handicrafts to coordinate all policy
activities and foreign aid for assistance to SSIs. The head of this new
Department has been appointed and preparations are being made to recruit the
appropriate staff. This is a positive step. The Government has agreed to
keep the Bank informed of the work progress of this new Department, and to
continue the SSI policy dialogue already started with the Bank (para. 5.31).
IV. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ITS ROLE ON SSI'S
4.01     The financial system in Tunisia is characterized by a relatively
high number of banks and financial institutions per inhabitant. The finan-
cial community is composed of ten commercial banks, seventeen local and
mutual credit banks (Caisses Locales de Credit Mutuel), two development
finance companies (BDET and COFIT, the latter specializing in tourism
financing), a small investment bank (Banque Generale d'Investissement, which
is entirely controlled by Tunisian private interests), five portfolio
management institutions affiliated with either one of the banks or one of
the several insurance companies, two savings institutions (Caisse d'Epargne
Nationale Tunisienne and Caisse Nationale d'Epargne-Logement), and four
offshore banks (whose activity is limited to foreign currency financing).
Central Bank's Role and Monetary Policy
4.02     The banking system is controlled by the Banque Centrale de Tunisie
(BCT) which, in addition to its function as currency-issuing bank and
custodian of foreign currency reserves, acts as banker to the Government and
to the commercial banks. It controls the banks and the credit supply
through a variety of monetary policy instruments: various ratios designed
to monitor the financial structure of the banks (among them the liquidity,



- 9 -
solvency, and development financing ratios), rediscount rate, regulation ot
interest rates on deposits and loans. BCT, however, has relied primarily on
prior approval of credits and on rediscount ceilings to implement the
Government's credit policy which is designed to encourage private investment
while keeping a tight rein on the money supply. While the large industrial
development projects, generally sponsored by public sector enterprises, are
financed by the Government or through direct toreign borrowings, the
authorities rely on the banking system for financing small and medium scale
industrial development projects.
Constraints on the Banks of the Monetary Policy
4.03     The monetary policy imposes two major constraints on the commercial
banks, namely the development ratio and the ceiling on interest rates.
Commercial banks are encouraged to participate in development financing by
the requirement that a percentage of their deposits be transformea into
medium-term loans to the private sector. When this ratio was introduced in
1963, it was set at 5%; it was gradually increased to 18%, its level since
1976. If a bank does not satisfy this requirement, it is penalized by
having the counterpart of its shortfall frozen in a non-interest-bearing
deposit at the Central Bank. In spite of the high opportunity cost in-
volved, only three banks were complying with the 18% ratio at the end of
1979; three other banks were within one point of the required level.
Compared to the end of 1977 and 1978 when eight and six banks respectively
were above the limit, it was more difficult in 1979 for commercial banks to
find bankable medium-term credit projects at the same rate at which their
deposits were growing.
4.04     During 1980, more banks have been able to satisfy the ratio though
it remains a constant concern and operational constraint for most of them.
The Central Bank is currently studying a revision of the ratio definition
that could help the banks meet the transformation target more easily.
Several alternatives are considered with the common objective of letting the
banks know well in advance their transformation target. The banks, thus,
could plan better their medium-term lending strategy; this, in turn, could
facilitate the use of the proposed loan. Because the definition revision
might be implemented when the proposed loan becomes effective, the Central
Bank agreed to keep the Bank informed of any developments in this respect.
If, however, the redefinition is postponed, it will not affect adversely the
project because of additional incentives given to the banks (paras. 5.23-
5.25).
4.05     The ceilings on interest rates imposed by the Government have
deprived the banks of the incentive to take term risks beyond the 18%
requirement and may have caused a rationing of medium- and long-term
credits. 1/ In proportion to total outstanding loans to the economy made by
1/ While the banks earn a spread on short-term financing of about 6%, the
average spread on medium-term credits does not exceed 3.8% which is not
attractive enough to induce the banks to exceed the development ratio.



- 10 -
the commercial banks, medium-term loans are disappointingly low--19% at the
end of March 1980--while long-term loans maturing beyond seven years
accounted for an additional 11%. Consequently, at the same date, as much as
80% of the term deposits and savings accounts received by the banks and 17%
of their special resources (i.e., government long-term loans and government
guaranteed foreign exchange borrowings) were used for granting 54% of all
short-term credits outstanding at the end of March 1980, which is a sub-
optimal allocation of term resources.
Cost of Capital
4.06     Interest rates for rediscountable medium-term credits and long-term
credits for industrial projects (respectively 8.25% and 9% 1/) have been                      r
positive in real terms in recent years and are expected to remain positive
in the future. A balanced budget and strict price controls have maintained
inflation rates at about 7% a year or below. The official retail price
index rose by 5.4% per year on the average between 1970 and 1978. Inflation
was estimated at 5.4% for 1978, 7.6% for 1979, and 9.2% tor 1980. Over the
commitment life of the proposed bank loan, the on-lending rate, assumed to
be 8.25%, will be positive when compared with inflation rates projected to
average 7% for 1981 through 1983.
4.07     Industrial projects located in the less developed regions of
Tunisia are eligible for a five-point (5% )rebate on the interest rate. Out
of the D 363 million of investment agreed to by API in 1979, 20% in number
and 33% in investment volume were eligible for such rebates. This subsidy
has been an effective factor in inducing decentralization of industries and
appears, therefore, justified.
Financial Intermediaries and SSI Financing
4.08     At the end of 1979, the total assets of the ten commercial banks
amounted to D 1,360 million, of which D 950 million were in loans to the
economy; total sight and term deposits amounted to D 882 million. The
degree of concentration is, however, great. Three banks, BNT, STB and BS,
account for 60% of the deposits because they are also the only ones to have
set up a country-wide branch network, although two others, UIB and BIAT, are
in the process of doing the same.
4.09     A certain degree of specialization has developed among the commer-
cial banks. Since its creation by the Government in 1958, just after
Independence, STB has become the largest commercial bank in Tunisia, reach-
ing all sectors of the economy. BNT was created in 1959 as the National
Agricultural Bank; it has since diversified its activities into other sec-
tors, but continues to channel World Bank loans and other special resources
1/ 9% is BDET's nominal on-lending interest rate; with all the commissions
and fees included, it comes to about 9.65%.



-                                       -11l-
to agriculture. Banque du Sud was established in 1968 to stimulate the
economic development of the Tunisian South. UIB and BIAT have been estab-
lished with some foreign capital participation relatively recently and still
have to find an identity of their own in the banking system.
4.10     While commercial banks in Tunisia have limited project appraisal
capacity, they, especially the larger banks, have begun to build up exper-
tise in this respect. The credit departments of the commercial banks
prepare short but competent reports on the projects they finance with medium
term credit. These reports, however, focus on guarantees offered, market
prospects, and projected financial statements of the enterprise, without
providing an adequate analysis of either the choice of technology and the
investment cost estimates, or the economic justification of the project.
For the choice of technology and of equipment, they rely on the feasibility
reports submitted by the promoters and prepared at times by the equipment
suppliers, at times by consultants (such as CNEI, for example). For the
economic justification of projects, the banks rely on the judgement of API,
whose approval of all industrial projects is a condition for their financing.
4.11     BDET.  BDET plays a key role in financing the Tunisian economy,
having granted some 40% of all long-term credits outstanding at the end of
1979 and taken close to 20% of all equity participations (excluding cross-
participations in other banks). In 1979 it provided 30% (on a disbursement
basis) of all investment financing to the private manufacturing industry,
up from 15% in 1965. To support its action, it received seven Bank loans
between 1966 and 1977. A completion report covering the third, fourth, and
fifth loans made in 1969, 1972, and 1973 has been prepared. Its main con-
clusions are that, over the life of these loans (1970-77), considerable
progress in terms of institution building was achieved; a major reorganiza-
tion was carried out in 1972; the credit department stafting was expanded; a
project promotion department and a follow-up division were created; under
Bank guidance, projects appraisal was notably improved.
SSI Financing
4.12     The proportion of the commercial banks' total lending going to SSIs
is difficult to measure because only a few banks keep statistics broken down
by size of projects financed.  Although some banks grant credits to SSIs
they judge to be reasonable risks (generally by virtue of the collateral
they can offer), SSIs usually have difficulty in securing adequate credit.
Two initiatives have been taken in recent years to remedy this problem: the
creation of FOPRODI in 1975 and the Bank's pilot project unaer two 1978
loans to BDET/Government (Loans 1504/1505-TUN).



- 12 -
4.13     The FOPRODI Scheme.  FOPRODI became operational in December 1975.
It is a fund financed with allocations from the State budget and admin-
istered by banks who signed an agreement with the Ministry ot Finance. 1/
It is intended to encourage the sponsors of small industrial projects,
especially those without much capital assets and located outside the Tunis
region. The financial assistance provided to eligible promoters 2/ takes
two forms, which may be combined for the smallest projects:
(a) A personal loan to the promoter to help him put down the equity
(a minimum of 30% of the investment cost). The terms are soft;
repayment over 12 years, including 5 years of grace, and interest
rate of 4%; the only guarantee is an insurance policy on the
promoter's life.                                                                   r
(b) A medium- or long-term loan for up to 10 years (including 3 years
of grace) at 5% interest rate to help finance the smallest SSIs,
whose investment cost is below D 75,000 ($187,500 equivalent).
4.14     375 projects, which probably would not have been promoted and
financed otherwise, were financed between 1976 and 1979. They represented D
43 million of investment and more than 10,000 jobs created. Initially, only
four banks (STB, BNT, BS and UIB) participated in the scheme; BDET and BIAT
joined later. Data for 1979 indicate that out of 145 projects financed,
STB's share was 47%, BNT's 23%, BDET's 16%, BS's 10%, and UIB's 4%; BIAT has
only been active since 1980. The commercial banks have focused on the
smallest category (less than D 75,000) whereas BDET directed the majority of
its financing to the middle category (between D 75,000 and D 250,000).
4.15     By providing equity financing to SSI promoters, FOPRODI has suc-
ceeded in improving their access to bank credit. The scheme has, however,
some deficiencies. First, the application procedures are somewhat complex
for the eligible promoters. Second, eligibility for FOPRODI assistance does
not automatically guarantee that the project will receive the necessary com-
plementary financing from the participating banks, in particular for working
capital needs. Third, FOPRODI encourages only new projects and its assis-
tance in financing the credit part of investments is limited only to the
smallest projects. Because of these shortcomings, FOPRODI-assisted projects
represented a small proportion (10%) of the 1,433 projects under D 500,000
of investment approved by API in 1979.
1/  For more details, see Annex 24 of the Staff Appraisal Report for the 7th
line of credit to BDET, Report No. 1734 b-TUN dated November 29, 1977.
2/  Tunisian citizens with technical qualifications willing to devote
themselves full-time to the new enterprise and sponsoring a project
costing less than D 500,000 (US$1,250,000 equivalent) including working
capital.



- 13 -
4.16      The SSI Pilot Line.  The Pilot Line extended by the Bank in con-
junction with the seventh Loan to BDET was designed to help remedy for the
above shortcomings, to encourage SSI investments and more participation trom
the banks in their financing, and to draw lessons trom the experience
acquired.  Out of the $7 million earmarked for this purpose, $5 million have
been lent to the Government (Loan 1505-TUN) for onlending to new SSI
projects, through the banks participating in the FOPRODI scheme; and $2 mil-
lion have been lent directly to BDET (Loan 1504-TUN) to finance the
expn"-ion of existing SSIs which are not eligible for FOPRODI assistance.
The Pilot Line's target group was projects below D 200,000 of investment
cost, including permanent working capital needs at 1976 prices (D 275,000 as
of January 1, 1980) and with a ceiling on the investment cost per job of
less than D 4,600 (D 6,300 as of January 1, 1980).  The Pilot Line became
effective on October 13, 1978, and after a slow start, it was fully com-
mitted on January 30, 1981. Twenty-six subprojects have been approved for a
total commitment of $4.95 million under the $5 million component, and eight
subprojects tor $1.4 million under the $2 million component reserved for
BDET.
4.17      Contrary to what was expected during appraisal of the Pilot Line,
commercial banks did not compete for its use. While BDET has submitted
fifteen subprojects, BNT has submitted seven subprojects, STB three, BIAT
one, and UIB, and BS none. Commercial banks have explained their lack of
interest by a combination of reasons: obligation to satisfy the development
ratio out of their ordinary resources, lack of adequate guarantees otfered
by SSI promoters, unattractive remuneration system, and cumbersome admin-
istrative procedures. The use of special resources, such as Bank funds,
does not count towards the satisfaction of the ratio. Thus, as long as a
high liquidity situation prevailed, as in 1979, the banks preferred using
their own resources rather than the Pilot Line. BDET which is not
constrained by the ratio has therefore an edge over the commercial banks.
4.18      The lack of adequate guarantees is not a problem specific to the
Pilot Line, but affects SSI financing in general. Banks are accustomed to
take multiple guarantees (mortgage on land and buildings, chattel mortgages
on equipment, and good will) which often cover 150% of more of the credits
extended. This practice is, however, more difficult with SSIs, whose
sponsors own modest, if any, personal properties. The problem is compli-
cated when land registration procedures have not been completed so that no
valid mortgages can be offered on lands and buildings. As a result, many
SSI projects have been approved by API, then rejected by the commercial
banks on a risk basis (in 1976 the rejection rate was 1 in 3).  In contrast,
BDET, being a development bank, has traditionally given higher priority to
project appraisal than to guarantee prerequisites. Although the risk of
loss under the Pilot Line on both the loan financed with Bank funds and the
loan financed with the sponsoring bank's own resources is evenly shared
between the bank and the Government, the banks considered this provision
inadequate.
4.19      Because Bank funds are administered by the participating banks on
behalf of the Government, the banks are not remunerated with a spread, but



- 14 -
receive various commissions from the Government patterned after those they
receive for the administration of the FOPRODI loans. Since the loan collec-
tion responsibility is with the banks, most of their remuneration is linked
to actual collection of principal and interest to avoid the build up of
arrears. Added together, these commissions are equivalent to a 1.5% spread
assuming smooth collection of the loans. Such a remuneration thus falls
substantially short of what the commercial banks expect to earn (page 9,
footnote). Consequently, commercial banks gave low priority to the use of
Bank funds for SSI financing. This has, however, been less of a problem for
BDET which has a developmental role to play and is guaranteed by the Govern-
ment a 3-percent spread on its borrowed resources.
4.20     The proposed project has addressed the above shortcomings with
three measures developped in agreement with the Tunisian authorities.
First, the Central Bank agreed to increase a bank's rediscount quota by one
Dinar for every Dinar it commits on the Bank loan. This increase in the
bank's access to cheaper resources will partly compensate it for the risk of
incurring the penalty of not meeting the 18% development ratio (para. 5.24).
Second, the levels of commissions have been increased substantially (para.
5.23). Third, the guarantee scheme has been improved and extended to
projects not eligible under the Pilot Line (para. 5.25).
V. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
5.01     By contributing to the further development of small scale
industries in Tunisia, the proposed project aims at the following set of
objectives:
(i) employment creation at an investment cost per job signif-
icantly lower than the national average in the industrial
sector; this will be possible because of the labor intensity
inherent in SSI projects;
(ii)  fostering the development of a new class of industrial entre-
preneurs in Tunisia, as SSIs are the training ground for
industrial managers and technicians.
In addition, the project also supports the Government's objectives of;
(iii)  encouraging the establishment of industrial firms in the less
developed regions of Tunisia, thus helping alleviate regional
imbalances;
(iv) improving the efticiency of existing SSIs through the delivery
of technical assistance to make them more competitive both in
the domestic and in the international markets with regards to
product quality, prices and delivery time; and



(v) improving intersectoral linkages, as more etticient SSIs will
be able to undertake some of the operations needed in the pro-
duction processes of larger industrial enterprises, including
manufacturing components currently being imported.
These objectives are consistent with the current policies ot the Tunisian
Government as the 1977-81 Plan had identified among the main goals of the
country's economic development efforts low-cost employment, SSI growth, and
regional development. Preliminary information show that the same objectives
will be given priority in the forthcoming Plan (1982-86) in preparation.
Project Components
5.02     The project aims at meeting these objectives through a three-
pronged approach by; (a) providing $29.35 million (para 5.30) to finance
SSI medium- and long-term credit needs through the intermediation of all
Tunisian banks willing to participate in the scheme; (b) fostering the
development of delivery systems of technical assistance to SSI promoters,
and (c) improving API's subproject appraisal capability. The ultimate
achievement of the project's objectives also requires a strengthening of the
Government's administrative structures concerned with SSI development, and
an improvement of SSI related policies and legislation. The latter are
long-term goals, towards which the authorities are gradually moving.
A. Financial Assistance
Target Group and Eligibility Criteria
5.03     The proposed line of credit will be open to all SSI subprojects
which meet a maximum investment cost criterion, a labor intensity criterion,
and are assessed to be technically, financially, and economically viable by
API (para. 5.10). The eligibility criterion of size will be aligned to the
Tunisian definition of SSIs, that is projects with an investment cost up to
D 500,000 ($1,250,000) with, however, two qualitications. First, to ensure
that permanent working capital needs get adequately financed, they will be
included in the investment cost. This practice was initiated in the Pilot
Line in an effort to change the Tunisian practice which is to have them
financed with short-term credits. Second, to avoid financing small expan-
sions of large concerns, the ceiling in the case of expansions (or modern-
ization) will be D 500,000 ($1,250,000) of net fixed assets atter project
realization.  This is a reasonable departure from the Pilot Line.  The Pilot
Line ceiling of D 100,000 ($250,000) net fixed assets before expansion has
proven to be unrealistically low and BDET has had difficulties finding
expansion projects meeting this criterion.
5.04     To avoid favoring larger SSI projects over smaller projects, at
least half of the loan amount will be reserved for projects with investment
cost of less than D 250,000. Also, to ensure that the poorer promoters who



- 16 -
are eligible for FOPRODI are not neglected by the participating banks, at
least $10 million of the line ot credit amount will be earmarked for
FOPRODI-assisted projects.
5.05     To ensure that subprojects financed under the proposed line of
credit meet the employment creation objective (para. 5.01(i)), the invest-
ment cost per job criterion introduced with the Pilot Line will be main-
tained. For the purpose of computing the investment cost per job, the cost
of land, which can vary widely between subprojects and is difficult to
monitor, will not be included, but permanent working capital needs will. In
the case of new or expansion projects, the ratio will be computed as addi-
tional investment divided by number of jobs to be created. To allow for
cases--expected to be small in number--where an SSI promoter is only replac-
ing obsolete equipment without creating significant employment, the cost per
job ratio will be computed as net fixed assets after project realization
divided by number of jobs to be created and/or maintained. The investment
cost per job created or maintained by the project should be less than D
6,900 in terms of January 1, 1981 prices, a ceiling which is the same in
real terms as under the Pilot Line. This ceiling will imply some promo-
tional effort by the participating banks, but it should not be an obstacle
to using the proposed line because in 1979 average investment cost per job
was below D 6,500 in all sectors (except in the construction materials and
glass industries and excluding some large capital-intensive projects); for
FOPRODI-assisted projects the average was D 4,400. Furthermore, as under
the Pilot Line, the investment cost per job ceiling will be indexed twice a
year to reflect inflation and a provision referring to the wholesale price
index for industrial products has been incorporated in the Loan Agreement.
5.06     The calculation of the internal financial rate of return will be
required for all subprojects, which are expected to yield a minimum rate or
10% over the duration of the proposed subloans. Furthermore, a simplified
economic rate of return will also be calculated by API for subprojects with
investment costs between D 250,000 and D 500,000 when the rate of nominal
protection applicable to the proposed products exceeds 30%. For this pur-
pose, the CIF price of the imported product will be used instead of the
domestic price, and the labor cost will be reduced by 25% to reflect the
difference between the market wages and the economic wages. It has been
agreed that a minimum rate of 10% would be expected.
Role of Participating Banks
5.07     Like the Pilot Line, the proposed loan will be made to the Govern-
ment. The proceeds of the loan will transit through a special account in
the Central Bank, and be made available to eligible SSIs through the inter-
mediation of BDET and of the commercial banks participating in the scheme as
in the Pilot Line. The banks sponsoring subprojects will be responsible for
their appraisal under conditions spelled out in para 5.09 as well as for the
disbursement and collection of the subloans and will be remunerated by com-
missions proportional to the amounts disbursed and collected on the Govern-
ment's behalf. Although the subborrowers' formal repayment obligations will



- 17 -
be directly to the Government, the banks will share with the Government the
ultimate risk of losses on the subloans.
5.08     The loan proceeds are intended to cover all direct and indirect
foreign exchange costs of eligible SSI subprojects. In the interest of
administrative simplicity, it has been agreed that, as with the Pilot Line,
subloans will amount to up to 50% of the subprojects' total investment cost
(as defined in para. 5.02). Based on the experience with the Pilot Line,
this percentage represents a fair estimate of the foreign exchange component
of SSI investments in Tunisia. Thus, the proposed loan would not finance,
on average, any local currency expenditures. To ensure their involvement,
the participating banks will finance at least 20% of each subproject's
investment cost with medium-term loans made out of their own resources.  As
a consequence, the typical financing plan of an SSI subproject woulo be:
30% equity, 20% medium- or long-term loans from the sponsoring bank; 50%
from the proposed Bank loan. These proportions may vary in particular for
subprojects eligible for FOPRODI assistance because part of the equity can
be financed with personal loans to the promoters, and/or with FOPRODI
medium/long-term loans to the projects.
Project Appraisal Procedures
5.09     Because of the insufficient experience of commercial banks with
project appraisals in general and with Bank procedures in particular, estab-
lishing direct legal agreements between the Bank and eleven different finan-
cial institutions would be too cumbersome for this line of credit to SSIs,
and it would be impractical to require all participating banks to submit
directly to the Bank applications (and the attending appraisal reports) for
the financing of subprojects under the proposed loan, considering their
unfamiliarity with Bank procedures and standards.
5.10     Under the 1978 Pilot Line, BDET agreed to serve as an intermediary
between the other participating banks and the Bank. BDET reviewed,
on behalf of the Bank, all subproject appraisal reports submitted by the
commercial banks, verified the subprojects' compliance with the agreed
eligibility criteria, and submitted approval requests to the Bank. This
procedure hampered the effectiveness of the Pilot Line for two reasons.
First, BDET's limited SSI staff (para. 3.09) did not permit quick processing
of SSI loan applications. Second, commercial banks' reaction was unfavor-
able because they viewed BDET as a competitor interfering in their own
affairs.
5.11     API's Role.  To overcome this problem, API will be responsible for
reviewing all subproject appraisal reports to ensure that subprojects are
technically, financially, and economically viable (i.e. with appropriate
technologic process, minimum financial profitability, and adequate economic
evaluation) and also meet the three quantitative eligibility criteria
(paras. 5.03-5.06). For projects not assisted by FOPRODI, this review on
behalf of the Bank will occur after a Tunisian bank has decided to finance a
project and proposes to use the Bank line of credit for this purpose. For



- 18 -
FOPRODI-assisted projects, no additional step will be involved since pro-
moters must go first to a bank and then to API for approval which, by law,
must be decided within a month. For non-FOPRODI projects, however, there
will be an additional step; this will concern about 60 projects.
5.12     Two measures will ensure that no undue delay will burden the pro-
cessing of projects. First, to help API undertake and expedite the neces-
sary review, a technical assistance component to API will be earmarked out
of the loan proceeds. It will finance the cost over two years of two
experts; one engineer to verify the technical viability of subprojects,
assess their needs for technical assistance and help train API's staff in
these respects (para. 5.29); and one economist/market expert to check the
economic viability of subprojects and also train API's staff in market
analyses. The terms of reference of these experts were agreed upon during
negotiations. Short analyses prepared by foreign consultants such as to
check whether a subsector receiving numerous applications is saturated will
also be eligible for financing under this component of the Bank loan. The
experts, expected to be hired from abroad, will be engaged for two years
each at an estimated cost of $10,000 per man-month. The estimate includes
all foreign exchange cost (salaries, travel abroad, and vehicles), but
excludes office space, supplies, and other local costs, estimated at about
$100,000 equivalent which would be financed by the Government. The total
foreign currency cost involved is estimated at $650,000.
5.13     Second, there will be a Free Limit for subprojects with investment
cost of less than D 250,000. For such subprojects, API's approval and the
sponsorship of one of the banks participating in the scheme would be suffi-
cient for the Bank's automatic authorization to finance the subproject with
the proceeds of the proposed loan. However, because some of the banks did
not participate in the Pilot Line, the first two subprojects submitted by
each participating bank will be sent by the Central Bank to the Bank for
review and approval. For subprojects with investment cost of between D
250,000 and D 500,000, the appraisal reports would be forwarded to the bank
for approval after API's review together with API's comments.
5.14     This proposed review arrangement would permit the Bank, through its
supervision of the proposed loan, to exert a direct influence over API's
project appraisal and follow-up procedures and, through API, over the
practices of all participating banks. The commercial banks would readily
accept this monitoring role of API because API is already responsible for
reviewing the feasibility reports of all industrial projects and appraising
their financial, technical, and economic viability for their eligibility to
fiscal incentives.
5.15     Supervision of Subprojects.  Sponsoring banks, API and the Central
Bank will each carry out supervision of bank-financed subprojects as they
do normally for other SSI projects, but from different points ot view. To
harmonize their different monitoring view points (essentially of risk
assessment for the banks, granting of fiscal incentives for API, and
eligibility in general and quality of rediscountable paper in particular for



- 19 -
BCT), API will prepare for BCT and the Bank an annual supervision report
covering all SSI subprojects financed under the line of credit on the basis
of data furnished by the participating banks. The format will contain an
analysis of data to show subsector and regional trends as well as stages of
development of and problems encountered by each subproject. Detailed
monitoring arrangements have been agreed with the Tunisian authorities
during negotiations. These procedures will be incorporated into the Agree-
ment between the Government, the Central Bank, API, and the participating
banks to be submitted for the Bank's review and approval prior to the Loan's
effectiveness.
5.16     Procurement.  The goods and services required under the proposed
project would be for the most part purchased by borrowing SSIs through local
commercial channels. Given the size and type of subloans, competitive
bidding is not feasible. BDET and the commercial banks, however, will
ensure that procurement is carried out in an economically etticient manner.
API, when reviewing the technical viability of subprojects, will ensure that
borrowers have normally obtained at least three price quotations from
suppliers/contractors. For subprojects above the Free-Limit, each appraisal
will include a description of the procurement procedure to be used.
Disbursement Procedures
5.17     Loan Administration Responsibility.  The responsibility to admin-
ister the Loan, maintain records, correspond with the Bank, and act as its
agent for the disbursement of the Loan's proceeds will be undertaken by the
Central Bank. This will not introduce an additional step in the processing
of SSI subprojects as the Central Bank already reviews all medium-term loan
proposals of the commercial banks for purposes of determining their eligi-
bility to rediscounting, and their suitability to be counted toward the
development ratio.
5.18     The Central Bank will periodically submit to the Bank requests to
allocate Loan funds to subprojects submitted to it by the commercial banks.
It will transmit to the Bank, the commercial banks' appraisal reports for
subprojects above the Free Limit together with API's report. All documenta-
tion concerning subprojects below the Free Limit will be kept in Tunisia by
the Central Bank at the disposition of Bank supervision missions. There
will be no preestablished allocation of Loan funds for subprojects sponsored
by the various participating banks, which will be accommodated on a first-
come-first-servedbasis. However, the Central Bank will monitor the loan
commitments to satisfy the proposed allocations by subproject size/type
(paras. 5.03 and 5.04) and will keep the participating banks intormed
accordingly. It will also ensure that, for each subproject, the financing
plan will include the 20% - minimum participation of the sponsoring bank out
of its ordinary resources (para. 5.08). The pooling of different banks to
finance the same project will be acceptable, especially for BDET which has
limited access to local currency resources and may encounter difficulties in
securing the necessary complement to the foreign exchange financing providea
under the Loan. For the technical assistance component to API, the Bank
will reimburse 100% of fully documented foreign exchange expenditures.



- 20 -
5.19     The Central Bank will submit to the Bank disbursement applications,
together with full supporting documentation, subsequent to the requests to
allocate Loan funds to specific subprojects. Disbursement applications
could also be submitted periodically and for several subprojects at a time
which the Central bank would receive from the participating banks. Bank
disbursements will be made to the Central Bank, which would transfer the
local currency counterpart of such disbursements to the account of the
participating banks. The Central Bank will also centralize the collection
of subloans repayments, and make the necessary repayments to the Bank in
accordance with the amortization schedule, debiting the Government account
for any shortfall resulting from arrears or aetaults of the subborrowers in
their repayments to the sponsoring bank.
5.20     The final amortization schedule or the Loan will be prepared by the
Central Bank after the Loan is fully committed, on the basis of the
composite amortization schedules of all subloans. The Central Bank's agree-
ment to carry out these administrative functions, to monitor the utilization
of the loan proceeds according to the agreed purposes, and to regularly
report to the Bank on the status of the Loan Account is reflected in the
legal documents. No independent audit of the Central bank is proposed
because it is adequately monitored by the Ministry of Planning and Finance.
Terms and Conditions of Subloans
5.21     In order to put all sizes of industries on the same tooting as
regards the cost of money, the interest rate payable by SSI subborrowers to
the Government (through the participating banks) on the subloans made out ot
Bank funds will be at least equal to the rate applicable to commercial
banks' rediscountable medium-term loans to industry made out ot the banks'
ordinary resources (currently 8.25% p.a.), except for subloans maturing
beyond 7 years which could carry higher rates. The Government will absorb
the difference between the cost of borrowing from the Bank and administering
the proposed Loan, and the onlending rate of 8.25%. It rightly argues that
increasing the onlending rate for the proposed project would unduly discrim-
inate against SSIs, and that commercial banks would be reluctant to make use
of the Bank's facility if this required a penalization of their clients com-
pared to the interest rates which are offered on other loans. The question
of the adequacy of the level of interest rates in general in Tunisia is
being discussed in the context of the Bank's economic work. The toreign
exchange risk would be assumed, as under the Pilot Line, by the Government,
which is in line with the prevailing practice for Bank loans to financial
intermediaries in Tunisia.
5.22     The maturity of subloans would be determinea so as to retlect the
length of the economic lite of the equipment to be purchasec and the sub-
borrower's debt service capacity. It will range between 5 years and a maxi-
mum of 13 years, with grace periods of up to 3 years. Based on the experi-
ence of the Pilot Line and of the Bank's other loans to BDET, it is expected
that the average maturity of all SSI subloans will be about 9 years, includ-
ing 2 years of grace.



- 21 -
Remuneration of Participating Banks
5.23     A bank's intermediation for the proposed line of credit will be
remunerated with: (a) a one-time commission of 3% of subloan disbursements
on subprojects committed under the Loan during the first year after its
effectiveness (for subprojects committed subsequently, the commission on
disbursements will be 2%); and (b) a one-time commission varying between 7A
and 1% of all principal and interest collected by the bank on behalf of the
Government in repayment of the subloans (with 7% being payable in the case
of full recovery of all amounts due, and 1% being payable when the bank
recovers 50% or less of the repayments due by its subborrowers in the course
of a given year). Based on smooth collection, this system of commissions
offers the banks a remuneration of about 2% per year on Bank funds (to which
the new Central Bank incentive, described in para. 5.24, must be added).
This is slightly lower than what they would earn on medium-term loans made
out of their own resources, but most banks believe this difference is
reasonably offset by the special Central Bank incentive (para 5.24). The
proposed system retains, the principle adopted under the Pilot Line that the
banks' remuneration should provide an incentive to follow-up on the sub-
borrowers' repayment. However, the levels proposed in (a) and (b) are twice
of those under the Pilot Line to ensure that the banks' remuneration for
administering the proposed Loan will not be significantly less than that
they would earn on medium-term loans rediscounted at the Central Bank. A
mission visited all the banks and BDET in November 1980 and was satisfied
that the participating banks found this new set of commissions to be a
substantial improvement that would help use the proposed Loan.
Central Bank Incentive
5.24     One factor which discouraged commercial banks from using the Pilot
Line was that subloans made out of its proceeds did not count toward meeting
the development ratio (para 4.17). To address this difficulty, the Central
Bank agreed to allow subloans made out of the Loan proceeds to entail an
increase of the sponsoring bank's ordinary rediscount quota 1/ by an amount
equal to the subloan. Commercial banks have reacted favorably to this new
measure that would translate also into an additional remuneration of between
0.75% and 1.75% per year due to the differential between the interest rate
prevailing on the monetary market (usually between 6% and 7%) and the redis-
count rate (5.25%). This agreement is reflected in the legal documents.
Risk-sharing Scheme
5.25     To ensure that the banks will follow-up on the repayment of sub-
loans they will be required to share part of the final risk in case of
1/ Each commercial bank is given a quota of commercial paper which it can
take to the Central Bank for rediscounting.



- 22 -
irrecoverable arrears. To encourage SSI lending, the Government has agreed
to increase the share of risk it is prepared to bear from 50% (under the
Pilot Line) to two-thirds for FOPRODI projects. For non-FOPRODI SSI proj-
ects (which were not financed under the Pilot Line), the Government agreed
to guarantee 50% of the final risk. This relatively lower percentage is
justified on the grounds that non-FOPRODI promoters can provide the
guarantees required by commercial banks more easily than FOPRODI promoters
who, by definition, have limited financial means. As under the Pilot Line,
the sharing of risk will apply to the Bank loan as well as to the loans
made by the banks out of their resources. The guarantee will only be acti-
vated after a loss is ascertained and normal legal procedures to collect
the arrears have been exhausted. Until then the bank sponsoring a sub-
borrower in default will be obligated to channel back to the Government
only the amounts actually collected. No formal funding of the guarantee
scheme is required as the Treasury will stand by to finance all eligible
claims.
B. Technical Assistance
5.26     An effective system to deliver technical assistance to SSIs,
whether or not they are recipients of Bank financial assistance, is essen-
tial to the success of the project. As discussed in Chapter III, there are
two major agencies providing technical assistance to SSIs, namely API and
CNEI. Although progress has been made to help small entrepreneurs improve
their project design, select equipment, obtain needed permits, and gain
access to financial assistance, the level and scope of available technical
assistance services are still much below the needs of SSIs. Both API and
CNEI are currently preparing to consolidate their past achievements, and
strengthen their respective organization and staffing to cope with future
increase in the SSI demand for their services. BDET also plans to
strengthen its small SSI division with the hiring of one new staff.
5.27     API's SSI work program for the next two years has been reviewed by
the Bank and found satisfactory. It includes the creation ot a new local
office in Kairouan and the hiring of at leat four new SSI technical
agents. More importantly, API foresees an increase in the productivity of
its staff, as the rapid build-up of their experience so far should permit
them to provide technical, administrative and management assistance to
about 150-200 enterprises per year from 1981 onward. In parallel to these
custom-designed consultations, API plans to continue the collective exten-
sion activities it has already started and will intensify them whenever
appropriate and desirable in order to reach a wider coverage of SSIs (para.
3.12). API also recognizes the need to improve its capability to help SSIs
in the technical design, the production standards and the marketing of
their products. It proposes to tackle this issue partly through closer



- 23 -
cooperation with specialized institutions, 1/ and partly through increased
recourse to the specialized services of foreign experts on an ad hoc basis
to be financed with bilateral aid or UNDP funds (para. 5.28). The Govern-
ment agreed to provide the necessary support to API's technical assistance
program for 1981 and 1982. Agreements have also been reached on the
principle of periodic joint reviews by the Government and the Bank of the
functioning and progress of API's SSI technical assistance activities.
These are reflected in the legal documents.
5.28     CNEI is aware that its effectiveness in providing technical assis-
tance to SSIs will depend on an improvement of its staff's problem-solving
skills at the enterprise level. To this end, CNEI is now preparing an
action program to benefit from a new UNDP grant of $650,000. This grant is
to finance the needed foreign expertise and train the Tunisian staft in the
delivery of technical assistance services to SSIs. Ongoing discussions
between CNEI, the Government and UNDP on the orientation and scope of the
proposed project are expected to lead to a program which should spell out:
(a) the orientation of CNEI as an agency providing technical assistance to
SSIs; and (b) the priorities and approach of CNEI's SSI assistance activi-
ties, and a number of specific actions to be undertaken with UNDP's assis-
tance. The Bank has discussed at length the above aspects with UNDP and
CNEI, both of whom agreed on the need or close coordination ot their
program with the objectives of the proposed project, and welcomed the
opportunity for pursuing this dialogue further in the context of the pro-
posed project. The Government has agreed to send to the Bank for its
review and comments the UNDP project document for assistance to CNEI and
other technical assistance institutions. The on-the-job training by
foreign experts as proposed by CNEI would be beneficial to its staft. In
addition, under the proposed program, ad hoc foreign consultancies would
also be available to API for its activities of technical assistance during
the implementation phase of SSI projects. In the meantime, CNEI proposes
to make a start by providing follow-up assistance to those SSIs which have
received, or will receive, help from CNEI in the preparation of their
project feasibility reports. Special focus would be given to engineering
aspects of the SSI projects (e.g. selection of appropriate equipment,
production problems). To supplement its own management assistance to SSIs,
CNEI expects to rely also on the services of specialized private Tunisian
consulting firms. Close coordination and cooperation with API will be
continued, especially at the regional working level.
5.29     The action programs proposed by API and CNEI are realistic and
rational. They respond to the immediate needs of SSIs and are consistent
1/  Such as the Textile Center, the Leather and Footwear Center, the
Technical Center for the Construction Industry, the National Center for
Welding, the National Employment Office (which runs vocational
schools), and local universities and Business Administration Institutes
(with some of whom formal cooperation agreements are being prepared).



- 24 -
with the implementation capability of each agency. In the course of the
next two years, it is reasonable to expect from both API and CNEI a
combined output of between 250 and 350 substantive SSI assistance actions
per year, not counting the number of SSIs reached through collective
extension activities.
5.30     To ensure that an SSI subproject in need of technical assistance
and to be financed under the proposed Loan, will indeed receive it, API has
agreed to assess such need during its review of the project's eligibility
for Bank financing (para. 5.11). API will then inform the sponsoring bank
and the SSI promoter of its assessment, and, atter taking into account the
entrepreneur's own preference and circumstances, refer him either to API's
own SSI Technical Assistance Department, or to another institution for
follow up. It is, however, not proposed to make the provision of technical
assistance a formal condition for SSIs to obtain Bank financing because
such arrangement has met with considerable reticence from the SSI promoters
during the implementation of the Pilot Line.
SSI Dialogue between the Government and the Bank
5.31     As discussed in the previous sections of this report, several
policies and measures have been introduced by the Government with the
Bank's assistance in the context of project preparation and sector work.
Because of the experimental nature of the Government's efforts to promote
SSIs in general, and of the proposed project in particular, agreement has
been reached on the principle of periodic consultations between the Govern-
ment and the Bank to review, in the light of gained experience, existing
SSI measures and possible new developments in SSI policies, such as
redefinition of the development ratio, formulation of a new credit
guarantee scheme, removal of biases in the incentive system for SSI invest-
ments, further strengthening of financial and technical arrangements.
These consultations are foreseen to take place once a year, with the first
meeting scheduled six months after Loan effectiveness. This dialogue will
be also pursued in conjunction with the regular supervision of the proposed
project, as well as our future sector work, more specifically a review of
the SSI subsector in Tunisia currently being scheduled for FY82-83.
Proposed Loan Amount
5.32     On the basis of the quantified eligibility criteria alone (size
and investment cost per job), about 1,000 projects would have been poten-
tially eligible in 1979 1/ under the proposed Loan against about 200 under
the Pilot Line for the same year (para. 4.16). Assuming a growth rate in
number of 9% per year (as observed in 1979), this would represent about
1/ 1,433 projects with investment cost under D 500,000 were approved by
API in 1979, of which 1,000 meet the cost per job ceiling.



- 25 -
1,200 potentially eligible projects in 1981 and 1,300 in 1982. The pro-
posed Loan aims at financing part ot the expected increase in the number ot
projects compared to 1980, leaving the rest, as it is the case now, to
rediscountable medium-term financing by commercial banks and long-term
financing by BDET. As a result, while the banks will provide medium-term
credits to meet the development ratio, the Bank loan will supplement this
financing - not substitute for it. It is on this basis that banks have
made projections for the utilization of the proposed Loan. They ranged
between $36 million and $44 million assuming a two-year commitment period.
After allowing for a realistic attrition rate given the limited SSI lending
experience of some banks, the loan amount has been set at $30 million,
including the technical assistance component to API (para. 5.12).
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
The Benefits
6.01     The proposed Loan is expected to finance the estimated foreign
exchange component of about 130 subprojects, of which about 90 with invest-
ment cost less than D 250,000, assuming an average Bank subloan of about
$160,000 per project, 1/ and about 40 with an investment cost ranging
between D 250,000 and D 500,000, assuming an average Bank subloan of about
$350,000 per project. The number of projects to be financed could be
greater if the share of Bank funds in the subprojects' financing plan is
less than 50%. It is estimated that at least 70 subprojects (54% of the
total number) representing $13 million (44% of the line ot credit amount)
would fall under the free limit (para. 5.13). The average investment cost
per job of all subprojects is estimated at about D 4,488 at 1980 prices; as
a result, about 5,200 jobs are expected to be created by the projects to be
directly financed under the proposed Loan.
6.02     The financial assistance scheme is expected to encourage all
Tunisian banks to become involved in SSI financing. Through supervision,
the Bank would exert its influence on all Tunisian commercial banks not
only on the quality of subproject selection, preparation and appraisal, but
also on subproject supervision and follow-up. An additional advantage
expected to derive from the project is that, once the financial assistance
scheme is functioning, it would be possible for the Government to replenish
the project account not only with subsequent Bank loans, but also with
alternative sources of financing, such as funds provided by bilateral aid
agencies or other international lenders which might be interested in
participating in the financing of SSI development in Tunisia, but cannot
1/ Under the Pilot Line, the average Bank subloan has been $158,000 so far.



- 26 -
do so effectively at present due to the lack of suitable institutional
channels. Only BDET has received loans earmarked for SSIs so far. 1/
6.03     Simultaneously with the provision of financial assistance, the
project will continue to stimulate the improvement of API's and CNEI's
technical assistance delivery systems, the establishment of which was ini-
tiated in the context of the Pilot Line. This in turn should help improve
the productivity not only of the subprojects to be financed under the Loan,
but also of existing SSIs in need of modernizing their methods of operation.
6.04     Last but not least, the project will allow us to pursue the
dialogue with the authorities with respect to policies affecting SSIs. The
Bank's influence has been a determining factor in the authorities' decision
to reduce the incentive laws' bias against SSI, to amend Central Bank regu-
lations so as to encourage lending to SSI, and to establish a new Depart-
ment for SSIs in the Ministry of National Economy. The continuation of
this dialogue, as noted in para. 5.31, is of particular importance now that
a number of policies are being reviewed in the context of the preparation
of the new 5-year Development Plan, especially as regards credit policies
and incentive laws (re-definition of the development ratio, and removal ot
biases in investment incentives to SSIs).
The Risks
6.05     The risks implied by the proposed project are two-fold:  the co-
operation of commercial banks may prove less forthcoming than necessary;
and the subprojects may be inadequately prepared. The tirst risk derives
from the fact that the package of incentives and remunerations devised
under the proposed program has not been tested yet. Although all com-
mercial banks expressed considerable interest in the proposed project, in
practice some of them may not extend their whole-hearted cooperation
because of their traditional reluctance in financing SSIs and because of
the higher degree of supervision they would be subjected to under the
Loan. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations on the principle
of reviewing the adequacy of the banks' remuneration in the context of the
SSI dialogue, the first meeting taking place six months after effectiveness
(para. 5.31). The cooperation of at least two major financial institutions
is reasonably assured: that of BDET, which has proved in the context of
the Pilot Line its willingness to devote serious efforts to SSI financing;
and that of STB, the largest commercial bank in Tunisia (wholly Government
11 Yearly loans from the French Government and banking system or about $9
million (tied to purchase of equipment in France) and open to projects
with investment cost up to D 4 million; and a new loan from KFW for
about $15 million to be effective in 1981 for SSIs (up to D 500,000)
and decentralization projects (up to D 1 million), but with an invest-
ment cost per job up to D 12,000.



- 27 -
owned), which has expressed keen interest in SSI development. These two
institutions alone would be able to ensure commitment ot up to 70X of the
proposed Loan for the financing of SSI projects meeting the agreed
criteria. If, however, the proposed Bank loan was used by BDET and STB
only, the project would fail to attain one of its expected benefits, namely
that of involving a large part of the banking system in SSI financing, and
of creating the structures needed to channel to SSIs alternative sources of
financing.
6.06     The second risk--poor subproject preparation--is the consequence
of the objective of relying, for the financing of SSIs, on the cooperation
of as many commercial banks as possible, including those with limited
experience in project appraisal. It is a risk worth taking in view of the
long-term benefits of introducing the entire banking system to term financ-
ing of SSI project.  In addition, this risk should be limited for three
reasons. First, the technical assistance to be provided by API and other
institutions to the recipients of the Loan proceeds should help ensure
adequate project preparation. Second, API's review of all subprojects (and
the Bank's review of those above the free limit) should effectively screen
out inadequately prepared projects. Third, the Bank's own supervision of
the Project is expected to induce the participating banks to upgrade their
project appraisal and follow-up procedures.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     The proposed Loan of $30 million for the financing of SbI sub-
projects through the intermediation of Tunisian commercial banks and of
BDET, and of associated technical assistance, is suitable tor bank financ-
ing provided the following agreements and understanding are reached during
negotiations.
A. General Features of the Loan
7.02     The Loan would be made to the Government of Tunisia, and aamin-
istered by the Central Bank (para 5.06). Its line of credit component
($29.35 million) will be available to finance, on a first-come-first-served
basis, any SSI subproject (i) meeting agreed eligibility criteria (paras
5.03 and 5.05), which will be checked by API (para 5.11), and (ii) spon-
sored by BDET and any Tunisian commercial bank willing to enter into an
agreement with the Government for this purpose (para 5.06). The line of
credit will finance the estimated foreign exchange component of eligible
SSI subprojects (para 5.08). The final date for submission of subprojects
to the Bank will be June 30, 1984, and the closing date will be
December 31, 1986. Its technical assistance component ($650,000) would be
available to finance the foreign cost of two experts and small studies
(para 5.12). The Loan will be repaid by the Government according to a



- 28 -
composite amortization schedule not to exceed 15 ana a halt years, inclua-
ing 3 years of grace, and reflecting the amortization schedules of the
subloans (para 5.20).
7.03     During loan negotiations, assurances and understanding were
obtained on the following points:
(i)  Government's commitment to provide necessary support to API's
technical assistance program for 1982 (para 5.27);
(ii)  Government's agreement to the principle of periodic reviews
of the functioning and progress in API's SSI technical assis-
tance program (para 5.27);
(iii) UNDP's project document for assistance to CNEI and other
technical assistance institutions to be sent to the Bank
(para 5.28);
(iv)  Definition of subproject eligibility criteria (paras 5.03 and
5.05);
(v)  Allocation of the Loan amount (paras 5.04 and 5.12);
(vi)  Subloans to cover up to 50% of a subproject's total invest-
ment cost (para 5.08);
(vii) API to review all SSI subprojects to be financed under the
Bank loan (para 5.11);
(viii) Free limit for subloans to subprojects with total investment
costs of less than D. 250,000, but review by the Bank of the
first two subprojects submitted by each participating bank
(para 5.13);
(ix)  The Central Bank to administer the Loan (paras 5.17 to 5.20);
(x)  Subloans to carry at least the same interest rate as redis-
countable medium-term loans of commercial banks for indus-
trial projects; maturity to vary between 5 and 13 years, with
up to 3 years grace (paras 5.13 and 5.22);
(xi)  Participating banks to receive from the Government commis-
sions on disbursement and collection of subloans (paras 5.23);
(xii) The Central Bank to increase the sponsoring bank's rediscount
quota by an amount equal to the subloan made out of the Loan
proceeds (para 5.24);
(xiii) The Government to cover part of the final risk of credit loss
on loans made to subprojects (para 5.25); and



- 29 -
(xiv) The principle of periodic consultations between the Govern-
ment and the Bank to review all existing SSI measures ane
their possible new developments in SSI policies (para 5.31).
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.04     During loan negotiations, it was agreed that effectiveness of the
loan would be contingent upon the following:
(i) signature, by at least three financial intermediaries (including
BDET) of a financing agreement ("convention") to be prepared by
the Government, detailing all the operational arrangements
(appraisal, approval, procurement, disbursement, and supervision
procedures) between the Government (Treasury), the Central bank,
API, and the participating banks; and
(ii) opening by the Borrower of a project account at the Central bank.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A-1      Sector and Subsector Data (Tables)
A-2      Tunisia:  Review of the Electrical and Mechanical Industries
(No. 2666-TUN, June 4, 1980)
A-3      Tunisia:  Industrial Sector Memorandum (No. 2751-TUN, March
7, 1980)
A-4      Tunisia:  Appraisal of an Industrial Finance Project, Consisting
of a Loan to BDET and a Loan to the Government for Small Scale
Enterprises (No. 1734b-TUN, November 29, 1977)
A-5      API Tunisia, Rapport Annuel 1979
A-6      BDET, Rapport Annuel 1979
A-7      STB, Rapport Annuel 1979
A-8      BNT, Rapport Annuel 1979
A-9      UIB, Rapport Annuel 1979
A-10     BIAT, Rapport Annuel 1979
EMENA/IDF
March 1981



