Document of                 FILE COpy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2998-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 26, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                         Tunisian Dinar (D)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate
used in the Staff Appraisal Report, which approximates the current rate is:
US$ 1      =        D 0.4
D   1      =        US$ 2.5
D 1 million=        US$ 2.5 million
FISCAL YEAR      CALENDAR YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFI                   Agency for Industrial Land (Agence Fonciere Industrielle)
API                    Investment Promotion Agency (Agence de Promotion des
Investissements)
BCT                    Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque Centrale de Tunisie)
BDET                  Economic Development Bank of Tunisia (Banque de
D6veloppement Economique de Tunisie)
CNEI                  National Center for Industrial Studies (Centre National
des Etudes Industrielles)
FOPRODI                Fund for the Promotion and Decentralization of Industries
(Fonds de Promotion et de Decentralisation Industrielle)
SSI(s)                Small Scale Industry (Industries)
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
UTICA                  Tunisian Industry, Commerce and Handicraft Association
(Union Tunisienne de l'Industrie, du Commerce et de
l'Artisanat)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiaries;      Participating commercial banks and Economic Development
Bank of Tunisia (BDET)
Loan Amount:        US$30.0 million equivalent
Terms:              About 15 1/2 years including 3 years of grace; repayment
based on a composite amortization schedule of sub-
projects; interest rate at 9.6 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:   Interest rate at least equal to rate payable by commer-
cial banks on medium-term rediscountable industrial
loans (at present 8.25 percent per annum); amortization
depends on individual subprojects, and may vary between
5 and 13 years, with up to 3 years of grace.
Project
Description:        The project will support the Government's comprehensive
assistance program for small scale industries (SSIs), to
help them reach their potential in generating employ-
ment, improving intersectoral linkages, developing
industrial managers and technicians, and alleviating
regional imbalances. It will provide financial assis-
tance to about 130 SSIs, creating about 5,200 jobs at an
average cost of about $11,000 at 1980-prices. Bank
funds amounting to $29.35 million, will be channeled to
sub-borrowers through commercial banks and the Economic
Development Bank of Tunisia (BDET). All subprojects
will be reviewed by the Investment Promotion Agency
(API), and a $650,000 technical assistance component is
included in the loan to help API perform this task. The
main project risks are inadequate subproject prepara-
tion, implementation and management, and the commercial
banks' reluctance to lend to SSIs. Provisions made in
the project are expected to minimize these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Cost;                             Local   Foreign   Total
-------$ million-------
Lending Component                               29.35    29.35    58.70
Technical Assistance Component to API            0.10     0.65      0.75
Technical Assistance to SSI subprojects          0.20     0.90      1.10
Total                                           29.65    30.90    60.55
Financing Plan:                                     Local   Foreign   Total
-------$ million-------
Bank Loan                                         -      30.00    30.00
Government                                       0.30      -        0.30
Local Financial Institutions                    11.74      -       11.74
Beneficiaries                                   17.61      -       17.61
UNDP and Bilateral Assistance                     -       0.90      0.90
Total                                           29.65    30.90    60.55
Bank Loan Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year             1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
-------------------$ million----------------
Annual                        5.5     6.5      7.0     6.0      4.0     1.0
Cumulative                   5.5    12.0    19.0    25.0    29.0    30.0
Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 3266-TUN dated March 13, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$30 million to the Republic of Tunisia, to
help finance the foreign exchange cost of a Small Scale Industry Develop-
ment Project. The loan would have a term of about 15-1/2 years, including
3 years of grace, with an interest rate of 9.6 percent per annum. US$29.35
million of the loan would be onlent to project beneficiaries through par-
ticipating banks, with maturities of up to 13 years, including up to 3
years of grace, at least at the interest rate for rediscountable medium-
term loans to industry prevailing in Tunisia, presently 8.25 percent.
Participating banks would receive a commission from the Government
equivalent to about 2 percent per annum of the amounts onlent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.       The last economic report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects
of Tunisia" (No. 2201-TUN) was issued on November 16, 1978. An economic
mission visited Tunisia in June 1980 and this part reflects its findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I; present economic projections
are provisional and strongly depend on the outcome of an ongoing study on
the future of domestic oil production and energy demand and on the economic
policies that will be adopted for the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86).
3.       Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with natural resources.  Much of
it is arid or semi-arid. The limited areas where dry-land agriculture is
possible are subject to severe year-to-year fluctuations in rainfall. The
adverse effects of climatic fluctuations are alleviated by expanding irri-
gation. Tunisia's most important raw materials are phosphates, petroleum,
and natural gas; however, the known exploitable reserves of oil and gas are
small, and phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality. There is
considerable tourism potential, and efforts have been made to develop it
rapidly over the last decade.
4.        Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive
effort towards development of its human resources, paying special attention
to education and training as basic prerequisites for modernization. As a
result, the adult literacy rate has increased from under 15 percent at the
time of independence to 55 percent by 1980; the health and nutrition status
of the population improved, average calorie supply per capita increased
from about 80 to 112 percent of requirements, and life expectancy at birth
increased from about 48 years in 1960 to 57 years in 1978.
1/ Part I is substantially unchanged from that in President's Report
No. P-2981-TUN of March 4, 1981 for a Fourth Education Project.



-2-
5.       Tunisia's economy depends on rural activities to provide employ-
ment, but on petroleum and phosphate exports to provide foreign exchange
earnings. Manufacturing is rapidly becoming important in both respects.
The relative sectoral composition of GDP shows a diversified economic
structure. From the employment point of view (the country's most pressing
social problem), Tunisia remains an agricultural economy, with the rural
sector providing work for nearly one out of every three Tunisians in the
labor force. The direct employment effects of petroleum extraction,
phosphate mining and tourism are small, although these sectors make a vital
contribution to GDP, public revenues, savings and exports. From the export
point of view, Tunisia is largely a petroleum and mining economy with those
two activities providing 37 percent of the country's foreign exchange
earnings; all manufacturing activities and tourism together provide another
43 percent.
The Main Economic Sectors in 1979
(in percent)
GDP /1    Employment   Exports /2
Agriculture                                    16.2           35.0          6.8
Energy/Mining                                  12.1            1.8         37.1
Manufacturing                                  12.1           21.8         22.5
Tourism                                        4.8             1.5         20.2
Construction and Services                     41.2            25.4         13.4
Government Administration                     13.6            14.5         _
100.0          100.0        100.0
/1 At factor cost.
/2 Goods and non-factor services.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Tunisia's economy has grown relatively fast in recent years.  GDP,
in constant prices, increased at an average annual rate of 6.5 percent from
1976 to 1979. Although this is somewhat less than the 8.6 percent growth
rate for the 1969-76 period, Tunisia's GDP growth of 8.0 percent for the
entire decade 1969-79 places it among the top 10 middle-income countries;
it also marks a substantial improvement over the relatively low growth
(4 percent per annum) experienced during the 1960s. GNP per capita reached
$1,120 in 1979, which, in constant prices, is about 73 percent above the
1969 level.
7.       The impressive growth achieved from 1969 to 1976 was largely
attributable to changes in economic management introduced at the beginning
of this period. In agriculture, stronger Government efforts to stimulate
production, reoriented towards promotion of individual farming, together
with favorable weather conditions, resulted in a near doubling of produc-
tion, a remarkable turn-around from the slow, but continuous, decline in



-3 -
agricultural production during most of the 1960s. In manufacturing, the
degree of Government control declined, and more incentives were given to
private initiative. An increasingly export-oriented investment strategy,
coupled with a dynamic marketing effort, led to a rapid growth of prodluc-
tion, particularly in textiles, while tourism was promoted with marked
successo
8.       During the second half of the 1970s, the situation was quite
different, not so much in terms of overall growth (which slowed down
slightly), as in terms of the underlying growth factors: output in agri-
culture has virtually stagnated since 1976, partially as a result of bad
weather conditions; textile production declined in 1978, and tourism
development slowed down because of the 1977 slump in the European tourist
market. By contrast, petroleum production and, to a lesser extent, phos-
phate processing expanded making these two sectors the main engine of
economic growth over the 1976-79 period. After an exceptional low level in
1976, oil production increased by over 12 percent per annum up to 1979;
more important, however, were the large protits reaped by Tunisia from the
successive increases in crude oil prices, starting in 1974. These large
additional foreign exchange earnings enabled the country to increase its
investments, from an average of slightly over 20 percent of GDP before
1975, to nearly 29 percent thereafter, and expand its public services at a
rapid rate. These two factors, in turn, triggered a rapid growth in the
construction industry and in local manufacturing of construction materials.
9.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, particu-
larly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favor-
able. Even in constant prices, exports grew marginally faster than
imports. In addition, the terms of trade improved significantly, due to
higher export prices for oil and low import prices for grain. As a result,
the resource gap remained relatively small, and domestic savings financed
on average over 72 percent of the greatly increased investment effort. The
current account deficit of $500-600 million (1978/1979) was easily
financed: grant aid and private investments accounted for about 30 per-
cent, while the remainder was covered by long-term foreign borrowing. The
increase in lending to Tunisia from public sources allowed it to reduce
borrowing from financial markets and suppliers' credits. During the 1970s,
therefore, total foreign debt disbursed increased little relative to GDP
and the debt service ratio improved (para. 18). Net foreign exchange
reserves increased in seven out of the last ten years, but still repre-
sented only 1.5 months of imports at the end of 1979.
10.      Since independence, the public sector has played a major role in
mobilizing and redistributing domestic resources. General budgetary
revenues were equivalent to one-third of GDP in 1978 and 1979, one of the
highest shares among middle-income countries. Over one-fourth of these
revenues were saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of
total government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance
situation has led to a fast increase in subsidy payments to private con-
sumers and public enterprises. Such transfers have nearly doubled over the
last four years, accounting for 16 percent of total current budget outlays,



-4-
or 4 percent of GDP. This level of subsidies, to cover the increasing
operational deficits of public enterprises may not be sustainable in the
long term; similarly, consumer subsidies for basic necessities will have to
concentrate more systematically on the needy.
Medium-term Prospects
11.      The objectives of the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) have a good
chance of being achieved, except for the employment creation targets. The
actual GDP growth will be just short of the planned rate of 7.3 percent per
annum, while the investment objective of $9.8 billion in current prices, or
30 percent of GDP, will be fully met. Completion of some large projects in
the public sector (steel, cement, expansion of the oil refinery) will, how-
ever, be delayed. Private sector investments, both foreign and national,
are likely to exceed Plan targets. The Government welcomes this shift from
large capital-intensive projects in the public sector to medium-scale
industries as a means to speed up employment creation. Open and hidden
unemployment is currently considered the most serious problem for the
Tunisian economy. During 1977-79, the domestic non-agricultural economy
could only absorb three-fourths of new job seekers. In view of this, and
of the fact that migration to Libya and Europe is decreasing rapidly, the
overall unemployment and underemployment rate, estimated at between 20 and
25 percent, has not declined markedly.
12.      The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) is presently in preparation.
Employment generation, food self-sufficiency, and more rapid growth in the
three most backward regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and
South) are likely to be among its major objectives. The outlook for over-
all economic growth during this period and beyond, will depend upon future
developments in the oil and natural gas sector. Based on known reserves,
it is generally expected that oil production will decline after 1981 from
its present level of 5-6 million tons per annum and will come to an end
during the late 1990s. The possible exploitation of some of the smaller
fields that may soon become profitable will not delay the declining produc-
tion trend by more than a few years. Some off-shore fields cannot be
exploited for the time being, because they are located in areas disputed by
Libya. Gas production in presently exploited fields (385,000 tons of oil
equivalent--toe--in 1979) is expected to cease around 1990. Royalties from
the Algerian/Italian pipeline will provide an additional supply of natural
gas, rising from 200,000 toe in 1982 to 800,000 toe in 1986 and there-
after. Negotiations with Algeria on the purchase of additional quantities
of natural gas are proceeding, but have so far been inconclusive. The
Government is therefore considering the exploitation of the off-shore gas
field of Miskar, despite its high production cost. The optimal use of all
these resources is being studied with foreign assistance within a compre-
hensive long-term policy framework.
13.      While detailed macroeconomic growth projections beyond the mid-
1980s will have to wait for the outcome of these studies, there can
be little doubt that--barring large new oil discoveries--Tunisia will face



5
the consequences of a decline in oil and gas production over the next 10-15
years, and become a net importer of hydrocarbons, perhaps as early as 1987-
88. The Government is fully aware of these developments. It agrees that
the situation will require significant policy changes in the near future
and is analyzing the areas where these changes will have to take place in
the context of the preparation of the Sixth Plan. Unlike many other
developing countries, however, Tunisia has enough lead time to introduce
these changes gradually until the mid-1980s. This will reduce the
associated economic and social strains, and should avoid major balance-of-
payments problems. Assuming that the necessary measures will be imple-
mented, it is reasonable to expect an overall GDP growth of about 7 percent
in constant prices, until at least 1985.
14.      The expected decline in oil production and exports is likely to
have an impact on external debt and domestic savings, particularly public
savings. Changes in demand management will thus be required to avoid
balance-of-payments difficulties and maintain satisfactory economic
growth. In the public sector, the necessary restraint in current budget
expenditures will require a reassessment of present price and subsidy
policies, in particular for energy, basic foodstuffs, and transportation.
Considering the complexity and the pervasiveness of the present subsidy
system, and the impact its dismantling will have on domestic inflation and
on the standard of living (particularly on the 17 percent of the population
still living in absolute poverty), the introduction of changes into the
system will be a difficult endeavor, but ought to be initiated without
delay. As part of this effort, the subsidies to public enterprises, to a
large extent stemming from managerial inefficiencies, ought to be phased
out. In addition, interest rate and fiscal policies will have to be used
more effectively to restrain final consumption, particularly of imports,
and to stimulate savings. Finally, wage and salary policies will have to
keep labor cost increases in line with productivity increases, particularly
since Tunisia will have to stimulate tourism and make a greater effort to
improve its competitiveness in international markets by promoting exports
of manufactured goods other than textiles.
15.      A successful and timely implementation of these policy changes,
however, cannot prevent a decline in the domestic savings rate. This, in
turn, will require a corresponding adjustment in the investment rate below
the present average of 29 percent of GDP, so as to maintain a manageable
spread between domestic savings and investments. More resources will have
to be allocated to labor-intensive projects, particularly to small and
medium manufacturing enterprises, in order to ease the unemployment problem
and reduce income disparities, between rural and urban areas as well as
within each of these areas. While investments in education, health, hous-
ing and water supply will have to continue, they should be focussed more on
the neediest income groups, provided at lower costs (health, shelter), and
made more relevant to the needs of the economy (education, training).
Social Issues
16.      In general, Tunisia's social performance has been impressive.
Since independence, the country has come a long way towards meeting the



- 6 -
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 per-
cent of GDP is now devoted to social programs, although too many of the
benefits still accrue to the upper income groups. Education expenditures
rank first among budgetary outlays. The comprehensive education system
provides free access for all students, and the gross enrollment rate has
reached 100 percent for primary education and 22 percent for secondary
education. The performance of the system, however, could be improved by;
(a) expanding vocational training programs and improving their relevance
and coordination with labor demand; and (b) catering more to poorer and
rural groups. Public health services are second among social expenditures,
and their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the
vital statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in
the availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel, and the
medical referral system is not properly functioning. As a result, the
rural poor are often excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies,
infant mortality is still high. So far health services have concentrated
largely on curative medicine. To achieve better and faster results, the
Government is planning to allocate more resources to preventive medicine
and nutrition education. Finally, Tunisia faces a difficult housing
situation. Subsidized housing, the cornerstore of public intervention, has
not reached the most needy groups. The housing demand from households
above the poverty limit should be satisfied by the private sector; to this
end, adequate incentives need to be provided.
17.      Absolute poverty still affects one out of every six people in
Tunisia. Over the last fifteen years, the overall number of absolute poor
remained stable but declined in rural areas as a result of internal and
external migration. Most of the poor are unskilled seasonal workers in
agriculture and industry, small farmers, and artisans. Income differen-
tials between the coast (East) and the interior (West) widened, in part
because the system of price controls and subsidies as well as the tax
system and budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact. The
Government is using the preparation of the forthcoming Plan as an occasion
to focus on basic needs and poverty alleviation, with a view to abolishing
absolute poverty before the end of this century. Maintaining a low demo-
graphic growth rate will be an important factor for a significant allevia-
tion of poverty.
External Assistance and Foreign Debt
18.      As mentioned above (para. 9), foreign borrowing remained limited
during the second half of the 1970s, and a growing share of foreign funds
was provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. During the
1976-79 period, foreign loan commitments averaged about $670 million per
annum, two-thirds of which in the form of official assistance (ODA--$450
million or some $75 per capita). About 70 percent of ODA commitments came
from bilateral sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany and
Canada, but also some oil-surplus countries, whose contributions averaged
about one-fourth of total bilateral ODA. About 17 percent of total ODA was
committed by the Bank Group, and some 13 percent by other multilateral



- 7 -
sources. Borrowing terms were favorable, averaging 6.1 percent interest
and 18 years maturity, including a grace period of 4.8 years. At the end
of 1979, debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at about $2.9 bil-
lion, or one-third of GDP; debt service was 10.7 percent of exports of
goods and services, as compared with 17.8 percent in 1970.
19.      Direct foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s,
but have gained momentum during the last five years in line with increased
activities in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign
investors in manufacturing. Such investments have increased from less than
$20 million in 1969 to more than $100 million in 1976 and $165 million in
1979.
20.      The balance-of-payments outlook remains favorable, at least up to
the mid-1980s. Thereafter, much will depend on the policy measures
initiated during the next few years (para. 14). The main risk would be for
Tunisia to attempt to continue its policy of high investments and high
current social outlays in spite of the expected decline in foreign exchange
earnings and domestic savings. Pressures to that effect will certainly
exist. The new Government formed in the spring of 1980, however, is aware
of this danger and recognizes the need for change. Considering its long
record of prudent and skillful balance-of-payments and external debt
management, there is every reason to assume that Tunisia will formulate and
implement the necessary reforms and, thus, will continue to remain credit-
worthy for future Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
21.      Since 1962, Tunisia has received forty Bank loans and eleven IDA
credits amounting respectively to $739.6 million and $70.1 million (net of
cancellations) of which fifteen loans and nine credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of December 31, 1980, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Project implementation is generally satis-
factory. In a number of sectors, important institutional improvements have
been achieved, and autonomous agencies have been created or strengthened to
ensure the efficient management of the related sectors or subsectors.
22.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting
Government efforts to: (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more
balanced growth and distribution of income among regions and income groups
with particular emphasis on rural areas; (c) promote export-oriented
policies and investments; and (d) provide selective support for the
development of basic infrastructure and for institution building in key
public services. An important feature of this strategy is to support the
Tunisian authorities in the timely and well-coordinated preparation ot
projects through missions and advice by Bank staff, the assistance of the
IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program and the use of the Bank's Project Preparation
Facility. The Bank is also supporting the Government in its efforts to



-8-
increase the mobilization ot domestic resources, and to secure cotinancing
for the projects it assists. The latter is particularly important in view
ot the extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
23.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending
tor urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, educa-
tion, family planning, urban low-cost housing, and the Tunis planning ana
public transport project has accounted for 25 percent of Bank/IDA commit-
ments in Tunisia since 1971. Lending tor transport, power and tourism
infrastructure has accounted for 37 percent. Agriculture and fisheries
have received 23 percent, and industrial and hotel financing, mostly
through the Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), 15 per-
cent of total commitments.
24.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its
efforts in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and
social development. It will also assist projects which enhance regional
integration and help reduce the gap between income groups, and between
urban and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to employment
creation and institution building. In addition to the proposed small-scale
industry development project, the lending program includes projects in
various stages of processing in the agricultural sector, in industry,
power, highways, urban development, health and education.
25.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program; it
will be more centered in the future on the analysis ot economic issues and
policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum
exporting to a petroleum importing country including appropriate interest
rate policies (paras. 12 to 14). Two major reports in 1980 on the
mechanical and electrical industries and on the social aspects of
development provided a better knowledge of the country's industrial
development base and prospects in these sub-sectors, and a better
understanding of income disparities by evaluating the Government's social
policies aimed at poverty alleviation. Future reports will include a
review of pricing and subsidy policies in the rural sector, of the Sixth
Plan (1982-1986), and of the agricultural, education and training, urban
and energy sectors.
26.      The Bank and IDA accounted tor about 12 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1970-1979. Their share in total debt out-
standing and disbursed at the end oa 1979 (including loans from private
sources) was 10 percent and their share in debt service during 1979 was
11 percent. The Bank's and IDA's share in Tunisia's disbursed external
debt by 1986 is expected to decrease to about 7 percent, and their share in
the debt service would increase to about 16 percent.
27.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), BDET (a
Tunisian development finance company), in Compagnie Financiere et
Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest in tourism projects),



- 9 -
in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel development), in
Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminium fluoride from local
fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated tourism development
project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $13.3 million, as of
December 31, 1980.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
28.      Manufacturing.  The beginning of the 1970s saw an important
reorientation of government policies towards manufacturing. A stronger
emphasis than before was placed on the private sector (including foreign
investments) and on labor-intensive industries. As a result, manufacturing
industries grew at an accelerated pace. Real growth of the sector
increased from 6.4 percent per annum in the 1960s to close to 10 percent in
the 1970s. Food processing and textiles remained the two most important
subsectors, contributing together more than half of manufacturing output
and two thirds of employment in the sector. In response to generous export
incentives by the Government, the value of manufacturing exports increased
on the average by over 20 percent per year throughout the decade, with
textiles as the most dynamic subsector increasing its share in manufactur-
ing exports from 3.6 percent in 1969 to 44.3 percent in 1979. The Govern-
ment expects manufacturing industries to continue to play a leading role in
the country's development, particularly in providing jobs for the rapidly
increasing labor force. The new Development Plan (1982-86) is likely to
address a number of structural weaknesses in the sector, such as low
productivity and capacity utilization, over-capitalization, and short-
comings in the incentive framework and in pricing and protection policies.
29.      Small Scale Industries.  According to the 1978 Industrial Survey,
about 850 small scale industries (SSIs, defined as manufacturing enter-
prises with between 10 and 50 employees, excluding handicraft units)
represented about two-thirds of all manufacturing enterprises, and
accounted for about 19 percent of employment, 13 percent of value added and
11.5 percent of investment in the sector. The importance of SSIs in the
economy is, however, much more significant, since the survey was based only
on a partial and outdated listing of SSIs. The shift in Government policy
towards the private sector during the 1970s benefitted particularly SSIs.
Although pertormance data for SSIs for the last decade are incomplete,
indications are that SSI investment and employment grew faster than for the
manufacturing sector as a whole. However, real value added failed to keep
pace with the growth in investment and employment, pointing to a reduction
in productivity. The reasons for this are mainly internal to the enter-
prises and are often related to the inexperience of the entrepreneurs.
Production planning, accounting and management are frequently poor, the
equipment is sometimes unsuited for the purpose and the product choice
inappropriate. The technical assistance to be provided to SSIs in the
context of proposed project would address these weaknesses (paras. 4E8-50).



- 10 -
30.      The Financial System and Industrial Financing.  Tunisia has a well
developed financial sector with a large number and variety of institutions
catering to the financial needs of the country. The Central Bank (BCT), at
the apex of the system, controls the commercial banks and the credit supply
through direct measures, such as prior approval of credits and rediscount
ceilings, and indirect incentives and disincentives, such as liquidity,
solvency and development financing ratios, and the fixing of interest and
rediscount rates. In industry, large industrial projects are generally
sponsored by the public sector and financed by the Government or direct
foreign borrowing, while the banking system finances investments mostly for
medium scale projects. Financing of SSIs has become more important in
recent years, partly due to a special program set up by the Government
(para. 33), but has remained relatively minor as compared to the overall
volume of commercial banks' lending.
31.      Among BCT's policy measures affecting the commercial banks' term
lending to the private sector, the development ratio and the level of
interest rates are the most important. The development ratio currently
requires commerical banks to transform 18 percent of their depos_ts into
medium-term loans. Commercial banks which do not meet this ratio have, as
a penalty, to deposit the shortfall into a non-interest bearing account
with BCT.
32.      While the development ratio has acted as a definite incentive to
banks to increase their term lending to the private sector, the tight
control over interest rates, and the limitation on the spread between
deposit and lending rates, has tended to reduce the commercial banks' will-
ingness to consider financing ventures offering more than a minimum degree
of risk. In early 1980, the weighted average cost of resources used by
commercial banks for term lending was 4.4 percent, while the lending rate
for rediscountable term credit was limited to 8.25 percent. The banks
regarded the resulting spread of 3.8 percent as insufficient to justify
the cost and risk involved in assuming more aggressive lending policies.
Although specialized development finance institutions, such as the Economic
Development Bank of Tunisia (BDET), fill part of the unmet demand for
long-term credit, until now the financial system as a whole has not fully
satisfied the needs for term financing of SSIs. The improvement to the
renumeration of commercial banks to be introduced through the proposed
project, would go a long way towards making lending to SSIs more attractive
to the banks (paras. 45 and 46).
33.      Government Assistance to SSIs.  For some time, the Government has
recognized the potential value of SSIs to the development of the country,
given their relatively low investment requirements, their mobility and
their potential role in training unskilled workers. Since 1974, the
FOPRODI (Fund for the Promotion and Decentralization of Industries), a
budgetary facility within the Ministry of Planning and Finance, has
provided low-cost financial assistance to SSI projects. The loan terms
are for up to 12 years maturity including up to 5 years grace, at 4 to 5
percent interest, with special financial incentives for investments in the
less developed regions of Tunisia (North-West, Center-West and South). The



- 11 -
FOPRODI is administered by the commercial banks with the assistance ot the
Investment Promotion Agency (API), who determines the eligibility ot SSIs
for FOPRODI assistance. Between 1976 ana 1979, FOPRODI has supported 375
projects costing about $105 million and creating more than 10,000 new
jobs. The eftectiveness of this scheme, however, has been hampered by
complex and centralized administrative procedures. As a result, the poten-
tial benefits of the scheme have not fully materialized and the etforts to
promote industrial decentralization have had little success. Technical
assistance to SSIs relating to project preparation and management are pro-
vided by a special SSI department, created within API in the context ot the
Bank's Pilot Line of Credit to SSIs (Loans 1504 and 1505-TUN of January 25,
1978). Technical assistance to SSIs on a more limited scale is also pro-
vided by several other institutions, such as the National Center for Indus-
trial Studies (CNEI) mostly in the form of sector surveys/market studies
and project feasibility reports; the Agency for Industrial Land (AFI)
through the provision of industrial land; the Tunisian Industry, Commerce
and Handicraft Association (UTICA), for the general promotion of private
business interests; and BDET.
34.      Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector.  To date, Bank financing
of manufacturing industries in Tunisia has been limited to loans provided
through financial intermediaries. BDET has received seven loans trom the
Bank totalling $95.8 million (net of cancellations), of which $8.3 million
remain undisbursed as of December 31, 1980. Most ot these funds were used
to finance manufacturing industries, although lending for hotels also took
a large share, especially in the early years. The Bank's relationship with
BDET has been most fruitful. It helped fill BDET's foreign resource
requirements while contributing at the same time to strengthening the
bank's organization and operating procedures. At the end of 1979, BDET
held about 40 percent of all long-term industrial credit outstanding to
industry in Tunisia, and about 30 percent of private industrial credit. As
a result of strong project appraisal and promotion departments and improv-
ing supervision efforts, arrears (about 2 percent of portfolio) and the
debt equity ratio (about 6.3:1) were kept at sound levels.
35.      The last loan to BDET (Ln. 1504-TUN) of $30 million included $2
million earmarked for financing the expansion of SSIs. Simultaneously with
this loan, the Bank provided $5 million to the Government (Ln. 1505-TUN) to
be used exclusively for lending to new SSIs by commercial banks partici-
pating in the FOPRODI scheme (para. 33) and BDET as intermediaries. The
purpose of the Bank's SSI pilot scheme was to strengthen the ongoing
initiatives in the field of financial and technical assistance to SSIs, and
to provide lessons on which subsequent Bank loans for SSIs could be based.
36.      Experience with the SSI pilot project has shown that the avail-
ability of special resources for SSI lending alone is not enough to
encourage commercial banks to intensify their lending to SSIs. Indeed, the
commercial banks have been reluctant to utilize the Bank pilot facility
because (i) they regarded the risk of lending to SSIs unacceptably high in
relation to the expected profits; and (ii) as long as they had not met the



- 12 -
18 percent development ratio (para. 31), they would rather convert their
own deposits into SSI loans than utilize special resources provided by the
Bank, which would not count towards satistying the ratio requirement. As a
result, commercial banks have only committed about 36.5 percent of the
$5 million loan to the Government. The balance was taken up by BDET, which
as a development finance company is not constrained by the development
ratio. BDET has made a special effort to promote SSI financing and
established a small operating unit catering exclusively to the needs of its
SSI clients. The problems encountered by the pilot project have been
analyzed in detail by the Bank, the Government and the Central Bank, and
appropriate policies to resolve them have been designed in the context ot
the proposed project.
37.      Through its industrial sector work on Tunisia, the Bank has been
able to initiate a fruitful dialogue with the Government on policies and
measures to promote SSIs. Since December 1979, the Government has made
some modifications to the Investment Code to reduce the bias against small
scale investments. The incentive system, however, continues to favor large
projects, in terms of investment cost and the number of jobs created, with
little consideration for the efficiency of such projects. We intend to
pursue our policy discussions on this matter with the Government in the
context of the Bank's future sector work and during the supervision ot the
proposed project (para. 51).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
38.      The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission in March
1979, as a follow up to the SSI pilot project (paras. 35 and 36) and was
appraised in March/April 1980. Project design and institutional require-
ments were discussed further with the Government subsequently, in
Washington in October 1980 and Tunis in November 1980. Negotiations were
held in Washington in February 1981. The Tunisian delegation was led by
Mr. Zein Mestiri and included representatives ot the Central Bank ot
Tunisia and the Investment Promotion Agency. A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report: First Small Scale Industry Development Project" (No.
3266-TUN, dated March 13, 1981) is being distributed separately. The main
features of the loan and project are listed in the Loan and Project bummary
and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
39.      The project aims at supporting the Government's efforts to estab-
lish a comprehensive assistance program for small scale industries (SSIs)
to help them reach their potential in generating employment, improving
intersectoral linkages, developing industrial managers and technicians,
and alleviating regional imbalances. Institutional and administrative



- 13 -
structures and procedures would be acapted to make them more responsive to
the needs of SSIs, and the framework for financial and technical assistance
would be strengthened.
Proposed Project and Bank Loan
40.      The proposed project would support the Government's program or
promoting SSIs through financial and technical assistance. The proposed
Bank loan would be made to the Government, which would assume the foreign
exchange risk, and would finance the estimated foreign exchange cost of the
project. $29.35 million of the Bank loan would be administered by the
Central Bank of Tunisia and made available under a Line of Credit to small
entrepreneurs through participating banks. The remainder of the loan
($0.65 million) would strengthen the appraisal capacity of the Investment
Promotion Agency (API).
41.      Selection Criteria for Financial Assistance.  In principle, all
SSI subprojects with an investment cost of up to D 500,000 ($1,250,000)
including permanent working capital, would be eligible for financing under
the proposed Line of Credit, provided they yield a financial rate of return
of at least 10 percent. However, investment cost per job created (exclud-
ing the cost of land) would have to be below D 6,900 ($17,250) in January
1981 prices. This is in line with the Government's employment creation
objectives (paras. 11 and 12). Furthermore, to ensure access by smaller
SSIs to the Line of Credit, at least 50 percent of it would be reserved for
projects costing up to D 250,000 ($625,000). In addition, promoters with
few resources of their own and eligible for FOPRODI assistance (para. 33),
would have access to at least one third ($10 million) of the total amount
of the Line of Credit. Assurances from the Government on the subproject
selection criteria and on the allocation of the Line of Credit among the
categories of subprojects mentioned above were obtained during negotiations
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.02 and Schedule 2, para. 1).
42.      Role of Participating Banks.  All Tunisian commercial banks and
the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia (BDET) will have access to the
proposed Line of Credit, on a tirst-come-first-served basis. A number of
modifications in the procedures of the pilot project are proposed to
increase the incentive for the commercial banks to take advantage ot this
facility. The participating banks would be responsible for subproject
appraisal and the disbursement and collection of subloans. The Government
would pay them a commission for these services. For each subproject, the
participating banks, to ensure their involvement, would also be required to
supplement loan funds from the Line of Credit with loans made out of their
own resources amounting to at least 20 percent of each subproject's invest-
ment cost.
43.      Role of Investment Promotion Agency (API).  API would assist the
commercial banks in the appraisal of subprojects by reviewing the appraisal
reports as to their economic, financial and technical viability, and the
eligibility of subprojects for financing under the Line of Credit.
Subprojects with an investment cost of D 250,000 and above would require



- 14 -
Bank approval before final agreement to finance them under the Line of
Credit would be granted. Subprojects costing less than D 250,000, except
for the first two subprojects submitted by each participating bank, would
quality for Bank financing without such prior approval, atter they have
been accepted by API and a participating bank. At least 44 percent of
the proposed Line of Credit is expected to be for such subprojects, repre-
senting about 70 out of a total of about 130 subprojects expected to
be financed. In addition to the selection criteria mentioned above
(para. 41), the Bank would expect projects costing more than D 250,000 to
achieve a minimum simplified economic rate of return of 10 percent, which,
for projects benefitting from a nominal customs duty protection in excess
of 30 percent, would be based on c.i.f. prices of competing imports rather
than local market prices while applying a uniform shadow wage rate of
75 percent of the actual cost to retlect the ditference between the market
wage and the economic price for labor. API would compute the simplified
economic rate of return and include this information together with their
evaluation of the economic, financial and technical feasibility of the sub-
project, in a summary report to the Bank which would accompany each sub-
project's appraisal report. Assurances were obtained during negotiations,
that API will review all subproject appraisal reports on the basis ot the
agreed criteria and methodology (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, paras.
1-4). API's capacity to perform this appraisal review function would be
strengthened by two experts, one engineer to review the technical viability
of subprojects, assess their needs for technical assistance and train API's
staff in these respects, and one economist/market expert to check on the
economic viability of subprojects and provide related training to API's
staff. The terms of reference of the experts assisting API in these
reviews have been confirmed during negotiations. The experts, who are
expected to have to be hired from abroad, would be engaged for two years
each at an estim.ted cost of $10,000 per man-month. The estimate includes
all foreign exchange cost, such as salaries, international travel and
vehicles, but excludes office space and supplies, and other local cost,
which would be financed by the Government. In addition, ad hoc consultan-
cies on specific technical or market problems would also be eligible for
financing under this component. The proposed loan provides an amount of
$650,000 to assist in financinj the services of the experts and consultants.
44.      Onlending Procedures.  The Bank funds would be onlent to SSI
subborro'wers through participating banks at least at the same interest rate
they c arge on rediscountable medium-term loans to industry.  This rate is
currently 8.25 percent per year; it is positive in real terms given
Tunisia's relatively low past and projected inflation rates.  The cost-of-
living index rose by 5.4 percent in 1978, 7.6 percent in 1979 and 9.2
percent in 1980, and is expected to increase by about 7 percent on the
average between 1981 and 1983. The Government would absorb the difference
between the Bank lending rate and the onlending rate. The maturities of
subloans would be based on the economic life of the equipment purchased and
on the subprojects' cash-flows, and would not exceed 13 years including 3
years of grace. Assurances from the Government were obtained during



-- 15 -
negotiations on the above terms and conditions on subloans (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 2, paras. 7 and B).
45.      The participating banks would receive commissions for their
services from the Government. The commissions would be structured in such
a way as to reward particularly early disbursements and full subloan
collection. They would consist of a one-time commission ot three percent
of subloan disbursements on subprojects committed during the first year
after loan effectiveness (declining to two percent thereafter), and a
commission of between one and seven percent of debt service collections
increasing with the collection rate in any one year from below 50 percent
(earning a one-percent commission) to 100 percent (earning a seven-percent
commission). The overall level of commissions of about 2 percent ot
amounts committed would represent about twice that which the participating
banks received under the pilot project (paras. 35 and 36). It would be
comparable to the profit margin commercial banks would receive if they used
their own funds for this type of business. Assurances from the Government
were obtained during negotiations that it will pay at least the commission
levels mentioned above (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, para. 12). As an
additional incentive, the Central Bank would credit each sponsoring bank's
rediscount quota with an amount equal to its disbursements trom the Line ot
Credit (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, para. 11). As a result ot the
difference between the money market and Central Bank rediscount rates, this
would translate into an added remuneration to participating banks of about
1 percent per annum of amounts committed on the average.
46.      Even though the participating banks will act as intermediaries to
channel the loan funds from the Government to the promoters ot subprojects,
they will be expected to share in the default risk. The share in the risk
coverage would be one third on projects benetitting trom FOPRODI assis-
tance, where promoters are expected to have limited financial income and
difficulty in providing commercial guarantees, and one halt on all other
projects. These arrangements would apply to subloans made out of the Bank
Line of Credit as well as to those funded from the banks' own resources,
and were confirmed during negotiations (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2,
para. 10). The commissions, the increase in the rediscount quotas, and the
risk sharing arrangements should provide a satisfactory level of remunera-
tion to the participating banks to ensure their taking advantage of the
proposed Line of Credit (para. 56).
47.      The proceeds of the Bank Line of Credit would be applied to cover
the full foreign exchange costs of the subprojects, which, based on the
experience under the pilot project, are estimated to average at least
50 percent of total subprojects costs. The remainder would typically be
financed through a 30 percent equity participation by the sponsors--which
could, in the case of FOPRODI subprojects, be partly financed through
personal loans--and a medium or long-term loan by the participating banks
to the promoters. This additional direct lending relationship between
participating banks and the small entrepreneurs is considered to be essen-
tial to ensure a close supervision of the subprojects by the banks.



- 16 -
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a direct loan by
participating banks to cover at least 20 percent of total investment costs
of subprojects be an additional eligibility criterion for financing under
the proposed Line of Credit (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, para. 3).
The operational arrangements governing the utilization of the Line of
Credit (appraisal, approval and supervision of subprojects, disbursement
procedures) would be specified in a financing agreement satisfactory to the
Bank, between the Government, the Central Bank, API and the participating
banks. The signature and ratification of this agreement by those parties
concerned, including at least two commercial banks and BDET, would be a
condition of effectiveness of the loan (draft Loan Agreement, Sections
3.01(d), 6.01 and 6.02).
Technical Assistance
48.      In order for the project to succeed, the financial resources to be
provided under the proposed Line of Credit have to be combined with an
effective system of technical assistance. To this end, both API, which has
extended technical assistance to SSIs for some years and the National
Center for Industrial Studies (CNEI) (para. 33), would strengthen their
capability to provide such assistance by training new staff, opening new
branch offices and widening the scope of their actions. API's and CNEI's
technical assistance capabilities will be available as needed by the SSIs
during the full project cycle, from identification through the feasibility
study stage to project implementation, and management and marketing. As in
the past, both agencies are expected to be able to draw on external, bila-
teral and UNDP aid in the form of provision of foreign experts.
49.      In this connection, UNDP is discussing with the Tunisians a
program of assistance, primarily to CNEI, to provide on-the-job training to
its staff through foreign experts. API would also benefit from this UNDP
program for ad-hoc consultancies to address specific technical problems
during the implementation of SSI projects. Confirmation from the Govern-
ment was obtained during negotiations that the draft UNDP project docu-
ment relating to its assistance to SSIs will be submitted to the Bank for
review and comment.
50.      API's annual work programs are routinely reviewed by the Ministry
of National Economy, the Ministry responsible for API. The programs
dealing with technical assistance to SSIs for 1980-82 were reviewed by the
Bank and are satisfactory for the purposes of the proposed project. API's
current expenditures are covered through budgetary allocations by the
Government. Assurances were obtained during negotiations from the Govern-
ment that it will provide the necessary financial support to API to carry
out its annual work programs after submitting them to the Bank for review
and comment (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). Assurances were obtained
that API will assess the needs for technical assistance of all subprojects
to be financed under the proposed Line of Credit to ensure that any
technical assistance requirements are met either by API directly, or by
CNEI or private consultants (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a) and
Schedule 2, para. 4).



- 17 -
Policy Measures in bupport of SbIs
51.      While the incentive ana remuneration package for the participating
banks (paras. 45 and 46), to be introduced through the proposed project is
expected to go a long way in increasing the banks' interest in SSI lending,
Government's efforts to promote bbIs in general are still experimental. In
this context, the Government is reassessing its overall policies towards
bbli development, particularly the role of the development ratio (para. 31)
as it affects ibl lending, the feasibility of establishing a comprehensive
credit guarantee scheme, the removal of biases in the general industrial
incentive system against SbI investments, and the adequacy of the existing
and proposed financial and technical assistance arrangements. Assurances
have been ootained from the Government during negotiations that it will
review, through annual consultations with the Bank, the adequacy of exist-
ing ana any new policy measures affecting SbI development. The first of
such reviews woula take place not later than six months after loan effec-
tiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures
52.      The goods and services required under the proposed project would
be for the most part purchased by borrowing S6Is through local commercial
channels. Given the size and type of subloans, competitive bidding is not
feasible. BDEI and the commercial banks, however, will see to it that
procurement is carried out in an economical and efficient manner. API,
when reviewing the technical viability of subprojects, will ensure that
borrowers normally obtain at least three price quotations from suppliers or
contractors. Assurances confirming these procedures were obtained from the
Government auring negotiations (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
53.      The Central Bank of Tunisia (BCT) would administer the Bank loan.
It would be responsible for transmitting to the Bank the participating
banks' appraisal reports on subprojects requiring prior Bank approval
(while the appraisal reports on subprojects not requiring prior Bank
approval would be available on request) together with API's summary
reports, submit withdrawal applications, act as the Government's agent for
disbursing the loan proceeds to sub-borrowers through the participating
banks, and be responsible for servicing the Bank loan on behalf of the
Government. Withdrawal applications for the Line of Credit to SSIs would
be submitted on the basis of full documentation. The Bank would disburse
into a project account with BCT which, in turn, would transfer the lccal
currency counterparts of such disbursements to the accounts of the partic-
ipating banks. The opening of the project account by BCT would be a condi-
tion of loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01(c) and
6.01(b)).  Disbursements under the technical assistance component for API
(para. 43) would be for 100 percent of fully documented foreign exchange
expenditures.
54.      The BGT would also monitor the collection on subloans debiting the
Government account in case of arrears and defaults by sub-borrowers.
Participating banks would transfer the debt service collected on subloans
to BCT's project account (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, para. 9).
bubprojects would be submitted to the Bank between mid-1981 and mid-1984



- 18 -
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.03). The Closing Date of the loan would
be December 31, 1986 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.04). The loan would
be repaid according to a composite amortization schedule reflecting the
amortization schedules of subprojects, over about 15 1/2 years, including 3
years of grace. Assurances from the Government on the obligations of BCT
with respect to the administration of the Loan were obtained during
negotiations (draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.10 and Schedule 2,
paras. 2-5).
Project Benefits and Risks
55.      The proposed loan is expected to provide direct assistance to
about 130 SSI subprojects creating about 5,200 additional jobs. It will
help establish an effective and comprehensive financial and technical
assistance framework, within which SSIs will be able to develop and make an
important contribution to the economic development of Tunisia. This new
structure will permit the Government to take advantage of increased finan-
cial assistance to SSI from bilateral and other multilateral sources.
Finally, the proposed project will foster a continuation of the fruitful
dialogue between the Government and the Bank on appropriate policy measures
for an accelerated development of SSIs in Tunisia.
56.      The possible risks of the project are two-told;  (i) commercial
banks may continue to be reluctant to lend to SSIs resulting in a slower
than expected drawdown of the Line of Credit; and (ii) the subprojects may
suffer from a high degree of defaults because of inadequate subproject
preparation, implementation or management. Sufficient provisions are
included in the project to limit these risks. A comprehensive incentive
and remuneration package was designed to convince the banks that SSIs are a
potential group of new customers worth making special efforts to attract.
The experience gained over the the past year under the Pilot Line indicated
that the risk of lack of interest among commercial banks has lessened. The
remuneration package together with other policy measures affecting SSI
development will be reviewed six months after loan effectiveness and once a
year thereafter, with a view to correcting any inadequacies. As regards
the quality of subprojects, the technical assistance to SSIs provided by
API and CNEI in general, and API's review of all subprojects to be financed
under the proposed Line of Credit in particular, should help screen out
non-viable projects. In view of the important potential contribution ot
the project to the development of SSIs in Tunisia, these risks are
manageable and well-worth taking.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
57.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions ot the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be the



- 19 -
signing and ratification of a financing agreement between Government, the
Central Bank, API, BDET and at least two commercial banks (draft Loan
Agreement, Sections 3.01(d), 6.01(a) and 6.02), and the opening, by the
Central Bank, of a project account (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01(c)
and 6.01(b)).
58.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
March 26, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 20-                                                                 ANNEX I
Page i of 6
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERqGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             164.0                                                      MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      76.6                                  MOST RECENT           NDRTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA S CARIRBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      .        360.0    1120.0                 818.5                   1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      190.0       261.0      543.0                 545.0                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       4.2          5.1       6.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0          43.5      50.1                  45.7                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        26.0        31.0       37.0                  40.7                     28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      55.0        67.0       78.0                 598.6                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.3         46.2      42.6                  44.0                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                          52.5        50.0       53.8                  52.5                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.2          3.8       3.6                   3.5                      3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8 /c       1.9/c     2.0                   2.6                      2.7
URBAN                                *-          3.8       3.9                   4.5                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      49.0         42.0      32.0                  41.6                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      21.0         15.0      12.0                  13.7                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1          3.4       2.2                   2.9                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         29.2      73.5
5SERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            8.0      18.0                  16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           97.0        98.0      126.0                  93.5                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    80.0        88.0      112.0                 103.6                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0         57.0      73.0                  69.8                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        12.0         14.0      22.0                  17.5                     33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      29.0         20.0      15.0                  L7.5                      8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTN (YEARS)    48.0          54.0      57.0                  54.4                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                      148.0/d     135.0         ..                    ..                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         49.0      70.0                  62.5                     65.9
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  82.9                     80.4
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  45.1                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     62.3
URBAN                                ..           ..      30.0                    ..                     79.4
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          10000.0       5950.0    4800.0                4688.7                   1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..        730.0    1070.0                1751.5                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             373.0le     410.0      439.0                 635.5                    480.3
URBAN                                ..       280.0
RURAL                                ..       930.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         24.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          5.1 /f    6.0
URBAN                                            5.1 7?f   5.8
RURAL                                ..          5.1 7f    6.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          3.2 /f
URBAN                                ..          2.7 7      ..
RURAL                                ..          3.6 7       .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         24.0 /f
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..



- 21 -                                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEGA(ES
- NOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   W90 /b RSTIHAT  lb          KIDDLZ lAST       IATIN AM5RICA 4 CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                66.0       100.0      100.0                 76.4                    99.7
MALE                 88.0       120.0     118.0                  92.2                   101.0
FEMALE               43.0        79.0      81.0                  59.9                    99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 12.0        23.0      22.0                  33.3                    34.4
MALE                 19.0        33.0      28.0                 41.9                     33.5
FEMALE                5.0        13.0      15.0                  24.2                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 24.0         12.0       17.0                  9.8                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           61.0        48.0      40.0                  39.2                    30.5
SECONDARY                         16.0        28.0      23.0                  25.1                    14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15.5        24.0/f    55.0                  39.7                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        11.0        13.0      18.3                  15.3                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        40.0        74.0     138.0                 139.6                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.1        10.0      35.0                  29.0                    84.2
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 19.0        16.0      33.0                  22.2                    63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0          ..        2.3                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    1137.9       1214.8    1533.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   6.1         7.7       8.0                   9.6                    22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             56.0        49.8      45.0                  47.0                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                17.6        21.0      24.0                 23.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               27.0        23.7      23.7                  26.1                    31.5
MALE                                50.2        44.2       44.0                 47.4                    48.9
FEMALE                               3.3         3.6       4.0                   4.7                    14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4         1.8        1.8                  1.9                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..      17.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..      42.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..       6.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..      15.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    204.0                  262.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      97.0                 140.4                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     193.0                 202.1                   474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     193.0                 122.2                   332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      20.0                  22.1
RURAL                               ..          ..      15.0                 33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1960-65 average;
/I 1962. /f 1966.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                                                                   Page .3 of 6
DgTOltltVtPS Of SOCdA. INDICATtIS
th.1ic... ...e   todact th   rdr   f senied. L-dist  trend.  and cartete etin aceita.asbena-  tIa. eta
ma   etasee  getpe  rc  I)thesae c.aenr  crepof  he  uh cc  ouety ad   l tooitco  eec  e thteeaha   bn hr  narna  ersa  ra  tb  conty  cee
atI..ublte             .....(tep   ceCpia  tapu    t   ee tr'rcpte                       'Ittdlalve    arhAei  anMld tdl  Ea".atoe   hec.. ofar.
ael-tiaula  initteal    it ti   eeat   reep data the corccase   paiatto hel ntd arien    .rct   o  seth ledIIcato  and she-   aty  h.. at
iathiofnC  trsne   taaro   a   tate  httdcte Ilt-t.  eertla tacta   en  the m,d iccr  oyrd                                                       on  he sea11 t "sIte  at1
dat  ad  I  tt 'titon.  acht  oatleteeatd  t  rtacta  attata   f  netndcatrtactha.    hcaoeea;a   ta   ni  uateRtotetertn  et  ei_
7.1.1 - I C.1   C.I  ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~      ~    ~     ~    ~     Penttcnea  teitlte fle  -dtcL.    a.adre -   Pplc)a(cci
Asli-P   I CtPT. 111   -toerca  ccttcc atttec cet  ries.tat                                       aeha.   and  enal d. 4IivieL   y  hi  r         dpetnnnder a.  itatatbd
C      entty CAITAkiera aUS) Coat aqaitate    pn-tepna                      .....171   cod .118   mas.i:defe        dae.   ebya al.Ic  te-pentint a             Ie e    ed prnda
dae                                                                                        fate   enaofsdicCIclcia    Ptacnseol  upee                                eh  eat
TeneIto aritn.  Kid-Ya atlr.)-hofuy .. 1"; MO1. 1970. co  1978                                  dtstn   ace. aevt  led h-c trial n.P.ohsr o   Ct an   to;, ar tla:,Id,c
eat.,                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~tramild heapeat   d ,ivide pr I.a1 a   ofd hpd.a.1dhpII,R  
POPchATI    A   VcecITAL SrAecTI  ofS Lcrt)..Ratsof  ebI -notea          e-ectttt
d,It Peaedeltiepa  lbecrs1a  attect   1  19ecrh0lt 19 I0 ict 198                                                                       .-.  I   dypl..C
nettgttri-a    Ia           f nt  ar R91.ct.                                                unfce  Sle:f.hethed  (cetacea  hapsvlll-tod.Irhn.andrbal
Peeulttea  n ter 100  - Itrate ptpccaat   p-e1-vitts tea beso  en 1990               eta their nab  meate.  t hoarde,r cc  attr.nyc   a   eIh nlddi
toa    eaainby se .sd  -e  and cha1 Ir anlt   and tunlity Cste.                    ch. heeeadte  tt-tca   opse
led.8   ca   aal   ,  enaiat    nblt ga  7                   ....sr. .h  psc-               dlItig   reafpavler.           mal irg   eaid   atPrus               totea    o
cae.fa   et tiy' ta. _lo   an   he.leclsaeItlt  tIl C te In                         aattaIfeo peete.                       ,     ;dC n          p'a.-.1
fenttaaedanIoc                    Ibaa    adpe I Icetly  plcate   paretcce.         crcclvtetcct    ervn   1lut  a    -ntt.  ya.                                ee  -4
[cabf veutey  I. that casigned cae of Cbha tie. tfhna e    at -etltty                        tcaiulO11m i dh  t-ityitty it litoln  teraae  prate
mad farttl ity  iceh   . .c prnccint   pepa. .                                         c   ed    ra,cdrrl  el a.caac                           y
etet blahtty        1 evuctc-1Iv  eate dcaurh  papela tentta    i  n   greathATle
calnccncs..      Thta..  InevIycoefd-olysiar ftfrnilty rates ettnat                      ydludla  bota  deant   iRto
Ihr    aaenlalail    et_yaciartteteh;e=ata                                                 P Ieeccvtooctten!nscltsttlaaclol
tte.ea.rtcsecant  eucoy.   hatuccaayroetsitvtaeca                    nret        ithcslaaend- lnrttea    pretue   ctrspettIne
ect pctd        vc bsi  cI tIeproectd    c h.raty... tc ah th  ppayetatlCn  pI-ar  scolcnerlcaa                              calytcieectdt  edt
inth   as  tO.  e  ct  ae  C   aliecttant tyrnetrapic-                 escht ..at..rdi  cro   tvoo   o  ost'e'ct,c;  a
seat letel.                                              ceentricasith  ecirarcal adacailci. torolteerit acy .tctcd  102 ptyoent~~~~~~~~~
Tillntint-            oclat-  .c.     p.a reacica    l -Thyerte  antecypplalo                    seecs  ppt   r   aa   cr ..)haos-1n he ..ii!u-d-     eChcaa._I
caly.". AcataatI0-k.                                                            (.i- alatrvCaea   (eren a"L.                              oasy    -        Vcci>.Ch  cectit-  Itne
64 yer),ad   -ratrd  Ill yearn sodene)fidersta                     e   t-year pare-              deatlyancdpeteh of ecneytntctr
yace rereatnana  It :950-I. UthO-i. sit ilS- t.-                                 iYne-panab..laceha
Peslato   yos I. at   .....o                                                               A  no      .ac   rahenca   naapp- .dult titerac  Isa   ataa   -  itrtaalstel le r  ecd  a  scte
le. tan   tee "     laSt-h. 1963->, cd1-370-70.                                                  uspretg    f IotalI edet tpayolc-icn  *e0 1' yea.cdl Mcs.
Cr-d  ttrth  R.,n  car, tcK ...      - --Ica  lIce  vchepr the..and at sod-yas
peealo;tl. 1970.ca  :q99 te. .CaNSLMTIOctN
Iee  Rnodclc    at-neaenuhr  tdeganP.                    ac  nt-i hoa  In-                shInr,  ehilde
tllyetns;actit fi.v-yas. oeree  e-din  to taIl. 1970, and 977.                                hrccesegnriyt  pbllc 1e   bosc    tpplutn    aitt   el
Ocalr PaneInsIso alvAr-ec        . .atueiatnt.-0         eeaaeo _ie                       t.c........v  iC. ca R.   caaia
saanofchldher egag   i--  pert  beon  hrt-vncaldelcsc               t  ecivra(cr  yrncd   coioic)     t  yceocc  onbrad-at
Iconcelnda  yce hele lostai ic  caEr pimaygoslm   scete                            n   e    al   fi   pecea   ec  ftui nine. accad.                     ~
Icta   o   cgadstc   r  sueta   otannnint    agNafe   n                                       CIdare    trrec   n,CnIeor  erOoe    i,tetrhra
p-dclore cacledei  .   greeacedcta    t                   lahcovr I. ... sd f.On               niaknC     nOdrn   h    ae   nldlcaneln   oOlcc   toc
eattoeslsnerane  prtdaccr eros acight...; le.d I-iI.iy yfO,.andd1910 .dana.   etA    htClI.untes.
sat pneetIea  by- p,tC-  -igedoehyattI.a need. to  cotm8  ad ri-                    t;d  -bte. .i.
P.1   codi  -.I,t cv               --detc    fritmne t-ip- -tar.  bd    tgt.ae               ess(eca -            taCIatba   vtausprcnag    Iaftlbo   or.
cud eta atetniben itn or rc;ctctinn. ada allanint it paeccat Icr aeste or   osnlcetnera I rercant) - Ichor tocca  tic lemma, lotcttro. haatltj uho~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.  ORC
qin.  ttroi  ceteesctbltedb   1    providetari tnta                                 197  an  1978-tat......-l;  90    90-
doe     ldha  Ssrncy l1961-, - '  and1977 dot..oeaearcee  fteeptt.    sodhilt9ve  tIe                                                                  1rnd      97tnset
P.,dlte   I; C     arial try [at f  tt t r th- aea-       dendcolft   d.t.Pa letsu  In.         totetoa        bcettr
at birh: 196. 1970et .... tlei.            db   '            f.ii                         90.    98dC
talnt  tentilr hte  oarnioacr) -coeal  ecta y  IntnC        oe   maya:aen   ellctt
of sea  pee thuso   tie -h teho Ia eatd   hrit-tlnd    eveILttIrSpe c-r)      rhtarIotf 
toeotoaroaCrlh.orvenRt             -   oroae Cvt-nt.otc    cAdroetn                       Aa       TutpnvytcnlC:-,et; stinco.aicitfi071l
anesor e  pavtc  (ota  . ar -t air  -acl nipt.....ovab,WIeerr        h.atot a            nanron tonlly  edqeada    taeaaalaero    euCemat IaI netLI
eceeoeirI ooodc   eetoiarttcesaa   r  eteeedbe  ucetIItn                 I elodul.    I15d.              1                            d
S1977hc   ht  rnpretthraoe.arna   ndtCtrai.                                            ataeatitr   Panelve    aetIt   o    ata  -re    n   ae 
It' seance needs.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~El th
RdaAS                             u..taacdOlu..ili.ahad-spg                   ,
desaoa  so   ~       l-lf paroel-geaor teir napev   teepophetee. fcrn  at-Reat  m   noa   sattat
ICneetdc...t.yAee                     ) P . iu Pejbten     ap ries ht
ptt  pefeaca1. and eeita   l.It lt Ian..



_2 3                                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  6.2 million (mid-1979)
CNP per Capita:  $1,1Z0 (1979)
Amount                                                    Annual Growth Rates
(million US$                   Actual (at 1972 PrIces)                       Proiected  (at 1977 prices)
Indicator                               at current prices)
1979                 1975    1976    1977    1978    1979a/            1980    1981    1982    1983    14',
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product b/                  7080.0                  8.1      7.4     4.3      8.3     6.9             8.0     7.2      6.6      6.4     6.h
Agriculture                              984.7                  3.9     5.2    -7.5       8.6     0.5            8.0      7.6      3.1     3.1      3.1
Industry                                1982.0                  7.4     7.8      7.0     9.1      8.4           11.6      8.5      8.5     8.0      8.0
Services                                3102.9                10.6      5.4      5.8      7.7     8.4            6.6      6.2      6.5     6.5      6.5
Consumption                                5440.3                  2.7      8.8     9.5      9.3      6.0            7.8     9.9    10.0       6.9     9.1
Gross investment                           2069.0                 20.2    16.9      5.8      6.6      9.7            7.2     3.1    -2.9       1.3     0.1
Exports of goods and GNFS                  2655.6                  5.0     9.6      5.6      9.1    12.6             5.0     4.1      7.4      7.3     8.8
Imports of goods and GNFS                  3084.9                  2.2    19.3    16.5    10.2       8.5            4.6      7.5      7.5      4.6     9.6
Gross national product                     7030.7                  8.6      6.0     4.8      9.1      6.3            7.8      7.2     6.5      6.4     6.6
Gross national savings                                            22.5    -6.3    -1.7    21.2    35.8              17.6    -0.9    -4.1       7.6     0.8
PRICES
GDP deflator                                                     134.2   137.7   151.4   158.6   171.9               -       -        -        -       -
Exchange rate                                                      2.49    2.33    2.33    2.40    2.46
Share of GDP at market prices (X)                   Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices)                              (at constant prices)
1970    1975    1979    1985                     1970-75    1975-79    1980-85
Gross domestic product                                           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                        8.5         6.5         6.6
Agriculture                                                    16.7   18.2      13.9    13.1                       8.8        1.3         3.7
Industry                                                      20.5   27.1       28.0    29.2                      9.0         7.8         8.1
Services                                                      49.3   42.7       43.8    43.2                      8.7         6.6         6.4
Consumption                                                       84.8   75.5      76.8    82.8                       8.6         8.3         9.0
Gross Investment                                                  19.7   29.3      29.2    20.9                      11.8         6.5       -0.4
Exports of goods and GNFS                                         21.9   31.3      37.5    40.3                      12.5        12.2         6.9
Imports of goods and GNFS                                         26.4   36.1      43.6    44.0                      11.3        12.7         7.4
Gross national product                                            97.9   99.9      99.3    99.4                       8.7         6.5         6.7
Net factor income                                                  2.1    0.1       0.7      0.6                       -           -           -
Gross national savings                                            13.2   24.3      22.4    17.9                       7.5         5.9       -1.7
As % GDP
(at current prices)
1970      1975       1979 a/
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                        23.5       25.7       33.3
Current expenditure                                    20.4       19.9       24.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                              3.1        5.9        9.0
Capital expenditure                                     9.5       10.8       13.5
Foreign financing                                       5.0        1.8        1.6
1970-75              1975-79               1980-85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                                     8.7                   6.5                  6.7
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                          6.3                   3.9                  4.2
ICOR                                                    2.6                   4.3                  4.0
Marginal savings rate                                  30.5                  17.6                  0.0
Import elasticity                                       1.24                  2.01                 1.12
a/  Estimate.
b/ GDP at market prices and components, at factor cost.
EMENA CP 2C
October, 1980



AN N$ 3 I,
IIIA -tXTEEAl I9AI,1
Popu lIatIon:  6.2 million  (mid-1971
GNP per Capita:  $1,120  119791
Amouint                                                     Annual Growth Rates
(miiiIoln US_                     Actual (at 1972 prices)                                Projected  (at 1977 prices)
Indicator                                  at current pr Icc
1474                   1975      17h      1977      (978     1979             1980      1981     1982      1983     1964
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise *'mportn                           1762.6                   -9.11      5.8    -5.(1      16.0      10.1             6.1       1.3      7.1       h.8      9.3
Crude oil                                    800.0                   27.7   -15.0        1.9     14.0      91.3             11.9     -4.5       9."      8.6       (.0
Other primary                                123.0                 -26.7      21.8   -17.4        i4.7    (O.0            -11.7       5.8       2.7      2.h       2.5
Manuifa, tIror-                              834.h                 -1 4.t      17.2    -1.5      21.9      14.8              1.3      6.3       6.0      5.7      18.8
Icr,ehandis.- Imp rtn                          2827.3                   -0.4      13.6      30.4      5.5      11.7             4.3       7.6      7.7       4.h     1(.0
i-nd                                         358.9                    7.7   -13.5       25.5     11.1     27.7               7.2      9.9     10.0       n.()     8.9
l.-: tr.il-un493.5                                                  43.1   -24.8    -8.5         -3.9      25.7            -9.8      13.(     12.5    -3.4        37.0
?uc-i in, r n    1n  -luipfl-n              1?04.9                   3i.3    1t. l          .4     ;. 2   -11.            -1.3       1.3       (.0      1.3       0.0
Ott,rh                                      12711.2                 -8.()    11.2       i6.(      2.9      14.1              9.9      9.';      9.1      7.3       8.3
Price Index (1972 = 10(i)                             Price  lndeu   (1977 = 10)0
PR I I1S
Export price in.dex                              -                     191.0    181.2    197.9    215.0    267.9              196.4    1(8.Y    241.2    264.2    293.2
Import price  Inden                              -                     170.4   163.7    171.4    18(.6   205.6                146.6   IhO.7    175.4    187.4    203.1
Terms of trade  Index                             -                    112.1    110.7    1(5.5    119.0   130.3               134.0    136.2    137.5   141.0    144.4
Composition l.f Merchandise Trade 10)                       Average Annual Increase  (7;)
(at current prices)                                  _   (at constant prices)
1970       1975        1979        1985                   1970-75      1975-79      1980-85
Fxpor                                                                 l(lt00.).   100.0       I((.0       100.0                    11.6          9.4          6.1
Cru,de  il                                                         24.5       41.8        45.3        54.9                    23.2          3.()         0.0
Other primarv                                                      21.2         18.0        7.1          5.2                    6.7          2.0           3.0
Mannifac -tres                                                      54.3       40.2        47.6        39.9                     6.2         14.3          9.9
m p,rte                                                                Iin.0        0 i(0.0  1(0.0       100.0                    13.4         12.4          7.6
F.. d                                                                20.6      15.8         12.7       17.9                     8.9          7.5      8     .8
Pet rc (elan                                                          4.0       9.8        17.5        22.6                    36.5         23.2         14.5
Machiner, and Fp.(cipment                                            23.0       10.2       24.9        27.6                    15.7          8.3         -0.1
Others                                                               52.4      44.2        44.9        31.9                    10.6         13.2          8.4
Share cf Trade with                   Share of Trade with                        Share of Trade witlc
Industrial Countries (Z)              Developing Countries (Z)              Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1970      1975        1979            1970        1975       1979                 1970        1975       1979
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                             62.6       48.6        74.1           23.4        41.4        n.a.                14.0        10.0        n.a.
Imports                                             62.9       67.1        73.5           33.7        25.7        n.a.                 3.4         7.2        n.a.



ANNFX I
TUNISIA  -  BALANCF OF PAYME3NTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AXD DEBT
(Billi-on US at current prices)
Population:        6.2  Illion Ioid-539i
GNP Per Capit,:  97,12  I (1793
Actual                                                     P-OjOctEd
1970         1975          1976          1977        1978          I197AL         1980       1981        1982       1983        19 S
BALANCE OF PAYIPFNTS
Net exports of goods .5 seovens           -104.9        -208.8        -417.1       -sf7.n        -9q9.7        -478.5       -350.8      -499.5    -567.2    -427.8    -74-.7
Exports of goods & serotoos              355.6      1,529.2       1,479.4       1,b'5.5       2,090.6      2,913.9       3,548.4    4,D62.4   4,748.0    5,503.1    7,1I4.3
Imports of goods & -eroioes              460.1      1,738.0       1,896.5       2,212.5      2,690.3       3,392.4       3,899.2    4,561.9    5,313.2   5,930.9    8,129.:
Net transfers                                53.0         47.4          92.P          46.4          33.6         31.0          36.0        36.f       36.1       36.1        3s.I
Carneot aoo-nt hatluco                     -01.5        -161.4        -364.3       -021.6        -5668.1       '47. 5       -314.8    -463.5     -531.I    -3991 .7   _-70F.5
Direct private Invostment                   25.5         59.2          102.6          p2.3          91.1        164.8         181.3      199.4       219.3      241.3      292.3)
MLT loans (net)                             43.4         124.5         161.1         557.1        468.6         383.0         324.0      346.9       405.7      227.8       559.7
Offiial                                  41.7         182.9         131.5        286.7         184.8         256.8        364.9       366.4      397.4       328.6      280.0
POi-te                                     1.7          21.h          29.b        270.4         283.8         126.2        -40.9       -19.5         8.3    -101.0       279.7
Other oapltal                                 2.0        -53.0          58.6        -185.5          41.4         32.4           -          -           -          -           -
Change In reserves                         -19.4          39,7          42.0          56.7        -35.0        -132.7        -190.4      -82.8       -93.9      -77.2     -143.3
Internatinnal r--eovon                      15.4         347.5         304.5         247.8        282.8         415.5         605.9      688.8       782.7      859.9   1,134.7
Fesorves as  -onths of Inports               0.4           2.4           1.9           1.3           1.3          1.5           1.9         1.8        1.8         1.7        1.7
ActE al
1970      1975      1976       1977      1978      1979a/
fR00SS DiSBtIiBRR:SNTS
Official grants                                                    43.0       50.7      53.2      47.3       32.7      31.0
Cr-ss dlshboorneonts of riIT 10 ..ns                               88.8      191.8    227.2    54.77    925.1    661.6
Concesslonal                                                     45.2    100.1    108.7    178.4    182.5    279.6
Other multiluier-l                                                L.1        5.5        -        0.3        7.6      12.7
Sileteral                                                        41.3      82.0      99.8      172.5    174.1    266.7
IDA                                                               2.9      12.6       8.9        5.6       0.8       0.2
Non-cnce-ssional                                                   43.6      91.7      118.5    468.3    392.6    382.2
Private                                                          13.1      4q.8       52.7     311.8    334.8    241.7
Off icla   export credits                                         1.3      15.0       16.5    100.6       12.0       16.3
IBD                                                              9.2      26.9      25.3       47.5      33.0      55.4
Pther oultilater-l                                                 -         -       24.5        8.4      12.8      67.3
PXTERNAI. DEBT
Bebt Ootsrandisg sod Dlsobrsod                                    544.8  1,038.9   1,175.2  1,780.1   2,358.9  2,893.9
Officlal                                                        370.9    882.2    987.5   1,308.6  1,567.1   1,931.3
18RD                                                          70.1    109.9       127.9    167.3    189.4    232.0
ITA                                                            36.7      55.3      64.1      66.8       67.4      67.3
Other                                                        264.1    697.1    795.5  1,074.5  1,310.3  1,632.5
Private                                                         173.9    176.7    1E7.7    471.5    791.8    962.6
Endlsbsrsed debt                                                  309.9    725.3  1,260.4  1,552.5  1,708.9   1,569.9
DEBT SEBVICE
Total debt sorvsre payoenrr                                        63.2      101.5    104.8    143.7    201.6    310.3
Interest                                                         17.8      35.1       38.7      53.9      95.0     142.7
'ayments as 7 espoots                                              17.8        6.7       7.1       8.5       9.6       10.7
Paymrents as X (NP                                                  4.4        2.4       2.4       2.8        3.4       4.4
A.ver-ge Interest rate on new Loans (X)                               -        3.Q       5.1       6.2        7.1       6.3
Offilal                                                           -        3.3        4.3       4.7       4.8        6.3
Private                                                            -        6.7        8.0       7.7       9.8         -
Soorage natonoy oi new  uoans (vearsl                                 -       24.0  .   20.7       10.3      14.9      19.4
OffInlal                                                           -       27.1      23.9       21.4      19.5      19.4
Provate                                                            -        9.1        8.9      10.7       9.4         -
As 74 of DPobt Oststanding
at End of Mos:t Reort
Year (1979)
DEPT STPIICTURE
Maturity strocture of debt o-tstranding iY
AmortIzation due within 5 years                                                          49.0
s-ootination due withlo 10 yours                                                         92.7
Interest otnuetoro of debt outstanding (7)
Intorest don within first year                                                            h.5
a/  Fstimatns.



-26  -                                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of December 31, 1980)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                                    Amount (less
Credit                                                                                     Cancellation)
Number   Year            Borrower                     Purpose                        Bank    IDA b/   Undis.
Twenty-four Loans ard Credits Fully Disbursed                                       162.36   60.47
238     1971  Republic of Tunisia               Population                                    4.80      1.14
858      1972  Repuhlic of Tunisia              Tourism Infrastructure              14.00               2.52
937      1973  Republic of Tuinisia             Urban Planning & Public             11.00               1.42
Transportation                    -
1029      1974  Republic of Tunisia              Hotel Training                       5.60               0.39
1042      1974  Comprignie des Phosphates        Phosphate Development               23.30               1.63
et Chemin de Fer de GAFSA
1068      1974  Republic of Tunisia              Irrigation Rehabilitation           12.20               4.73
1088     1975  Republic of Tunisia              Urban Sewerage                      28.00               13.74
1155      1975  Republic of Tunisia             Third Education                       8.60               8.20
1188      1975  Republic of Tunisia              Second Highways                     28.00              23.14
1189      1976  Banque de D4veloppement          Sixth Development Finance Co.   20.00                   0.68
Economique de Tunisie (BDET)
238-1     1976  Republic of Tunisia              Population                                    4.80      1.12
1340      1976  Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Second Agricultural Credit              12.00               4.10
1355     1976  Societe Tunisienne de            Second Power                         14.50               0.62
l'Electricit6 et du Gaz
1431      1977  Republic of Tunisia              Irrigation Development             42.00               18.56
1445      1977  SONEDE                           Fourth Water Supply                 21.00              16.26
-Q.     U977  BDET                             Development Finance Co.             30.00                7.59
1505      1977  Republic of Ttinisia             Small-Scale Industrial Project   5.00                   4.20
1601      1978  Republic of Tunisia              Rural Roads (Third Highways)        32.00              31.514
1675      1979  Republic of Tunisia              Second Urban Sewerage               26.50              26.40
1702     1979  Societe Nationale                 Fifth Water Supply                  25.00              19.92
d'Exploitation d'Eau
1705      1979  Republic of Tunisia              Second Urban Development            19.00              19.00
1746      1979  Republic of Tunisia              Second Fislheries                   28.50              28.15
1796      1980  Republic ot Tunisia              Southern Irrigation                 25.00              24.84
L797     1980  Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                              42.50               35.98
l841     1980  Republic of Tunisia              Fourth Highways                      3o.50              36.50
1864a/   1980  Societe Ttunisienne de            Second Natural Gas Pipeline         37.00              37.00
l'Electricite et du Gaz
1885 a/  1980  Banquie Nationale de Tunisie  Third Agricultural Credit               30.00              30.00
TOTAL                                                              739.56   70.07   399.37
Of which has been repaid                                            73.46    5.13
Total now outstanding                                              666.10   64.94
Amou,nt Sold                             14.41
of which has been repaid                10.13                       4.28
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/                                  661.82   64.94
Total Undisbursed                                                  397.11    2.26   399.37
a/ Not yet effective
b/ Prior to exchange adjustment



- 27 -                                         ANNEX 11
Page 2 or 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as ot December 31, 1980)
Amount in Ub$ Million
Year        Obligator                                 Type ot Business              Loan   Equity   'lotal
19h:       NPK EnKrais                                Fertilizers                   2,0       1.5      3.5
19h6       hociete Nattion,l Id' Inve stisiement   Development Finance Co.                   U,6      U,v
1969       COF Il ( olr Ism M                         De velopme nt Finaice Co.    8.U        2 .     IU. 21
1970       Societe Nationale d'lnvestissement
(SNI) now BDEl                           Development Finance to.                 0.b      U.b
1973       Societe Touristiquie & Hoteliere
RYM SA                                    Tourism                       1.6      0.3      1.9
1975       Societe O'Etudes & de Developpement
de Sotisse-Noro                           Tourism                       2.5      U.7      3.1
1974       Industries Chimiques du Fluor              Clhemicals                             U.6      0.7
1978       BDE'U                                      Development Finance Co.                 1.3      1.3
Total Cross Commitments                                                 14.1      7.8    21.9
Less cancellations, terminatiolns,
repayments and sales                                                    6.7      1.9      8.b
Total commitments now held by IFC                                        7.4      5.9    13.3
Total undishursed                                                                 ().b     tJ.b



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:        Population Project; US$4.8 million credit ot April 5, 1971;
Date of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date:
(Original) June 30, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1981.
Cr. 238-1:      Population Project:  US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit
(NORAD grant) of October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: (Original) December 31, 1979;
(Current) December 31, 1981.
After many delays, construction of the maternity hospitals in
Sousse, Tunis and Sfax is completed.  These facilities are expected to be
staffed and fully operational by mid-1981.  The construction of the fourth
hospital at Bizerte is likely to be completed by end 1981. Twenty-five of
the 29 maternal and child health/family planning centers have been com-
pleted; three are expected to be completed by mid-1981. One center (La
Hafsia) has been deleted from the project because the Government has been
unable to obtain a suitable site.
Ln. 858:        Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan of
September 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: (Original) December 31, 1977; (Current)
December 31, 1980.
The project is in its final implementation stage. The remaining
minor works are expected to be completed by April 1981. Disbursements are
being made only on commitments prior to December 31, 1980.
Ln. 937:        Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project;
Cr. 432:       US$11 million loan and US$7 million credit, both of
October 5, 1973; Date of Effecriveness; September 24, 1974;
Closing Date: (Original) December 31, 1976; (Current)
December 31, 1981.
The project has been completed except for construction of a bus
depot which is expected to be ready by October 1981. The project helped
establish and strengthen the Tunis District, the first regional planning
authority in Tunisia. Work carried out by the District in the housing and
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



29 _                          ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
transport sectors has been instrumental in bringing about substantial
changes in public programs and policies, such as the adoption of measures to
encourage the use of buses and restrain the use of private cars. The
project also assisted the public transport company Societe Nationale des
Transport (SNT) in renewing its bus fleet and railway rolling stock, improv-
ing its organization and finance, and upgrading the maintenance of its
vehicles with the construction of a new bus depot. In parallel, the city of
Tunis adopted a new traffic plan with a one-way street system, reserved bus
lanes and restricted parking zones, which contributed substantially to the
improvement of bus services in Greater Tunis. This, combined with an
increase in the SNT bus fleet, and improved bus maintenance has led to an
increase in the use of SNT transport facilities by about 27 percent above
the level which would have been achieved in the absence of the project.
Ln. 1029:       Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
(Original) October 31, 1978; (Current) December 31, 1980.
The hotel schools at Hammamet and Sousse Nord are now operational.
The training curricula have been introduced in September 1979 and extended
to all training schools in the country. Procurement of minor equipment and
furniture items will be completed by end March 1981. Disbursements are
being made only on commitments prior to December 31, 1980.
Ln. 1042:       Gafsa Phosphate Project; US$23.3 million loan of October 1,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date:
(Original) June 30, 1979; (Current) December 31, 1981.
Underground mining operations using the longwall method were
intended to supply phosphate rock to the Sehib washing plant which was
commissioned at the end of 1979. Following the initial failure of the
mining tests to reach satisfactory production levels, the company hired
experienced consultants whose services are financed by the Bank loan. The
services include: (i) 6 months' technical assistance in further testing the
longwall method, (ii) a feasibility study on open pit mining of an alterna-
tive deposit from which the supply of rock to the washing plant could be
supplemented, and (iii) the design and implementation of an improved cost
control system. The longwall test has not achieved a continuous good
performance. The first phase of the open pit feasibility study is
completed. The second phase will be started after completion of additional
geological and beneficiation work. Cost control in the company is still
inadequate.



_ 30 _
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Ln. 1068;       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18,
1975; Closing Date: (Original) December 30, 1981; (Current)
June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation works in the Medjerda
sub-project area continues to be satisfactory, except for the marketing
center in Nebhana for which bids are called again, and for water supply to
farmers on which a common decision is expected by SONEDE and OMVVM, regard-
ing the farmers' contribution to the investment costs. Land reform is
progressing slowly, especially in the Medjerda area. In Nebhana, the land
consolidation program is developing well and farmers have been settled on
nearly 60 percent of the total area. OMVVM continues to encourage large
owners to improve cultivation of land and marked progress has been reported
in the distribution of medium and short-term credit. Progress in construc-
tion and rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage and road networks continues
to be satisfactory.
Ln. 1088:       First Urban Sewerage Project:  US$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date: (Original) December 15, 1979; (Current) December 15,
1981.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number of
factors, some beyond the control of the project entity, ONAS. As a result,
considerable cost escalation occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, all components of the project are now under construction and
project completion is expected by mid-1982. One of its major benefits will
be release of land for development around the Lake of Tunis, which until now
has been impossible because of the pollution of the lake waters by
untreated sewage. Consultants financed under the project have produced a
land-use plan for the area, and acquisition of the land by Government is in
progress.
Ln. 1155:       Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
(Original) June 30, 1980; (Amended Project) March 31, 1983
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assis-
tance. The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million
and the Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, rep-
resenting the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project. Imple-
mentation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily; designs for the
extension of the five teacher training colleges have been approved and
invitations for local bidding are scheduled for April 1981. Equipment
procurement for the teachers' colleges and the ITM centers is proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 31 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date:
(Original) December 31, 1979; (Current) December 31, 1982.
Civil works of Lots 9 and 10 of the Tunis-Bizerte highway have been
completed. Construction is in progress on Lot 6 in Nabeul. Construction
works of Lots 5, 7 and 11 have started. The local financing issue has been
discussed with the Ministries of Public Works and of Planning and Finance,
and a satisfactory physical and financial execution plan now exists for the
remaining items, except for Lot 8 on which there is a difficult probletn of
expropriation which may result in deleting this element from the project.
The final report of the transport coordination study has been completed.
The Government is now reviewing the consultants recommendations, and has
agreed to set up a transport planning unit.
Ln. 1189:       Sixth Development Finance Company Project;  US$20 million
loan of January 26, 1976; Date of Eftectiveness: June 7,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
BDET has shown consistent improvements over the past three years in
the key areas of management effectiveness, arrears recovery, financial
practices and resource mobilization. The institution plays an increasingly
important role in financing industrial development, extending about
one-third of all term credit available to the industrial sector in Tunisia.
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
November 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
About 75 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and more than 100
percent is committed; amounts in excess will have to be financed from the
Third Agricultural Credit project. Disbursements in Categories 1, 2 and 4 -
subloans to small and medium farmers, commercial farmers and agro-industrial
investors - are progressing rapidly. They will commence shortly in Category
3, subloans to farmers' associations for the establishment of date palm
plantations, after BNT and Government have approved six subprojects. The
present Closing Date of June 30, 1981 may have to be extended to December
31, 1981.
Ln. 1355:       Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The Project has been completed and the seven gas-turbines
have been commissioned. Measures are being taken to overcome difficulties
in operating the turbines, which have arisen due to excessive use and lack
of spare parts. The energy pricing study has been extended in scope to
include an overall assessment of the country's energy resources and is now
expected to be completed by the end of 1981.



- 32 -                          ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. 1431:       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation con-
tinues to be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is expected to be completed on schedule. The
new railroad, including superstructure, is now completed and will soon be
operational. Construction of the Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal,
which started one year behind schedule, is proceeding slowly due to some
extent to the force account method of construction adopted, and to manage-
ment difficulties resulting from conceptual differences in methods of
construction between the Tunisian and Chinese workers, and lack of expe-
rience in using modern technology and modern equipment for tunneling and
canal lining.
Ln. 1445;       Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The procurement process under the fourth project is now completed.
Project execution has accelerated during the last six months and the proj-
ect is now expected to be completed by end 1982, about six months behind the
appraisal schedule. Having increased the average water rates in 1979 by
about 44 percent, the borrower's financial situation is expected to remain
satisfactory for the next two years.
Ln. 1504/1505:  Industrial Finance Project consisting of Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economigue de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The $5 million pilot loan is fully committed; the $28 million com-
ponent to BDET is also fully committed, and the $2 million allowed for the
financing of SSI extension is half committed. Disbursements are in line
with appraisal estimates. Under the project, BDET is giving priority in its
financing to projects which are located in the least developed regions,
sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high labor intensity or
export-orientation. Under the SSI pilot project, the commercial banks'
initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing has been over-
come. Considerable progress has been made by the Tunisian authorities
toward setting up a network of Tunisian and foreign technical assistance
experts, specifically catering to the needs of SSI, as agreed under the
project.
Ln 1601:        Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the provinces to be
covered under the project. The Government wishes to accelerate implementa-
tion so as to complete construction works by end-1982. Progress on



_33 _
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
the complementary agricultural component, after an initial delay, is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln 1675;        Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date; December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is proceed-
ing. Tenders have been called for the first civil works, and construction
has started.
Ln 1702:        Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness; October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule. SONEDE has already approved eight urban and
seventeen rural sub-projects for a total investment cost of $28.5 million.
Procurement is expected to be completed by June 1981.
Ln. 1705:       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Staffing of the project units and preparation of tender documLents
are progressing satisfactorily. Civil works have started on two Tunis sites
and one Sfax site and service areas. All technical work on the civil works
component is progressing well.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
All contracts for port infrastructure have been awarded. Detailed
design for the boats has been delayed due to delays in contract finalization
with the consultants. Tender documents for procurement of hulls will
therefore not be available before March 1981. Engines are being procured
under ICB; analysis of bids is still in progress.
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date; June 30, 1986.
The implementation of the project is proceeding according to
schedule. A contract has been awarded for the sinking of the first 13 deep
wells of the project. Bidding documents and bids have been reviewed by the
Bank for procurement of asbestos-cement pipes.



- 34 -                        ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985.
The loan agreement has been amended to reflect changes in OPNT's
financing plan. The main changes are: (i) the reduction in the amount to
be financed by export credits from $20.3 million to $7 million, and (ii) the
percentage of expenditures to be financed by the Bank; i.e. 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 6 percent of local expenditures instead of 48
percent of total expenditures. The contracts for civil works construction
have been awarded. Work has now commenced at La Goulette after delays in
agreement on an acceptable location of a site for depositing material to be
dredged from the project area. No work has yet commenced at Sfax due to
delays in moving the Chantiers Navals from their present location to the new
fishing harbor nearby, and checking of final design. Consultants to
supervise the works at Sfax have been appointed.
Ln. 1841:       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan ot May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
All the elements of the 1981 program for rehabilitation and
maintenance have now been received and reviewed.
Ln. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980; Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 22,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The original project scope has been modified because of
uncertainties related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project is
being redesigned to utilize royalty gas as a substitute to premium liquid
fuel products.
Ln. 1885;       Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of BNT's agricultural three-year
lending program for medium- and long-term credit to small and medium
farmers, production and service cooperatives, commercial farmers and
agroindustries. The loan is not yet effective pending ratification of the
Guarantee Agreement, signature of an agreement between BNT and the Ministry
of Planning and Finance, and receipt of the legal opinions.



_ 35 _                          ANNEX III
Page 1 ot 2
TUNISIA
SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            About 12 months (from March 1979
to March 1980)
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:          Ministries of Planning and
Finance and of National Economy;
Central Bank
(c)  Project first identified by Bank:         March 1979
(d) First Bank mission to review
project;                                  December 3, 1979
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:           March 24, 1980
(f)  Completion of negotiations:               March 6, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness;            End of August 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
The Bank to review, through annual consultations with the Govern-
ment, the adequacy of existing and any new policy measures for SSI develop-
ment, the first of such reviews to take place not later than six months
after loan effectiveness (para. 51).
Section III: Special Conditions
1.       Special conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  Signature and ratification of a financing agreement between the
Government, the Central Bank, API, BDET and at least two commercial
banks (para. 47); and
(b) Opening, by the Central Bank, of a project account (para. 53).
2.       Other special conditions:
(a) Government and API to select subprojects for financing under the
proposed Line of Credit in accordance with agreed selection
criteria (paras. 41, 43 and 47).



- 36 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2 ot 2
(b) Government and the Central Bank to ensure that at least (i) half of
the proposed Line of Credit be utilized for subprojects with up to
D 250,000 investment cost; and (ii) one third for subprojects
eligible for FOPRODI assistance (para. 41).
(c) The Government and the Central Bank to ensure that subloans are
made at least at the same interest rate as other rediscountable
medium-term loans to industry, at terms appropriate for the nature
of the subprojects (para. 44).
(d) The Government to bear half of the default risk on non-FOPRODI
subprojects and two-thirds on FOPRODI subprojects (para. 46).
(e) The Government and the Central Bank to ensure that the Central Bank
will administer the proposed Line of Credit on behalf of the
Government and monitor the collection on subloans (paras. 53
and 54).
(f) The Government to provide sufticient financial support to API to
permit the Agency to carry out its annual work programs (para. 50).



