OFIIA,LOAN NUMBER 1969 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Small Scale Industry Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1969 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        7                    , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (hereinafte   called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SSI Enterprise" means a small-scale industrial enter-
prise to which any of the Participating Banks on behalf of the
Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.
(b) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
under Section 3.01 (a) (i) of this Agreement by any of the Par-
ticipating Banks out of the proceeds of the Loan to an SSI Enter-
rzise for an SSI Investment Project; and "free-limit Sub-loan"
means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(c) "SSI Investment Project" means a specific development
project in the small scale industry sector to be carried out by
an SSI Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan and which
shall meet the selection criteria set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(d) "Dinars" and "D" mean the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-2-
(e) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
(f) "BCT" means Bngnue Centrale de Tunisie.
(g) "BDET" means Banque de Developpement Economique de
Tunisie.
(h) "Participating Banks" means BDET and any commercial
bank party to the Financing Agreement.
(i) "API" means Agence de Promotion des Investissements, an
agency of the Borrower operating under the supervision of the
Ministry of National Economy of the Borrower.
(j) "FOPRODI" means the Fonds de Promotion et de Decentra-
lisation Industrielle, a,fund financed out of the Borrower's
budget established and operating under the Borrower's Laws for
the purpose of providing credit to promoters of SSI Investment
Projects with limited personal assets.
(k) "Project Account" means the account to be opened by the
Borrower with BCT as provided in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agree-
ment for the purpose of making available the proceeds of the Loan
to the Participating Banks for Sub-Loans.
(1) "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be con-
cluded pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement between
the Borrower, BCT, API, BDET and selected commercial banks.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.020 (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of:
(i) withdrawals made by an SSI Enterprise under a
Sub-loan to meet 50% of the reasonable total cost


﻿- 3 -
of goods, works and services required for an SSI
Investment Project in respect of which the with-
drawal from the Loan Account is requested; pro-
vided, however, that, except as the Borrower and
the Bank may otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made:
(A) in respect of a Sub-loan unless (1) the
Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank,
or (2) the Sub-loan shall be a free-limit
Sub-loan for which the Bank shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account;
(B) in excess of an aggregate amount of the
equivalent of $14,675,000 for SSI Investment
Projects with an investment cost exceeding
D 250,000;
(C) in excess of an aggregate amount of the
equivalent of $19,350,000 for SSI Investment
Projects other than those benefitting from the
financial assistance of FOPRODI; and
(ii)   the reasonable foreign currency cost of services
required for the provision of assistance to API
pursuant to paragraph (a) (iii) of Section 3.01
of this Agreement; provided, however, that: (A)
except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the aggre-
gate amount of such withdrawals shall not exceed
$650,000 equivalent; (B) if the Borrower shall
have established to the satisfaction of the Bank
that funds from alternative sources are available
to the Borrower for the financing of the cost of
said services, the entire amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provision of paragraph (i) above.
(b) Except as the Bank may from time to time otherwise
determine, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan to an SSI
Enterprise in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan which shall not exceed the sum of D 125,000 equivalent, when
added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for Sub-loans to such SSI
Enterprise; provided, however, that the first two Sub-loans to
be made by any Participating Bank shall not qualify as free-limit
Sub-loans irrespective of the amount thereof.


﻿-4-
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of: (i) expendi-
tures before the date of this Agreement, or (ii) expenditures by
an SSI Investment Enterprise in respect of a Sub-loan subject to
the Bank's approval if such expenditures shall have been made more
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received in respect of such Sub-loan the application and informa-
tion required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect
of a free-limit Sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such free-
limit Sub-loan the request and information required by Section
2.03 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than
a free-limit Sub--loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to
the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the SSI Investment
Enterprise and an appraisal of the SSI Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the SSI
Investment Enterprise and the SSI Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before June 30, 1984.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to Sub-loans which have
been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account
under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take into account
any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions
and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section 2.09 of this
Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made on
January 1 and July 1 in each year. Such amendments of said
Schedule 1 shall include amendments to the table of premiums on
prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the
Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i) shall not extend
beyond thirteen years from the date of approval by the Bank of
such Sub-loan, or in the case of a free-limit Sub-loan, of
authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect thereof; and (ii) shall provide for approxi-
mately equal semiannual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of
principal and interest or approximately equal semiannual, or more
frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the
Borrower in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or any part
thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed
of 'or value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly notify


﻿-6-
the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under
Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loan or part thereof and not
theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or
maturities of the Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
Section 2.10. BCT is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Sections 2.02 and
2.03 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in providing financial and other assistance to such
productive facilities and resources in Tunisia as will contribute
to the development of small scale industrial enterprises and to
the economic and social development of the country.   The Project
consists of:
(i) the financing of the cost of SSI Investment
Projects through Sub-loans to SSI Enterprises in
Tunisia through Participating Banks;
(ii) the provision of technical assistance by API, and
such other promotional and advisory entities
as may be selected for the purpose by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank, to small scale
industrial enterprises to strengthen their manage-
ment capabilities in the fields of, inter alia,
production marketing and finance; and


﻿-7-
(iii) the provision of assistance to API in the evalua-
tion of the economic, financial and technical
viability of SSI Investment Projects.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and cause the
Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, banking and financial
practices and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall open and maintain an account with BCT
for the purpose, inter alia, of making available proceeds of the
Loan to Participating Banks for the Sub-loans.
(d) The Borrower shall enter into a financing agreement with
BCT, API, BDET and such selected commercial banks in Tunisia as
may from time to time accede to such agreement, said agreement to
be at all times satisfactory to the Bank and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, to include, inter alia, the requirements
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Financing
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in providing to
API the assistance referred to in paragraph (a) (iii) of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, not later than nine
months of the date of this Agreement, employ or cause API to
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms
whereby the Participating Bank shall obtain, by written contract
with the SSI Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower
and the Participating Bank, including the right of the Borrower
and the Participating Bank to: (i) require the SSI Enterprise to
carry out and operate the SSI Investment Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate


﻿-8-
records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods, works and services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured
at a reasonable price, after having obtained, in the case of
goods (other than those financed to satisfy the permanent working
capital requirements of an SSI Enterprise) or works, price
quotations from at least three suppliers or contractors (except
in exceptional circumstances for which justification will be
provided) and account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the
goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts
therefor, and, in the case of works or services, their quality and
the competence of the parties carrying out the works or rendering
the services, and (2) such goods, works and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the SSI Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the SSI Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (iv) require that: (1) the SSI Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice, and (2) without any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the SSI Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v)
obtain all such information as the Borrower, the Bank or the
Participating Bank shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the SSI Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived
from the SSI Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the
right of the SSI Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan
upon failure by such SSI Enterprise to perform its obligations
under its contract with the Participating Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights, directly or
through the Participating Bank, in relation to each SSI Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Bank and the Participating Banks, (ii) comply
with its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish annually to the
Bank for its review and comments the programs for the technical


﻿- 9 -
assistance referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 3.01 of
this Agreement as well as the proposed plans of action for the
carrying out of such programs.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b) of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause said
programs to be duly implemented and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank at regular intervals all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the SSI Investment
Enterprises, the SSI Investment Projects, the Sub-loans and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the foregoing; it
being understood that such information to be furnished to the
Bank at regular intervals shall include, inter alia, an annual
supervision report to be prepared by API, in accordance with
a format acceptable to the Bank, describing the SSI Investment
Projects for which Sub-loans were made during the year concerned
and showing the sub-sector, regional and enterprise size trends
for the respective types of small scale industrial activities
during such year and a forecast of such activities for the coming
year.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish or cause to
be prepared or furnished to the Bank a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project and the Sub-loans,
their costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from them,
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds, within the framework
of SSI Investment Projects, have been lent or otherwise put at the
disposal of the Participating Banks by the Borrower for relending,
investment or management. The Borrower shall promptly inform the
Bank of any action which would have the effect of assigning, or of
amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision of, any
such agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with


﻿- 11 -
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine the
records referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the
Project Account, and any relevant documents.
Section 4.03. Not later than six months after the Effective
Date, and thereafter annually, the Bocrower shall exchange views
with the Bank in respect of the Borrower's policies for the
development of the small scale industrial enterprise sector
in Tunisia. Such exchange of views shall extend to, inter alia,
existing measures to implement said policies and their impact on
said sector, as well as proposed measures for the development of
the said sector such as the introduction of specific investment
incentives, of a guarantee fund for credits to small scale enter-
prises and of other measures in respect of lending to small scale
enterprises.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution, or for the
suspension of the operations, of BCT, FOPRODI or API;
(b) any action shall have been taken for the dissolution or
liquidation of any of the Participating Banks, which would as a
consequence materially and adversely affect the carrying out of
the Project or the performance by the Borrower of its obligations
under this Agreement;
(c) any of the parties to the Financing Agreement shall have
failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation thereunder
and such failure would materially and adversely affect the carry-
ing out of the Project or the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under this Agreement; and


﻿- 12 -
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the parties to the Financing Agreement
will be able to perform their obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the parties referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement,
including at least three Participating Banks including Banque de
Developpement Economique de Tunisie; and
(b) the Project Account has been opened.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Financing Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon,
the parties thereto.
Section 6.03. The date                    / l  /7  , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre du Plan et des Finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan et des Finances
7, Place Ali Zouaoui
Tunis
Tunisia
Cable address:                      Telex:
Ministere du Plan                  MIPLAN
et des Finances               12117 TUN
Tunis
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective nawes in the


﻿- 14 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President·
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Dayment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)**
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1985                   1,200,000
through January 1, 1997
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable
in a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             1.80%
before maturity
More than three years but not                         3.60%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                           6.60%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                        8.40%
more than fourteen years
before maturity
More than fourteen years                              9.60%
before maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Selection criteria of SSI Investment Projects;
Responsibilities and procedures in respect of, and
terms and conditions of, Sub-loans
Selection criteria of SSI Investment Projects
1.   (a) SSI Investment Projects shall meet the following
criteria:
(i) the total estimated cost of an SSI Investment
Project shall not exceed D 500,000;
(ii) an SSI Investment Project shall be expected to
result in the creation or maintenance of employment
with an average investment cost per job created or
maintained not exceeding D 6,900, as such amount
may be adjusted every six months, on the basis of
increases in the wholesale price index for indus-
trial products published by the Borrower, to take
account of inflation as it affects the cost of
imported goods; and
(iii) all SSI Investment Projects must be expected to
yield a reasonable internal financial rate of
return (at least 10%) during the life of the
respective Sub-loan.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) (i) above, the cost of
an SSI Investment Project shall be determined as the
value of fixed assets, including land and buildings, to
be acquired and of relating initial permanent working
capital requirements; provided, however, that in the
case of expansion or modernization of an existing SSI
Enterprise, such cost shall be the aggregate of the
estimated value of existing fixed assets net of depre-
ciation, and of the new assets to be acquired under the
SSI Investment Project and of the additional permanent
working capital requirements.
(c) For the purposes of paragraph (a) (ii) above, the cost
per job resulting from an SSI Investment Project shall
be calculated as follows:


﻿- 18 -
(i) in the case of the creation of a new enterprise or
expansion of existing facilities and equipment, by
dividing the cost of the SSI Investment Project,
such cost to be determined as the value of fixed
assets, including buildings but excluding land, to
be acquired and of relating initial permanent
working capital requirements, by the total number
of employees for whom jobs would be created;
and
(ii) in the case of the modernization of existing SSI
Enterprises, by dividing the cost of the SSI
Investment Project, such cost to be determined as
the aggregate of the estimated value of existing
fixed assets net of depreciation and of the new
assets to be acquired under the SSI Investment
Project and of the additional permanent working
capital requirements, by the number of employees
for whom jobs would be created or maintained.
Responsibilities of BCT, API and the Participating Banks in the
processing of Sub-loans
2.   Identification, initial screening and appraisal of eligible
SSI Investment Projects shall be the responsibility of the
Participating Banks. Sub-loan applications shall be prepared by
Participating Banks in the case of SSI Investment Projects which
Participating Banks shall have decided to finance and shall
specify such intent. Sub-loan applications shall be prepared in
several copies and be furnished to API. The Participating Banks
shall prepare an appraisal report in a form acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank to accompany each Sub-loan application. Such
appraisal report shall specify, inter alia:
(a) the name of the SSI Enterprise, the industrial sub-
sector to which the SSI Investment Project belongs,
its location, as well as appropriate information
concerning the promoter;
(b) the number of jobs to be created and/or to be main-
tained;
(c) the total estimated cost of the SSI Investment Project,
including working capital requirements;


﻿- 19 -
(d) a description of the technological processes to be used
and a summary list of goods and services to be procured
for the SSI Investment Project including in particular
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan;
(e) a breakdown of the foreign exchange and local components
of the cost of each SSI Investment Project;
(f) a discussion of the marketing aspects of the project,
including a supply and demand analysis, price forecasts
and distribution channels;
(g) the internal financial rate of return of the SSI Invest-
ment Project;
(h) the level of the tariff duty for imported products
competing with the goods to be produced by the SSI
Enterprise; the domestic price/C.I.F. price ratio for
such products; and any Government subsidization of
production inputs, sale prices, and interest rates,
together with relevant documentation;
(i) the value added per job created (or maintained in case
of modernization sub-projects) and, if it is low com-
pared to the investment cost per job and sub-sectoral
standards, explanations therefor;
(j) the amount, terms and conditions (including the amorti-
zation schedule) of the Sub-loan and of the other
sources of financing; and
(k) the technical assistance needs, if any, of the SSI
Investment Project and the most appropriate ways to
meet them.
3.   The financing plan for an SSI Investment Project shall follow
the following proportions in percentage of estimated total invest-
ment cost, including working capital:
(a) equity (part of which may be financed out of the FOPRODI
credit facility) shall not be less than 30%;
(b) the Sub-loan shall not exceed 50%; and


﻿- 20 -
(c) not less than 20% shall be financed by a term loan
extended by the Participating Bank sponsoring the SSI
Investment Project out of its own resources.
4.   The appraisal report referred to in paragraph 2 of this
Schedule shall be sent by the Participating Bank sponsoring the
SSI Investment Project to API for its review. In carrying out
this review, API will assess the economic, financial and tech-
nical viability of the SSI Investment Project and verify whether
it satisfies the selection criteria set forth in paragraph 1
above. In respect of SSI Investment Projects whose cost, as
defined under paragraph 1 (b) above, shall exceed D 250,000, API
shall, in all cases where the rate of protection applicable to the
products of the SSI Enterprise shall exceed 30%, compute a modi-
fied internal financial rate of return by modifying the computa-
tion used for purposes of paragraph 1 (a) (iii) above by substitu-
ting C.I.F. prices of imported products competing on the domestic
market with the products sold by the SSI Enterprise for the
domestic sale price of such products and by reducing the relating
labor cost by 25%. When such modified internal financial rate of
return shall be less than 10%, API shall duly assess the justifi-
cation of the SSI Investment Project in this light. In each case,
API will prepare a summary report describing the above assessment
and verification and providing for its recommendations in respect
of the SSI Investment Project. API shall also assess the needs for
technical assistance, if any, and include in the above summary
report appropriate recommendations to meet such needs. If API
shall, on the basis of said review, be satisfied that the SSI
Investment Project meets the selection criteria set forth in
paragraph 1 above an is economically, financially and technically
viable, API shall send the Sub-loan application to BCT, together
with the related appraisal report and API's summary report
referred to above.
5.   BCT shall perform the following functions upon receipt of
a Sub-loan application:
(a) forward or cause to be forwarded to the Bank, on behalf
of the Borrower, applications and requests to be made
pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 2.03 of
the Loan Agreement;
(b) forward to the Bank, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
drawal applications from the Loan Account; and


﻿- 21 -
(c) maintain the necessary documentation available for
examination by Bank supervision missions.
6.   Withdrawals in respect of Sub-loans which shall have been
approved by the Bank or for which authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account has been given by the Bank shall be
made by the Participating Banks from the Project Account.    Such
Account shall be credited, from time to time, with proceeds from
the Loan Account, pursuant to witidrawals made by BCT.
Terms and conditions of Sub-loans (additional to the terms set
forth in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement)
7.   Sub-loans shall carry interest on the principal outstanding
from time to time at an annual rate at least equal to the interest
rate charged by Tunisian commercial banks on medium-term loans,
which are rediscountable at the ordinary rate, to industrial
enterprises at the time of granting the Sub-loan.
8.   The amortization schedule for each Sub-loan shall provide for
an appropriate grace period of not more than three years and shall
take into account the economic life of the investment as well as
the projected capacity of the SSI Enterprise to reimburse the
Sub-loan but shall not exceed thirteen years, including the
grace period.
Debt-service and risk-sharing arrangements
9.   The SSI Enterprise's obligations on account of payment of
principal, interest and other charges'in respect of the Sub-loans
shall be toward the Borrower but the responsibility of collecting
such payments shall remain with the Participating Bank sponsoring
the SSI Investment Project. Participating Banks shall ensure that
such payments are made upon maturity and shall immediately
thereafter forward such payments to the Project Account.
10. Losses on both Sub-loan and term loan made by the Partici-
pating Bank sponsoring an SSI Investment Project out of its own
resources shall, to the extent that all legal remedies have been
exhausted, be shared: (a) 2/3-1/3 between the Borrower and the
Participating Bank, respectively, in the case of SSI Investment
Projects benefitting from FOPRODI financial assistance; and (b)
evenly between the Borrower and the Participating Bank in other
cases.


﻿- 22 -
Special incentive to Participating Banks
11. A mechanism to be determined by agreement between the Bor-
rower and the Bank shall be introduced and implemented by BCT
whereby each Sub-loan made by a Participating Bank will entail an
increase in such Participating Bank's share in the ordinary.
rediscount quota.
Remuneration of the Participating Banks
12. The Participating Banks will obtain from the Borrower a
remuneration for their services in managing the Sub-loans financed
out of the Loan proceeds consisting of commissions providing an
incentive to use the proceeds of the Loan including: (a) a one-
time commission amounting to three percent of disbursements under
Sub-loans committed during the first year following the Effective
Date, and two percent of disbursements under Sub-loans committed
thereafter; and (b) a one-time commission amounting to seven
percent of the principal amount effectively collected from SSI
Investment Enterprises under Sub-loans in the case of full collec-
tion, declining progressively to one percent in the case of less
than 50% collection. The incentive resulting from this commission
or these commissions shall not be less than the one resulting from
the arrangements for the remuneration of the Participating Banks
under the existing FOPRODI credit facilities.
.  ... .. ..


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.04:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.04."
(2) The words "or SSI Investment Projects" are added after
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If: (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) at any time the Bank determines, after consultation
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be
required to finance the Project's costs to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) after the Closing Date an
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
Account, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the
right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests
or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may
be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /5IL     day of -  a   , 198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


