Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6490 
Project Name 
Bangladesh: Repatriation and Livelihood Restoration for Migrant 
Workers 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID 
P126263 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Bangladesh 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
March 18, 2011 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 28, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 26, 2011 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Libya has been a host-country for many migrant workers from South Asia, East Asia, Sub-
Saharan Africa, and other countries in the Middle East and North Africa. Since the violence 
broke out in Libya mid-February 2011, close to 400,000 foreign workers have fled the country 
(as of April 13, 2011), many of them without the means to return to their home countries by 
themselves. The lack of facilities at border camps and worsening overcrowding has created a 
very serious situation requiring humanitarian support by the international community. About 
34,000 Bangladeshi migrant workers have returned to Bangladesh as of April 18, 2011. 
 
The crisis also presents a significant shock to the income flow of Bangladeshi migrants in 
particular. According to various reports, the number of Bangladeshis who worked in Libya prior 
to the crisis is somewhere between 70,000 to 80,000 workers. While on average the impact of 
this crisis on the total flow of remittances is not substantial, it presents a significant shock to the 
income of the migrants and their families. For those who have only recently migrated, this crisis 
is threatening livelihoods not only because of the loss of income, but also because of the 
potential increase in debts as the situation renders them unable to repay outstanding balances on 
the considerable debts they incurred in order to migrate.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed project would support the Government of Bangladesh to: (i) repatriate its migrant 
workers who have fled the ongoing conflict in Libya (“the emergency”), from camps in 
neighboring countries in a timely manner; and (ii) provide a one-time cash-grant to the returnees 
as a transitional safety net measure to help them meet immediate basic needs and commence the 
process of livelihood restoration. The expected outcomes of this project are: (i) the contribution 
to the successful repatriation of up to 30,000 migrant workers by the International Organization 
Page  2
for Migration (IOM); and (ii) the distribution of cash grants to up to 34,000 repatriated migrant 
workers (to include both IOM-assisted and non IOM-assisted returnees).  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
To achieve the project development objectives, the project is divided into two components: 
Component 1: 
Repatriation activities
 (airlift); Component 2: 
Transitional Assistance
,
consisting 
of a 
one-time cash-grant
,
following arrival in Bangladesh, as a short-term safety net measure to 
support initial livelihood restoration.  
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply   
 
None of the proposed activities will trigger any of the Bank’s safeguard policies. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
40.0 
 
Total 40.0 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Bernice K. Van Bronkhorst 
Title: Sr Urban Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-7877 
Fax: (202) 522-3713 
Email: bvanbronkhorst@worldbank.org
 
