Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC6214 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/26/2011 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Bangladesh 
Project ID: P126263 
Project Name: Bangladesh: Repatriation and Livelihood Restoration for Migrant Workers 
Task Team Leader: Bernice K. Van Bronkhorst 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date: April 26, 2011 
Managing Unit: SASDU 
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector: Other social services (100%) 
Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (50%);Social safety nets 
(50%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
40.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
1.Libya has been a host-country for many migrant workers from South Asia, East Asia, Sub-
Saharan Africa, and other countries in the Middle East and North Africa. Since the violence 
broke out in Libya mid-February 2011, close to 400,000 foreign workers have fled the country 
(as of April 13, 2011), many of them without the means to return to their home countries by 
themselves. The lack of facilities at border camps and worsening overcrowding has created a 
very serious situation requiring humanitarian support by the international community. The crisis 
also presents a significant shock to the income flow of Bangladeshi migrants in particular. 
According to various reports, the number of Bangladeshis who worked in Libya prior to the 
crisis is somewhere between 70,000 to 80,000 workers. While on average the impact of this 
crisis on the total flow of remittances is not substantial, it presents a significant shock to the 
income of the migrants and their families. For those who have only recently migrated, this crisis 
is threatening livelihoods not only because of the loss of income, but also because of the 
potential increase in debts as the situation renders them unable to repay outstanding balances on 
the considerable debts they incurred in order to migrate.  
 
2.
The proposed project would support the Government of Bangladesh to: (i) repatriate its 
migrant workers who have fled the ongoing conflict in Libya (-the emergency-), from camps in 
Page  2
neighboring countries in a timely manner; and (ii) provide a one-time cash-grant to the returnees 
as a transitional safety net measure to help them meet immediate basic needs and commence the 
process of livelihood restoration. The expected outcomes of this project are: (i) the contribution 
to the successful repatriation of up to 30,000 migrant workers by the International Organization 
for Migration (IOM); and (ii) the distribution of cash grants to up to 34,000 repatriated migrant 
workers (to include both IOM-assisted and non IOM-assisted returnees).   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
To achieve the project development objectives, the project is divided into two components: 
Component 1: Repatriation activities (airlift); Component 2: Transitional Assistance, consisting 
of a one-time cash-grant, following arrival in Bangladesh, as a short-term safety net measure to 
support initial livelihood restoration.  
 
Expected outcomes include: about 30,000 migrant workers safely repatriated to Bangladesh; the 
basic needs of up to 34,000 in the period immediately following repatriation have been met.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
As proposed, the operations will include urgent repatriation (airlift) of stranded Bangladeshi 
guest workers who have fled Libya and have taken refuge in Tunisia, Egypt. In addition the 
operation will include a one- time cash grant provision. The proposed airlift and cash grant 
activities under the proposed project intervention would not trigger any of the safeguards 
policies.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
The implementing agency for the repatriation and reintegration of migrant workers is the 
International Organization for Migration (IOM). IOM is responsible for the pre-departure, 
transport, and post-arrival handling. IOM uses appropriate screening mechanisms to ensure that 
all repatriation is done on a voluntary basis. The GoB plans to use IDA financing to cover parts 
of the expenses related to the airfare and for the full cash grant provision. Given the emergency 
and that the GoB will be reimbursed through retroactive financing from the proposed Emergency 
Recovery Credit, and to ensure continuation of IOM's already ongoing repatriation of the 
Bangladeshi migrant workers, there will be no direct supervision by Bank staff at the origin of 
the process. However to ensure that the repatriation of the migrant workers is in line with the 
Bank operational and especially safeguard policies, the Bank will adopt a three-pronged 
approach, namely: (i) to carry out a needs assessment by a social development specialist on the 
ground; (ii) to ensure that IOM's operating protocols are in line with the Bank's safeguards  
policies; and (iii) to conduct supervision of returnees arriving in Dhaka.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Teen Kari Barua (SASDU) 
Ms Sabah Moyeen (SASDS) 
Ms Nadia Sharmin (SASDI) 
 
Page  3
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage ISDS:  
03/23/2011 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
Mobilization of Needs Assessment consultant in MNA region is under way - but subject to 
security conditions on the ground.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Bernice K. Van Bronkhorst 
03/23/2011 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Sanjay Srivastava 
03/23/2011 
Comments:  Cleared. 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Ming Zhang 
03/23/2011 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  4
