                      Document of
                   The World Bank




                                          Report No: ICR2596



  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                   (IDA-49400)



                        ON A

      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 25.3 MILLION

         (US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                       TO THE

         PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                       FOR A


EMERGENCY REPATRIATION AND LIVELIHOOD RESTORATION OF

              MIGRANT WORKERS PROJECT



                    March 25, 2013




               Human Development Unit
                    Bangladesh
                     South Asia




                          1
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective January 10, 2013)

                           Currency Unit = Taka

                           US$ 1.00 = BDT 79.60

                              FISCAL YEAR

                            July 1   -       June 30




BMET      Bureau of Manpower Employment and Training
ERD       Economic Relations Division
EPP       Emergency Project Paper
ERL       Emergency Recovery Loan
FM        Financial Management
GoB       Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
IDA       International Development Association
IOM       International Organization for Migration
JSDF      Japanese Social Development Fund
MOEWOE    Ministry of Expatriates' Welfare and Overseas Employment
SAR       South Asia Region
SBL       Sonali Bank Limited




  Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero
  Country Director:          Salman Zaheer
  Sector Manager:            Pablo Gottret
  Project Team Leader:       Iffath Sharif
  ICR Team Leader:           Lorraine Blank




                                         2
                                                  BANGLADESH

                  Repatriation and Livelihood Restoration for Migrant Workers


                                                    CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 8
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 11
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 17
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
 Annex 1. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
 Annex 2 Project Costs and Financing. .......................................................................... 28
 Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 30
 Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 31
 Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
 Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ……………………………………………...36
 MAP




                                                             3
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Bangladesh:
                                                                          Repatriation and
Country:                Bangladesh              Project Name:
                                                                          Livelihood Restoration
                                                                          for Migrant Workers
Project ID:             P126263                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-49400
ICR Date:               03/13/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          THE PEOPLE’S
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF
                                                                          BANGLADESH
Original Total
                        XDR 25, 300,000         Disbursed Amount:         XDR 25, 297,077.57
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 25,297,077.57       Canceled Amount:          XDR 2,922.43
Environmental Category: Not required
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Expatriates' Welfare and Overseas Employment
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: not applicable

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/30/2011     Effectiveness:             06/15/2011        06/15/2011
Appraisal:            04/18/2011     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             04/26/2011     Mid-term Review:                             09/21/2011
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2012        06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory Government:        Highly Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:

                                                4
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                                  100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                    50                  50
Social safety nets                                                      50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                    Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:          Salman Zaheer                         Ellen A. Goldstein
Sector Manager:            Pablo Gottret                         Ming Zhang
Project Team Leader:       Iffath Anwar Sharif                   Bernice K. Van Bronkhorst
ICR Team Leader:           Iffath Anwar Sharif
ICR Primary Author:        Lorraine Blank


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective was to support the Borrower in: (i) the timely
repatriation of migrant workers, who have fled the ongoing conflict in Libya, from
refugee camps in neighboring countries; and (ii) the provision of a one-time cash grant as
a transitional safety net measure to help said workers meet immediate basic needs and
commence the process of livelihood restoration.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There were no revisions to the PDOs or key performance indicators during the life of the
project.

                                                 5
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                   Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                                    Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
        Indicator              Baseline Value
                                                      approval            Target         Completion or
                                                    documents)            Values         Target Years
1. Repatriated migrant
workers who arrived
                                   29,800               10,000              NA                13,484
safely at the airport in
Dhaka (total number)
Date Achieved                                                                               07/30/2011
                              Baseline = number already repatriated returnees who flights costs were to be
                              financed with retroactive financing.
                              Original target value was10,000 as specified by the Financing Agreement or
                              about 30% of 30,000 expected returnees as was specified in the Emergency
Comments (incl. %
                              Project Paper (EPP)
achievement)
                              Actual value achieved of 13,484 is the number of returnees for which the
                              International Organization for Migration was reimbursed. Actual value of the
                              total number of returnees repatriated however was 36,713.
                              Number of workers repatriated equal to 135% of Financing Agreement target
2. Repatriated migrant
workers who received the
onetime cash grant ( % of            none                   100%            NA                 99%
total number of repatriated
workers)
Date Achieved                                                                               05/22/2012
Comments (incl. %             Target was originally of 34,000 workers but 36,683 registered with IOM for
achievement)                  cash assistance, and 36,307 actually received the cash assistance.



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                   Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                    Values (from                           Achieved at
        Indicator              Baseline Value                         Revised
                                                      approval                            Completion or
                                                                   Target Values
                                                    documents)                            Target Years
Percent of repatriated
migrant workers who have             none                   100%                               100%
proof of photo ID
Date Achieved                                                                          05/03/2011

Comments (incl. %
                              100% of target achieved
achievement)
TV and newspaper                     Not             Numerous                          2 Newspaper, 2 TV, 2
advertisements have been           available      newspaper and TV                     radio, 6 SMS, leaflets

                                                        6
launched to inform about                          advertisements
cash grants and livelihood
activities
Comments (incl. %
                             Target achieved
achievement)
                                                                             System in place and
Cash transfer system                             System is in place
                                   None                                       operational during
established through banks                         and operational
                                                                                life of project
Date Achieved                                                                    10/26/2011
Comments (incl. %
                             Target achieved
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                                  DO                              IP     Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1      09/21/2011               Satisfactory                Satisfactory            27.41
  2      06/16/2012               Satisfactory                Satisfactory            40.01


H. Restructuring (if any)

The project was not restructured.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                                     7
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 Country background: At the time of appraisal, Bangladesh had a population of
150 million and a poverty headcount of 31.5 percent. Economic growth averaged 6.2
percent. Domestic consumption, largely driven by foreign remittances, accounted for 70
to 80 percent of growth. Migrant remittances accounted for 87 percent of the total
external inflows in FY 2011, a share that is much larger than that for LDCs as a group.1

1.1.2 The emergency context: Libya, which served as a host-country for migrant
workers, entered a period of civil conflict in February 2011. At the outbreak of the
conflict, there were approximately 63,000 Bangladeshis in Libya, mostly working as
unskilled and semi-skilled workers. Following the outbreak of violence, approximately
380,000 foreign workers from various countries fled to refugee camps along the Tunisian
and Egyptian borders. This presented a humanitarian crisis as conditions in camps were
increasingly difficult, with inadequate food and sanitation. Although, many countries
faced logistical difficulties in repatriating workers affected by the Libyan conflict, the
Government of Bangladesh (GoB) faced a particularly large number of workers to be
repatriated and with a high cost for long-haul flights. The crisis presented a significant
shock to Bangladeshi migrants and their families. The loss of income, which averaged
about US$3,690 per year, threatened to increase household debt as the situation
rendered families unable to repay their migration related debts which averaged roughly
US$3,150.2

1.1.3 Rationale for International Development Agency (hereafter referred to as the
Bank) involvement: When Bangladeshi workers fled to refugee camps, the International
Organization for Migration (IOM) and Biman Bangladesh Airlines (the national carrier)
responded by initiating airline flights to repatriate workers. At appraisal, close to 29,800
Bangladeshis had already been repatriated. Some repatriation had been carried out by
Biman, but the GoB was relying on IOM for most repatriation operations. 3 However,
the resources of GoB and IOM could not cover the costs of repatriating all affected
workers, and stakeholders looked to the Bank for assistance. The credit was intended to
reimburse IOM for repatriation costs already incurred, prevent disruption in future
repatriation activities, and provide a one-time cash grant to returnees as a transitional
safety net measure.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
1.2.1 The Project Development Objective was to support the Borrower in: (i) the
timely repatriation of migrant workers, who have fled the ongoing conflict in Libya,

1
  World Bank. 2012. “Bangladesh: Towards Accelerated, Inclusive and Sustainable Growth – Opportunities
and Challenges.? Bangladesh Development Series Report No. 67991.
2
  As reported in the Emergency Project Profile (EPP).
3
  Basic assistance on the ground (water, medical and vital services) was provided by United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees, International Federation of Red Cross and several NGOs.


                                                  8
from refugee camps in neighboring countries; and (ii) the provision of a one-time cash
grant as a transitional safety net measure to help said workers meet immediate basic
needs and commence the process of livelihood restoration.

1.2.2   The Project’s key performance indicators as approved were the following:

    1. Number of repatriated migrant workers who have arrived safely in Dhaka.
    2. Number of repatriated migrant workers who have received a cash grant.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

1.3.1   There were no revisions to the PDOs or key performance indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The Project’s primary target population was migrant workers fleeing the conflict
in Libya. A profile of returning workers is provided in Box 1. The indirect project
beneficiaries are the families of these workers. Therefore, the principal benefits of the
project, bringing workers back to Bangladesh safely and providing a transitional safety
net benefit, accrue to the repatriated workers and their families.

                               Box 1: A Profile of Returnees

Based on a sample of 7,234 returnees from Libya, the IOM reported that:
    99% were male
    70% were in the 26 – 40 year age cohort
    56% were married
    20% had no formal education; 17% had an incomplete primary education
    11% had completed secondary school; 4% had completed higher secondary
    Mean family size was 5.5 family members
    Reported average household income was US$129 per month
Source: IOM (2012) Repatriation and Reintegration of Bangladeshi Returnees from Libya, draft Final
Report, Dhaka.


1.5 Original Components

1.5.1   The project had two components:

Component 1: Repatriation of migrant workers to their home country (US$12.6
million IDA financing). This component was to finance the cost of airfare of conflict-
affected Bangladeshi workers to Bangladesh for an estimated 10,000 returning workers
(or 10 percent of 30,000 workers). At the time of appraisal, the activities in Component 1
had been essentially completed and the project was to provide retroactive financing for
component 1. See paragraph 2.2.3, below. A pre-departure phase was financed and
implemented by UNHCR/IOM and included identification of migrant workers from

                                                9
Bangladesh and evaluation of whether the workers wanted to repatriate. On-site
consular services had been organized by the IOM and GoB and emergency travel
documents issued for workers who had lost their travel documents. Upon arrival in
Bangladesh, the GoB had organized facilities at the airport to receive 7 to 8 additional
flights per day and process about 4,000 returnees; had organized bus transportation to the
central bus terminal for returnees; and had provided each returnee Taka 1,000 for
transportation to their home. GoB and IOM organized immediate medical care; food;
immigration support; and foreign exchange facilities at the airport.

Component 2: Transitional Assistance (US$26.5 million IDA financing). This
component was to finance a one-time cash grant of BDT 50,000 (approximately
US$775) to each returnee to an estimated 34,000 workers. The purpose of this
grant was to cover immediate basic needs and partial expenses associated with initial
restoration of livelihoods. Under this component, IOM was to establish a cash transfer
system, including a public information campaign; a payment system; a monitoring
system; and grievance and redress options.
1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1      The components were not revised.4

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1      NA.

1.7.2 Project Cost and Financing: The Emergency Project Paper (EPP) described a
US$74.1 million project with contributions from IDA, GoB and IOM (see Table 1).
Accounting has been for the US$40 million IDA credit as project targets are linked to the
IDA financing.5

    Table 1: Original Project costs in US$ million, and Financing Plan per Component

                                                                                            GoB/
                                                       Total        IDA         IOM         Biman
     Component 1: Repatriation Costs                   46.7         12.6         29.5        4.6
     Component 2: Reintegration Costs                   26.5        26.5
     Contingency                                         0.9         0.9
     TOTAL COST (US$ m)                                74.1         40.0         29.5        4.6
         Source: EPP. Report No: 60376-BD, IDA, April 19, 2011



4
  While the main text of the EPP included 2 components, the data sheet identified 3 components which
were originally included in the project concept note, as follows: 1) repatriation; 2) reintegration and
livelihood restoration c; and 3) labor market reinsertion of migrant workers at home and abroad. The
inclusion of the third component on the EPP data sheet was an error.
5
  Please see Annex I for further explanation


                                                  10
1.7.3 Reallocation of funds. The EPP reserved US$0.9 million as contingency for the
possibility that there would be a second wave of returnees. In December 2011, when it was
clear that there would not be a second wave, the GoB requested to use contingency funds
and the undisbursed amount for cash allowances to reimburse Biman for repatriation
expenses incurred by the heavily cash-strapped national airline. The Bank gave its no
objection and Biman was paid US$3.43 million, which was a combination of the funds
remaining in the contingency component and the unused amount left in Component 2.
Since the IOM contract already included the US$0.9 million contingency, the change
required an amendment to the IOM contract but did not change the overall contract
amount.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Fast-track emergency procedures. Bank Operational Policy 8.00 on Emergencies
was triggered and project preparation was accelerated using fast track emergency procedures.
The official request for assistance was received from the Government of Bangladesh on
March 9, 2011 and Board approval of the project was on April 26, 2011. To facilitate
rapid approval, the Bank TTL, Country Director, and Regional Vice President briefed the
Board on the proposed project design two weeks into project preparation and received the
“green light? to continue to explore 100 percent retroactive financing of repatriation costs
and direct contracting of IOM. A key factor in this extremely expedited preparation
process was that one co-TTL was Dhaka-based and the other two Washington-based.
This allowed work to proceed on an around-the-clock basis. It was a multi-sectoral team
consisting of the South Asia Sustainable Development and Human Development Units.

2.1.2 Lessons from other emergency projects. The design incorporated lessons from
other emergency projects as reflected in the emphasis on simplified objectives and clear
scope of activities. These lessons were also reflected in the procurement arrangement
which included one procurement activity only – a direct contract with IOM for the
implementation of all project activities.

2.1.3 Simplicity of project design. Taking into account the short time frame for
preparation, the project was well conceptualized. The Project Development Objectives
(PDOs) were clear, realistic and measurable, and focused on outcomes for which the
project could be held directly accountable. The strategic relevance and approach was
appropriate based on the nature of the emergency and the capacity of the GoB to respond
to the emergency. The implementing agency was the Bureau of Manpower, Employment
and Training (BMET) under the Ministry of Expatriates' Welfare and Overseas
Employment (MOEWOE). Given capacity constraints in MOWOE and BMET, the
project relied on IOM for implementation of all activities. Design of the cash grant
provided a lesson in compromise. The Bank and the Government initially disagreed on
the value of the cash grant benefit, with the Government wanting a considerably higher
benefit than the Bank, but in the end, both sides reached consensus which also reflected
the available resource envelop. Originally, there was also a third component for

                                            11
livelihoods restoration, but this component was eliminated at the project concept stage
due to concerns that these activities would necessarily mean a longer project period and
would complicate the project. In hindsight, eliminating this complex activity was a
sound design decision since funding decisions for this component were not under Bank
management control.6

2.1.4 Ownership and participation from the Government. The idea of Government
intervention to finance the repatriation and reintegration of migrant workers originated
with the GoB in consultation with the IOM. Responding to the emergency, the GoB
moved quickly to mobilize its national airline, Biman and the IOM to commence
repatriation activities. In collaboration with the IOM, the Government established
procedures for processing returnees upon their arrival in Bangladesh (including special
immigration, medical and help desks); organized transportation for returnees to central
bus terminals; and mobilized emergency resources to provide each returnee with Taka
1,000 (USD12.50) for bus transportation to their homes. Government stakeholders,
particularly the MOEWOE and the BMET, were active in project design and Government
fast-tracked its own approval processes in order to match the Bank’s pace of preparation.
Government ownership was complemented by the excellent working relationships
between Government, the Bank, and IOM and which continued into implementation.

2.1.5 Poverty and gender focus. The PDO did not have an explicitly poverty focus
and the project was not exclusively targeted to the poor. However, the project was
expected to benefit many poor workers, particularly unskilled and semi-skilled workers
engaged in construction work which constituted the average profile of Bangladeshi
migrant workers in Libya, and to prevent vulnerable households of returning workers
from falling into poverty.

2.1.6 The Project was in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
FY11-14 and the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP-2) for FY09-11.7 The
CAS focuses on accelerated, sustainable and inclusive growth, while the PRSP includes
safe foreign employment and improved social protection for pro-poor growth. The
Project supported safe overseas employment through repatriation of conflict affected
workers and improved social protection through provision of an emergency cash grant.
By setting the stage for livelihood restoration, the project also supported inclusive growth.

2.1.7 Risks and mitigation. Most risks were adequately identified and the risk
mitigation measures were appropriate. The appointment of a financial management
specialist in BMET experienced in Bank procedures was identified as a risk mitigation
measure to address the limited financial management capacity of BMET. However, BMET
was unable to hire a financial management specialist. This prompted the Bank team to
provide additional support on financial management issues. Other risk mitigation

6
  JSDF approval in principle was given in February 2011 but has not yet been approved as of February
2013.
7
  GOB (2009) Steps Towards Change: National Strategy for Accelerated Poverty Reduction (FY09-11),
revised, Dhaka.


                                                12
measures identified were: (i) comprehensive audits of cash payments, and (ii) an
establishment of a complaints mechanism for beneficiaries to register grievances.
However these above measures were not adopted as IOM conducted its own assessments
and regularly shared updates on the numbers of returnees verified for payments, grievance
cases sent to the Grievance Committee, as well as the list of payments (verified by SBL
statements). Audit reports were also prepared by the GoB and shared with the Bank.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1. The implementation period for the operation was 12 months. Board approval
was granted on April 26, 2011, effectiveness was declared on June 16, 2011, and the
project closed on June 30, 2012. The duration of the emergency operation was realistic
given its objectives.

2.2.2 Procurement under the Project. The entire IDA credit was encompassed in a
single non-consultancy services contract procured by MOEWOE under Direct
Contracting arrangements with the IOM. This approach was strategic for a number of
reasons. First, it is consistent with the Bank’s guidelines for emergency operations,
including use of rapid procurement methods (direct contracting) for procurement of
services of qualified UN agencies.8 Second, it reduced the procurement risk of the
project by reducing the number of procurement packages. Third, since IOM was
qualified in migration and delivery of cash transfers, the approach avoided time
consuming capacity building of the implementing agency and reduced governance issues
that could have emerged had the GoB implemented the program. Finally, IOM's charge
to the project was US$150,000, or about 0.4 percent of project costs for the establishment
of the cash transfer system and its management which was an extremely efficient use of
credit resources.9 Under this model, IOM worked as an extended arm of GoB in
implementation, with IOM implementing the program while maintaining overall GoB
oversight.

2.2.3. Retroactive financing. By March 2011, the majority of Bangladeshi workers
would have already been repatriated by IOM; therefore, expenditures incurred on or
after February 28, 2011 for Component 1 and April 18, 2011 for Component 2 were
eligible for retroactive financing up to 97.5 percent (or XDR 24,760,000). This
represented 100 percent of expenditures under Component 1 (Repatriation), and 96.4
percent of expenditures under Component 2 (Integration).10 The Board authorized this
exception to the retroactive financing limit, which allowed the GoB to continue
uninterrupted repatriation and to avoid having Bangladeshi workers remaining in camps
while the project was being prepared.


8
   The IOM is a UN affiliated international non-governmental organization comprised of 146 member and
13 observer states. The standard U.N. contract was modified in order to contract IOM.
9
  As at June 12, 2012, IOM had made an estimated contribution of US$0.3 million to finance administrative
costs beyond the US$150,000 allocated by the project. Information provided for ICR by IOM.
10
   During the implementation of the project, actual retroactive financing was not utilized by the Borrower..


                                                    13
2.2.4. Disbursement condition for cash grants. The design included the disbursement
condition for Component 2 of the preparation by IOM and approval by GoB and the Bank
of the cash grant Operational Procedures, including details of the public education
campaign, logistics for distribution of the cash grant, and methodology for ensuring the
identification and verification of beneficiaries eligible for the cash grant. The Operational
Procedures were submitted to the Bank and GoB on June 21, 2011 and the GoB provided
its clearance on June 30, 2011. The Operational Procedures were exhaustive and
consistent with international best practices for operational manuals for cash grant
programs. Requiring an operations manual prior to disbursement of cash grants to
beneficiaries is an important accountability and control mechanism for cash grant
programs, and the project provides evidence that it is also a feasible condition in
emergency situations.

2.2.5 Implementation of risk mitigation measures. Implementation of risk mitigation
measures was adequate. Although a financial management specialist was not assigned as
planned, the Bank supervision team provided as much support as possible to the client
with the preparation of the IUFRs and making withdrawal claims. Two financial audits
were conducted. The Bank supervision team conducted some spot checks of beneficiaries
and their accounts. A complaints mechanism was established. It was comprised of IOM
and Government representatives and reviewed cases of workers who had died or who had
already left again for overseas employment. The MOEWOE published a list of cash
beneficiaries on its website.

2.2.6. Mid-term Review (MTR). The project mid-term review carried out in
September-October, 2011 analyzed reasons for disbursements bottlenecks. A primary factor
was that the MOEWOE did not have sufficient documentation on bank transactions to
submit withdrawal applications, and this led to fund shortages in the Designated
Account. The Bank team provided recommendations that addressed the bottleneck. It
was agreed that (i) MEWOE would request IOM to provide instructions to Sonali Bank
Limited (SBL), the bank identified to transfer project funds to beneficiary accounts, in two
parts — one for beneficiaries with Sonali Bank accounts (approximately 90 percent of
beneficiaries) and one for non-Sonali Bank account holders; and (ii) SBL would in turn
provide certification of payment based on the transaction register and the list of
beneficiaries on a daily basis. This allowed for immediate certification for 90 percent of
SBL transactions and the submission of timely withdrawal applications for the remainder
of the project.

2.2.7 Hands-on supervision. The Bank team provided practical guidance during
implementation, especially with respect to financial management. This was particularly
important during start-up given the quick disbursing nature of this emergency operation,
capacity constraints in the MOEWOE/BMET, and the lack of a financial management
specialist hired or appointed by the client to support the project implementation.




                                             14
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 Design. This emergency operation had a simple monitoring framework with two
PDO indicators and three intermediate indicators. PDOs defined immediate impacts of
interventions since the emergency nature of the operation did now allow for longer term
objectives and the results framework focused on measuring intermediate outcomes and
activities (number of workers repatriated and number of grants paid to workers) as
opposed to assessing the impact of the credit, for example, the number of migrants who
have been reintegrated into the labor market.

The mid-term review recognized gaps in the M&E plan and indicated that the Bank
would implement an evaluation to include: (i) a process evaluation to understand the key
positive features of the project design that led to such a successful and expedient
implementation of the project with minimal leakage; (ii) random spot checks to verify the
final percentage of migrant workers who have received the one -time cash payment;11 and
(iii) an analysis of the type of intervention required to address the market failures that
currently exist in the overseas employment market for unskilled and semi-skilled labor.

Given the emergency nature of the operation, it was not feasible to include a rigorous
impact evaluation. The co-TTLs for preparation also noted concerns that complex
monitoring arrangements would impede emergency activities. This is a valid concern in
emergency situations; however, it would have been feasible to implement assessment
activities after emergency activities were completed. This could have possibly included
inter alia post implementation process audits, a beneficiary assessment, and analysis of
the situation of Bangladeshi workers in other countries at risk of conflict. However
inclusion of such activities would have required a longer execution period (perhaps 18
months).

2.3.2   Implementation and Utilization

The IOM developed a robust MIS that captured data on beneficiaries and payments and
which formed the basis of the monitoring system. The IOM provided weekly informal
email updates to BMET and the Bank team on key performance indicators.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1   Safeguard compliance. Project activities did not trigger any safeguards.

2.4.2 Fiduciary compliance. Financial management and procurement capacity
assessments were undertaken during preparation. The financial assessment found that the
BMET/MEWOE did not have adequate financial management capacity. As mentioned
above, the risk mitigation measure was to be the assignment of a financial management

11
  The Bank did undertake some spot checks but this was not a rigorous exercise. These spot checks found
that transitional assistance grant payments were made to the correct beneficiary accounts within the agreed
timeframe.


                                                    15
specialist familiar with Bank requirements. However, hiring turned out to be problematic
so the Bank supervision team increased its support to ensure proper financial
management of the project. As noted in Section 2.2, above, unaudited financial
statements were submitted although some were late. Financial audits were conducted by
the GoB Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate, with two financial audit reports
submitted on time.

Based on the procurement assessment, MOEWOE was not well equipped to carry out the
acquisition of goods and services. To lower procurement risks, the procurement plan
called for one US$40.0 million direct contract with IOM for implementation of all project
activities. This procurement arrangement was defined in the EPP and the Financing
Agreement and was not revised during implementation. This procurement activity was
carried out in compliance with the Bank’s procurement policy and procedural
requirements.

There were no fraud or corruption issues raised during implementation. Interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering each quarter were submitted,
however, all reports were late.12 Audited financial statements were submitted on time.
The Financing Agreement also required the Borrower to submit Project Reports to
cover the period of one calendar semester. The Borrower did not submit Project
Progress Reports but the IOM provided information on the project on a continued basis
both to the Bank and to Government. Although random checks of the cash grants were
carried out by the Bank team, it would have been beneficial to include independent
third-party process audits, particularly of the cash grant to further increase transparency
and accountability, as has been mentioned above.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 The Bank plans to support livelihood restoration through development of two
JSDF grants, one which will focus on facilitating migration and the second which will
focus on improving labor market outcomes inside Bangladesh. The former would
establish a network of community-based organizations (CBOs) in areas with high
numbers of potential migrants where there is lack of information and services to support
safe migration. The objective is to improve the conditions for Bangladeshi migrant
workers through addressing information needs, providing skill training and making the
migration process more transparent. The second grant is likely to focus on establish the
mechanisms of providing livelihood restoration support via labor market reinsertion of
returnees from Libya. Activities will include skills training and self-employment
services; development of a web-based system for job placement; and job intermediation
for poor unskilled workers.



12
  Reports were due October 30, 2011 ad January 30, April 30, and July 30, 2012. The July to September
and October to December 2011 unaudited statements were submitted on February 02, 2012 and January to
March and April to June 2012 on August 26, 2012


                                                 16
2.5.2 The MOEWOE is planning to use the call center equipment furnished with
Project resources as a migrant worker registration hub. The purpose of this hub would
be to offer safe and less expensive ways to migrate. Transition arrangements for the
MIS (database, software and hardware) developed by IOM are cuurently under
discussions.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 Relevance of objectives. The PDOs were highly appropriate to the emergency
context and, as such, focused on immediate impacts of interventions rather than longer
term objectives. The PDOs were in line with the CAS (FY11-14) and the PRSP (FY09-
11).13 Accordingly, the project rested on the following pillars: accelerated, sustainable
and inclusive growth (from the CAS) and safe foreign employment and improved social
protection in support of pro-poor growth (from the PRSP).

3.1.2 Design and implementation. Project design included clearly defined activities
consistent with relevant emergency experience in Bangladesh and other countries. The
first component addressed the need to return conflict affected workers to Bangladesh in a
timely manner. Retroactive financing provided the vehicle to facilitate uninterrupted
repatriation. UN protocols for voluntary repatriation were applied. The Bank team
ensured that procedures for implementation of the cash grant met international standards
by contracting a consultant to assist in preparing a procedures manual and required the
manual as a condition for disbursement on Component 2. The implementation approach
chosen contributed to smooth and timely implementation and achievement of project
objectives. This was facilitated by consensus among partners on objectives and activities.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 The project achieved its development objectives. A total of 36,713 conflict
affected workers were repatriated, 36,683 registered with IOM to receive the cash
assistance, and 36,307 of them were verified and received the transitional cash transfer
(Table 2). At 99 percent of targeted beneficiaries, coverage of the cash grant was near
universal. Moreover, this was accomplished within an extremely short execution period
(Figures 1 and 2). Stakeholders were in agreement that the efficient implementation of
activities by IOM was a key factor in the success of the project.




13
     Steps Towards Change: National Strategy for Accelerated Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (FY09-11)


                                                    17
                       Table 2: Project Development Objectives and Indicators
     Project Development Objective             PDO Indicators           Baseline      Target       Actual14
Objective 1: Repatriate migrant workers   1. Repatriated migrant
who have fled ongoing conflict in Libya   workers who arrived
                                                                       29,800(a)    10,000 (b)    13,484 (c)
from refugee camps in neighboring         safely at the airport in
countries in timely manner                Dhaka (total number)
Objective 2: Provide one-time cash grant 2. Repatriated migrant
as safety net measure to help them meet workers who received the
                                                                         none         100%           99%
immediate basic needs and commence onetime            cash    grant
process of livelihood restoration         (number and % )
a) Number already repatriated and to be financed with retroactive financing
b) 10,000 as specified by the Financing Agreement and 30% of 30,000 as specified in EPP
c) Number of returnees for which IOM was reimbursed (original 10,000 plus 3,484 transported by Biman)
d) Total number of returnees repatriated



            Figure 1: Flow of Repatriated                           Figure 2: Flow of Cash Grants,
                    Workers, 2011                                              2011 -12




        Source: IOM (2012) Repatriation and Reintegration        Source: compiled by author based on IOM (2012)
        of Bangladeshi Returnees from Libya, draft Final         Snapshot of Payments, Dhaka.
        Report, Dhaka.


   All Intermediate Outcome indicators where achieved. IO number 1 was achieved at 100
   percent - all workers had photo identification at project closing. Approximately 18
   percent of returnees did not have passports upon return. Photographs of these returnees
   were taken as part of airport immigration processing and these photographs were used by
   IOM to verify workers. In terms of IO # 2, the public education was launched. Also the
   cash grant system was put in place and was operational during implementation of the
   cash grant. It was later dismantled as there was no need for the system given that the
   emergency was over, and no further returnees were expected from Libya. Nevertheless
   the office set up including the software and hardware as well as the Operations Manual is
   being maintained by BMET. The experience gathered and these assets can be utilized to

   14
      Actual figures are as reported by IOM (2012) Repatriation and Reintegration of Bangladeshi Returnees
   from Libya, draft Final Report, Dhaka.


                                                            18
address similar emergencies in the future. Achievement of these intermediate indicators
contributed directly to achievement of the second PDO since they made it possible for the
beneficiary to receive their cash assistance grant.

     Intermediate Outcome          Outcome Indicators           Baseline          Target             Actual
Component       1:     Migrant Percent of repatriated
                                                            Not
workers who seek to repatriate migrant workers who have                       100%            100%
                                                            available
undergo repatriation process   proof of photo ID
                               TV and newspaper
                                                                              Numerous
                               advertisements have been                                      2 Newspaper, 2 TV,
                                                            Not               newspaper and
Component       2:     Migrant launched to inform about                                      2 radio, 6 SMS,
                                                            available         TV
workers who arrive in home cash grants and livelihood                                        leaflets
                                                                              advertisements
country receive one-time cash activities
grant                                                                         System is in    System in place and
                               Cash transfer system
                                                               None given     place and       operational during
                               established through banks
                                                                              operational     life of project



3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1. The project was an emergency response operation and economic or financial
analysis was not undertaken during appraisal. However, the administrative cost of
delivering the benefits was quite low. The total of these administrative costs, including
project financed (US$150,000) and IOM financed about US$306,339 in administrative
costs, represented about 2 percent of the direct costs of repatriation and reintegration.
This turned out to be a very efficient operation costing only a small fraction in
comparison with international standards, where costs for administering cash transfers
average 7 – 8 percent of budgets total costs.15 Key implementation decisions, such as
waivers on retroactive financing and procurement allowed for speedy implementation
and also reduced overall costs.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

3.4.1    The rating of Highly Satisfactory is based on the following:

    High relevance of the PDOs to the CAS and the PRSP
    Salience of project design and methodology to the emergency context
    Development objectives fully achieved
    Project targets achieved
    Highly efficient and timely implementation of project activities

15
  See for example, Margaret Grosh, Carlo del Ninno, Emil Tesliuc, and Azedine Ouerghi (2008) For Protection
and Promotion: The Design And Implementation Of Effective Safety Nets, World Bank, Washington, DC.


                                                   19
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 The project did not have a specific poverty focus; however, it is assumed that a
substantial share of benefits have gone to poor or vulnerable households. The majority of
migrant workers who worked in Libya were mostly unskilled or semi-skilled, and largely
employed in the construction industry. Average reported monthly household income by
returning workers was US$129 per month or about $26 per capita16 or, on average, just
above the poverty line of approximately US$20 per capita.17

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.2. The BMET now has experience in repatriation and knowledge regarding best
practices in terms of delivery of cash transfers. It now has the software and hardware and
the Cash Grant Procedures Manual and a MIS to facilitate implementation of a similar
program should such an emergency arise in the future. SLB, which held the project bank
accounts, has advanced in-house capacity to rapidly disburse cash to beneficiary accounts
and to account for those transactions.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.3. As a result of lessons learned from the Libya crisis and this emergency operation,
IOM Geneva established an Emergency Migration Fund. This fund is expected to help
IOM to timely and effectively respond to future emergencies such as the problems faced
by IOM in Libya where the requirements of the emergency outpaced IOM resources.
The fund will be used for the emergency affected repatriate migrants.

3.5.4. Although not part of project design, the SBL agreed to convert Libyan currency
into Bangladesh Taka for returnees upon their arrival. This enhanced the welfare of
returnees although this has resulted in large amounts of Libyan currency lying with SBL
that it has not been able to convert. Moreover, the SBL did not charge for handling such
a large volume of transactions in the returnees’ bank accounts, which suggests that
corporate social responsibility can be mobilized quickly in emergency situations.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1 While a more formal beneficiary survey was not carried out, one focus group with
eleven returning workers was held during the ICR preparation. In addition, IOM, with its
own resources, conducted a follow up assessment of 7,234 returning workers. The
assessment reported that 52 percent of workers left Libya with unpaid salaries of up to

16
   IOM (2012) Repatriation and Reintegration of Bangladeshi Returnees from Libya, draft Final Report,
Dhaka.
17
   World Bank. 2013. Bangladesh Poverty Assessment 2010 (forthcoming)


                                                 20
three months, 36 percent with unpaid salary of 4 to 6 months, and 9 percent with unpaid
salary of 7 to 9 months. The majority (84%) had been in Libya for less than a year. This
means that many came home owing a significant amount of migration related debt. The
cash grant was used to repay these loans (54 percent), followed by investment in business
(20 percent), future migration (11 percent), and family (10 percent). It is impossible to
assess whether or not repayment of debt facilitated restoration of livelihoods. On the one
hand, it may have diverted resources away from investments in business. On the other
hand, by reducing interest bearing debt, repayment of loans may have facilitated future
investments in livelihoods and/or migration to another country.

3.6.2   There was no stakeholder workshop.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low

4.1    There is no real risk to development outcomes. The affected workers
returned to Bangladesh and almost 99 percent received the one-time non-
reimbursable cash grant.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

    (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

5.1.1   This rating is based on the following:

   Fast track processing to ensure responsiveness to the emergency
   PDOs that were relevant, measurable, and achievable in the time frame of the project
    and consistent with the requirements of the emergency
   Innovative and relevant approach to an emergency situation that relied on a simple
    design that was realistic given immediate needs of the emergency and the one year
    time frame for implementation
   Pragmatic implementation arrangements that addressed capacity constraints of
    Government by relying on existing capacity within IOM while at the same time
    reducing procurement risks
   Flexibility in adjusting Bank procedures while still maintaining adherence to
    fiduciary safeguards, particularly with respect to 100 percent retroactive financing
    and one direct contract with IOM for implementation of all project activities

5.1.2. Balanced by some weaknesses:

   Background analysis could have been strengthened through rapid assessment of
    beneficiaries (most of whom were already in the country)

                                            21
   Project design could have included more emphasis on M&E, for example, third-party
    process audits and beneficiary assessments

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.3   This rating is based on the following:

   Continuity between the preparation and supervision teams, with one of the three co-
    TTLs and the fiduciary team for preparation remaining during implementation
   Continuous interaction between the Bank team, the BMET/MOEWOE and IOM, in
    which IOM monitoring reports were shared among the partners
   Ensuring fast disbursements with 90% of funds disbursed within the first five months
    of project life.
   Regular review of informal IOM reports on the status of implementation
   Provided financial management support from Bank team
   Facilitated disbursements through practical guidance regarding design of accounting
    spreadsheets and preparation of replenishment requests
   Practical and prompt advice and action to resolve disbursement bottlenecks via
    continuous interaction with SBL
   Arrangements put in place though speedy submission of JSDF grant proposal to
    support restoration of livelihoods
   Responded swiftly to meet the request from GoB to support Biman by providing the
    necessary support to MOEWOE to amend the IOM contract and close the project on
    time

5.1.4   Balanced by some weaknesses:

   Follow-up on Borrower reporting requirements could have been stronger
   All of the evaluation activities thought useful during the mid-term review not
    implemented
   More attention to transition arrangements after project closing needed, particularly for the
    institutional memory of project activities, including the cash transfer procedures.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank’s Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.5 This rating is based on the highly satisfactory quality at entry and the satisfactory
quality of supervision. On the whole, the Bank team designed and implemented an
innovative emergency operation and did so in near record time between identification and
approval, as well as in the implementation of a cash transfer system.

5.2 Borrower Performance
                                              22
(a) Government’s Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

5.1.1   This rating is based on the following:

   Moved quickly to request assistance from the Bank
   Speedy processing of necessary internal approvals and the contract with IOM
   Advanced funds for repatriation in order to prevent interruptions in repatriation
   Mobilized emergency resources to provide each returnee with Taka 1,000 for
    transportation from central bus terminals to their home
   Advanced funds for cash grants due to expected delays in Designated Account
    replenishment.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies’ Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.1   This rating is based on the following:

   Efficient implementation of all activities by IOM
   Efficient management of project and beneficiary bank accounts by Sonali Bank
    Limited without receiving any service fee
   Borrower, in collaboration with IOM, established procedures for reintegration and
    repatriation
   Borrower successfully managed IOM contract
   Borrower, actively monitored the performance of IOM in completing its assignment
   Satisfactory financial management by Borrower, albeit with significant bank support
   Satisfactory procurement
   Borrower submitted all audited financial statements on time and with no significant
    accounting issues
   Borrower, facilitated implementation of cash grant through provision of space for
    call and verification centers for cash grant and staff to serve on Grievance Committee.

5.1.4   Balanced by some weaknesses:

   Borrower, did not comply with formal reporting requirements, although Bank was
    provided with all required information through regular informal updates on the status
    of key performance indicators
   Changes in ministry staff, which were generally out of the Ministry’s control, resulted
    in some loss of institutional memory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance



                                            23
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.5 The rating for overall borrower performance is satisfactory. This rating represents a
balance of highly satisfactory for Government performance, particularly the Ministry of
Finance, and satisfactory rating for Implementing Agency performance.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1.1   Fast track emergency operations for migration are feasible. The project was
        the first emergency migration project funded by the Bank and demonstrates that
        the Bank can play an important role in protecting emergency affected migrants.

6.1.2   The Bank can be responsive to borrower needs in emergencies, but this
        requires flexibility in the application of Bank rules. In the case of this
        operation, clearance was given for 100 percent retroactive financing of
        repatriation and direct contracting of IOM for implementation of all project
        activities. As evidenced by this project, larger than usual advances may also be
        necessary due to the quick disbursing nature of emergency credits and grants.
        Obtaining the necessary clearances and an agreement for an expedited approval
        time line can only happen with the support of management at all levels. It also
        helps to have at least one TTL who is experienced in bringing emergency projects
        to the Board.

6.1.3   Simplicity of project design facilitates implementation in emergency
        operations and provides a greater opportunity for achieving project design.
        The design was kept simple – there were clearly defined activities and an easily
        identifiable target group. Implementation arrangements were also simple – they
        relied on one contract for implementation of all activities. It also helps to have a
        TTL in the field to quickly respond to client needs and address implementation
        bottlenecks.

6.1.4   Planning for the unplanned is important because emergencies are dynamic
        and identification of additional needs may not be possible. In the case of this
        operation, it was not possible to estimate the future flow of refugee workers so the
        project included a contingency amount to be utilized according to emerging
        needs.

6.1.5   Emergency operations cannot wait for rigorous analytic work to inform
        design; however, to the degree possible, the Bank needs to take stock of the
        situation. This does not mean that the Bank will always need to carry out the
        assessments as they can rely on other agencies to carry out the assessment where
        appropriate. Beneficiary assessments do not need to slow down preparation.
        Terms of reference are available and the assessment can be implemented by local
        consultants. At the same time, background work should identify other affected
        persons who might not be immediately obvious. In this case, it would have been
        appropriate to think beyond the immediate target group to assess the situation of

                                            24
        the households of workers who did not leave Libya to determine their social
        protection needs (income support or psychosocial care).

6.1.6   Development of operational manuals prior to the first disbursement of a cash
        transfer is good practice and feasible in emergency situations. The manual
        provides a definition of procedures, roles and responsibilities and provides a
        bench mark against which to assess whether the program has been implemented
        according to agreement. Manuals should be reviewed post-emergency and
        adjusted accordingly based on lessons learned. In this way, they can serve as a
        guiding document for future emergencies.

6.1.7   Third-party processes audits could be important accountability and control
        mechanisms. They help to verify that the right people are receiving (or received)
        the cash grant and that processes were efficient. However, the inclusion of such
        instruments needs to be agreed on as early as possible to allow for such
        instruments to be truly effective which may not always be possible in emergency
        situations.

6.1.8   Emergencies provide opportunities to build systems to reduce the impact of
        future shocks. Capacity constraints of the Government was addressed by
        pragmatic implementation arrangements with high level of reliance on the
        existing capacity of IOM, while at the same time adopting measures to reduce
        procurement risks. The BMET now has experience in repatriation and delivery of
        cash transfers. It now has the software and hardware and the Cash Grant
        Procedures Manual and a MIS to facilitate implementation of a similar program
        should such an emergency arise in the future. SBL which held the project
        accounts, has advanced in-house capacity to rapidly disburse cash to beneficiaries
        accounts and to account for those transactions.

6.1.9   Emergency operations should endeavor to include support for capacity
        building and knowledge generation. If there is concern that these activities will
        interfere with implementation of emergency activities, they can be sequenced to
        occur following completion of emergency activities. With respect to this
        operation, the M&E plan could have included a process audit; beneficiary
        assessment; assessment of the situation of Bangladeshi workers in other conflict
        affected countries; and assessment of the requirements for sustainable social
        protection for Bangladeshi migrant workers. It could have also included training
        MIS use and maintenance and procedures established by IOM. This was a missed
        opportunity.

6.1.10 If designed well, it is possible to achieve high returns without incurring large
       administrative costs. The administrative cost of delivering the benefits was quite
       low. The total of these administrative costs, including project financed
       (US$150,000) and IOM financed (US $306,339) represented about 2 percent of
       the direct costs of repatriation and reintegration. This represents a small fraction


                                            25
       in comparison with international standards where costs for administering cash
       transfers average 7 – 8 percent of total budget costs.

6.1.11 Conversion of local currency into home country currency for migrants is a
       good practice which should be included in future repatriation operations.
       Mechanisms should be identified to assist the banking institutions involved to
       recycle these funds or to compensate them for the transaction costs involved.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Not-applicable

(b) Cofinanciers

Not-applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not-applicable




                                         26
                            Annex 1. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Repatriation

The costs associated directly with the airlift of 13,484 Bangladeshi migrant workers to
Bangladesh were financed by the project. The airlift of 10,000 migrants was reimbursed
to IOM and the additional cost of the airlift of 3,484 migrants was reimbursed to
Bangladesh Biman, the national carrier.

Component 2: Reintegration

A detailed Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) was developed and finalized in
coordination with GoB, which set out the eligibility criteria and the process of verification
of documents, eligibility and finally the actual disbursement of the cash grant.

A Call Centre and a Verification Hub were established, including the procurement of
furniture and necessary hardware.

A comprehensive database from the registration conducted at the airport was developed by
IOM, in order to ensure a smooth verification and cash disbursement process.

A Grievance Committee was set up consisting of representatives from IOM, Ministry of
Expatriates’ Welfare and Overseas Employment (MOEWOE) and Bureau of Manpower
Employment and Training (BMET).

A total of 54 staff were recruited, including a Hub Supervisor and trained accordingly on
the SOP as well as the database, document verification and call centre operation.

Overview

Total Number of returnees who registered with IOM                                              36,683
Total Number of Verifications                                                                  36,307
Total Number of Cash Transfers Completed                                                       36,307
Total Number of Cases cleared by Grievance Committee                                           412
Total Number of Grievances not resolved*                                                       230
Total Number of Returnees who did not contact IOM/IOM could not reach**                        146
* This includes those people who had left the country without registering for the cash assistance,
whose who applied from abroad but did not meet the deadline, and those cases who filed a case
but did not follow through. This figure represents 30 more persons than the GoB records
presented in the Borrower ICR.
** This figure is 10 more persons than the figure reported in the Borrower ICR.




                                              27
                       Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD
Million equivalent)
                  Appraisal
                              Actual/Latest
                  Estimate                  Percentage of
Components                    Estimate (USD
                  (USD                      Appraisal
                              millions)
                  millions)
Component 1            46.7         48.9        105.7
Component 2            26.5         23.3        87.9
Total Baseline
                        0            0
Cost

Price
                        0.9             0               0
Contingencies
Total Project
                       74.1            72.2           97.4
Costs

Total Financing
                       74.1            72.2           97.4
Required

(b) Financing
                                          Actual/Latest
                            Appraisal                   Percentage
                Type of                   Estimate
Source of Funds             Estimate (USD               of
                Cofinancing               (USD
                            millions)                   Appraisal
                                          millions)
Borrower /Biman                        4.6             4.6          100

IOM                                    29.5          29.8*          101
International
Development
                                        40.0           38.0         95
Association
(IDA**)
(*) includes the additional resources of US $306,339 spent by IOM for setting 
up the cash transfer system 
(**) US $2 million is exchange rate loss due the SDR exchange rate 




                                            28
c) Disbursement by Category in SDRs

                                                                     Actual       Undisbursed         %
 Category            Description            Allocation
                                                                  Disbursement      Amount        Disbursed

     1       Transportation Services   7,950,000.00          9,843,128.18
             Transitional Assistance
     2       Grants                    16,720,000.00         15,311,080.91

     3       Unallocated               630,000.00            -

     DA      Designated Account                          -   142,868.48


             Total                     25,300,000.00         25,297,077.57            2,922.43        99.99%
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   

d) Disbursement by Category in US Dollar equivalent allocation versus actual
Disbursement

                                                                     Actual       Undisbursed         %
 Category            Description            Allocation
                                                                  Disbursement      Amount        Disbursed
                                                                                                   

     1       Transportation Services   11,929,531.50         14,770,302.85
             Transitional Assistance
     2       Grants                    25,089,530.40         22,975,348.68

     3       Unallocated               945,359.10            -

     DA      Designated Account                          -   214,384.16


             Total                     37,964,421.00         37,960,035.69            4,385.31         99.99%
                                                                                                   
The above calculation is based on July 23, 2012 exchange rate                                      
The last and final transaction was July 12, 2012.                                                  




                                                    29
   Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
            Names                         Title                   Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
                                                                          Co-TTL, Social
Iffath Anwar Sharif        Sr. Economist, TTL                    SASSP
                                                                          Protection
Andras Horvai              Country Program Coordinator          SACBA     Advisor
Bernice Van Bronkhorst     Sr. Urban Specialist                 SASDU     TTL
Zahed Khan                 Sr. Urban Specialist                 SASDU     Co-TTL
                                                                          Cash Transfer
Hjalte Sederlof            Short-term Consultant                 SASSP
                                                                          Manual
Catherine Desiree Gamper   Short-term Consultant                SASSP     Research
Van Anh Vu Hong            Short-term Consultant                SASDU     Research
                           Sr. Financial Management                       Financial
Burhanuddin Ahmed                                               SASFM
                           Specialist                                     Management
Marghoob Bin Hussein       Sr. Procurement Specialist           SASPR     Procurement
Zafrul Islam               Lead Procurement Specialist          SASPR     Procurement
Md. Tafazzal Hossain       Program Assistant                    SASDU     Coordination

Supervision/ICR
Iffath Anwar Sharif        Sr. Economist, TTL                   SASSP     TTL
Bernice Van Bronkhorst     Sector Manager                       SASDC     Operations
Zahed Khan                 Sr. Urban Specialist                 SASDU     Operations
Jessica Leino              Economist                            SASSP     Social Protection
Aneeka Rahman              Economist                            SASSP     Operations
Lorraine Blank             Short-term Consultant                SASSP     Author ICR
Jaferi Hussain             Short-term Consultant                SASSP     Coordination
Nushin Subhan              Short-term Consultant                SASSP     Coordination
Mohammad Sayeed            Short-term Consultant                SASSP     Financial Mgt.
Md. Mahtab Alam            Program Assistance                   SASSP     Coordination

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY11                                         21.03                        119,723.58
                           Total:                                      119,723.58
Supervision/ICR
FY12                                            21.56                          77,881.63
FY13                                             3.98                          57,174.51

                           Total:                                        135,056.14


                                           30
                        Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results

A beneficiary survey was not conducted; however, a focus group with 11 male returnees
was held. Following is a summary of the discussion:

1. Workers had been in Libya from 12 months to 11 years
2. All were employed in building trades with the exception of one workers who was
    employed in sales
3. All were employed as unskilled or semiskilled workers
4. Workers waited from between 1 and 3 months to be repatriated
5. 8 out of 11 stayed at their workplaces and not in camps
6. 3 out of 11 lost wages as a result of the conflict, with lost wages ranging from 2-4
    months
7. All reported that the airport was well organized
8. The primary mechanism for receipt of information on the cash grant was received via
    cell phone, with all workers reporting that they received text messages and heard and
    read at least one other media message.
9. Workers reported difficult in getting through to call centers with calls made
    repeatedly over many days
10. 9 out of 11 had to open a bank account as they did not already have one
11. Of those who opened a bank account, 4 reported that they were charged an unofficial
    fee of between Taka 150 and 500
12. Workers waited between 7 days and 2.5 days after verification to receive money in
    their bank accounts
13. 9 out of 11 used the cash grant to repay debt
14. 3 out of 11 still had debt at the time of the focus group
15. 6 out of 11 were either employed or self employed




                                           31
              Annex 5. Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Cover letter signed by Ms. Zubaida Mannan, Senior Assistant Secretary




                                                    

                                                  32
                    Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) 
                                             ON 
       Emergency Repatriation and Livelihood Restoration of Migrant Workers Project. 
               Preparing and submitting to the Bank completion report of GoB: 
                                               
    1. (a) Assessment of the operation’s Objective:?   

In the midst of the severe unrest in Libya, approximately 36,700 Bangladeshi nationals had been 
repatriated  to  Bangladesh  through  IOM  assistance,  together  with  flight  assistance  from  the 
national  carrier,  Bangladesh  Biman  while  some  travelled  with  the  assistance  of  their  employers 
and  by  personal  means.  Given  the  nature  of  the  unrest,  many  fled  Libya  without  their  savings 
and  some  even  without  receiving  their  last  few  months’  salary.  As  a  result,  the  Government  of 
Bangladesh  (GoB)  applied  for  and  received  a  USD  40  million  credit  from  International 
Development Agency (IDA) in order to provide the returnees with  modest immediate cash grant 
(BDT  50,000  cash  grant  amount  per  person)  and  also  to  reimburse  IOM  for  a  portion  of  the  cost 
of repatriation of Bangladeshi nationals. 
 
      (b) Design:? 
Target Population. 
 All  Bangladeshi  returnees  from  Libya  after  February  28,  2011,  that  have  met  the  eligibility 
criteria for claimants set out below. 
 
Eligibility Criteria.  
All  claimants  were  asked  to  register  by  BMET  through  its  Probashi  Kallyan  Desk  (PKD)  on  arrival 
at  the  airport,  the  list  of  these  returnees  contained  in  the  Master  Database  as  received  from 
BMET and as per the PKD cards filled out by all returnees.  
 
Payment Amount, Timing, Delivery Mechanisms. 
The payment amount (a one?time cash payment) is BDT 50,000. 
The  timing  (the  payment  period)    indicated  to  the  claimant  following  successfully  verification, 
the  average  time  being  10?15  working  days,  although  transfers  for  Sonali  Bank  account  holders 
proved  much  shorter.  The  delivery  mechanism  was  a  one?time  deposit  to  the  claimants  account 
(specified for the purpose) in Sonali Bank, one of its branches or in another bank. 
 
(c) Implementation: 
Very  inception  of  the  Project,  GoB  (Ministry  of  Finance)  released  BDT136.25  crore  (USD  18.60 
million)  as  an  advance  to  start  distributing  immediate  cash  grant  to  Libya  returnees.  From  this 
amount only BDT 43.95 crore had been utilized to address the primary need of the project. Later 
BDT  43.95  crore  was  deposited  to  GoB  after  getting  IDA  fund.  However,  approximate  38000 
(thirty  eight  thousand)  Bangladeshi  nationals  had  been  decided  to  repatriate  to  Bangladesh. 
Finally,  approximately  36,700  Bangladeshi  nationals  have  been  repatriated  back  to  Bangladesh 
through  IOM  assistance,  together  with  flight  assistance  from  the  national  carrier?Bangladesh 
Biman by personal means.  
One  of  the  major  components  of  the  Project  was  to  disburse  cash  grant  of  BDT  50000  to  each 
returnees.  But  a  total  of  36,683  (thirty  six  thousand  six  hundred  sixty  three)  number  of 
Bangladeshi nationals received cash grant. 



                                                     33
Later another component was included after an amended agreement with World Bank and GoB. 
Approximately  USD  3.45  million  was  reimbursed  to  Bangladesh  Biman  against  repatriation  of 
3,484 returnees. 
 
(d) Operational Experience: 
It is an exemplary experience for Bangladesh to complete this project within 12 months of given 
period of time.  
 
      2. Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives:   

For the purpose of the disbursement of the cash grant, a Call Centre and a Verification Hub were 
established  at  the  Government?run  Sheikh  Fazilatunnesa  Mujib  Women’s  Technical  Training 
Centre  (TTC).  The  returnees,  upon  obtaining  their  appointments  through  the  call  centre  were 
required  to  come  in  person  with  all  necessary  documentation  to  the  Verification  Hub  to  verify 
existing  documents  to  determine  whether  the  applicant  was  an  eligible  returnee.  Upon 
successful  verification,  the  returnees  were  provided  with  a  receipt  of  successful  verification  and 
the  onetime  cash  grant  was  transferred  directly  to  the  beneficiary’s  account  through  Sonali 
Bank.  

                                       OVERVIEW   OF   RESULTS  

     Total Number of Returnees                                                                       36,683 
     Total Number of Repatriated Bangladeshi Nationals to be reimbursed by GoB                       13,484 
     Total Number of Verifications                                                                   36,307 
     Total Number of Cash Transfers Completed                                                        36,307 
     Total Number of Cases cleared by Grievance Committee                                            412 
     Total Number of Grievances not resolved/did not contact IOM                                     215 
     Total Number of Returnees who did not contact IOM/IOM could not reach                           136 
  
   3. Evaluation of the Borrowers : 
1. A  detailed  Standard  Operating  Procedures  (SOP)  was  developed  and  finalized  in 
   coordination  with GoB, which set out  the eligibility criteria and the process of verification of 
   documents, eligibility and finally the actual disbursement of the cash grant.  
2. Sonali  Bank  was  identified  by  GoB  as  the  disbursing  bank,  and  a  Service  Agreement  was 
   signed  between  Sonali  Bank  and  IOM,  outlining  the  process  of  fund  management  and 
   transfer, and reporting mechanisms.  
3. An outreach campaign was conducted in several stages:  
       a. First  phase:  All  Bangladeshi  returnees  having  returned  to  Bangladesh  on  or  after  28 
            February  2011  were  informed  of  the  reintegration  programme,  and  requested  to 
            open a bank account through print and electronic media.   
       b. Second  phase:  All  potential  beneficiaries  were  informed  regarding  the  required 
            documentation,  verification  and  cash  grant  disbursement  procedure  including 
            location,  start  date  and  call  centre  numbers  (through  print  and  electronic  media, 
            including a TV spot showing the verification process).  

                                                     34
4. A comprehensive database from the registration conducted at the airport was developed by 
    IOM,  in  order  to  ensure  a  smooth  verification  and  cash  disbursement  process.  The  Call 
    Centre and Verification Hub were connected to the main network.  
5. A  Grievance  Committee  was  set  up  consisting  of  representatives  from  IOM,  Ministry  of 
    Expatriates’  Welfare  and  Overseas  Employment  (MoEWOE)  and  Bureau  of  Manpower 
    Employment and Training (BMET).  
6. A total of 54  staff were recruited, including a Hub Supervisor and trained accordingly on  the 
    SOP as well as the database, document verification and call centre operation.  
7. A  Call  Centre  was  set  up  at  the  TTC,  including  the  procurement  of  furniture  and  necessary 
    hardware. 
8. A  Verification  Hub  was  set  up  (including  furniture,  infrastructure  and  hardware)  with  18 
    operational  Verification  Officers  (VO),  who  were  responsible  for  verifying  the  eligibility  of 
    the  claimant.  In  addition  to  the  Hub  Supervisor,  three  Assistant  Supervisors  were  also 
    appointed  to  oversee  the  operation  of  the  18  VOs  and  the  34  (17  in  each  of  the  two  shifts) 
    call centre operators.  
9. Once  the  majority  of  the  returnees  had  obtained  appointments  for  the  in?person 
    verification,  the  call  centre  operators  were  also  used  for  spot  checking  on  the  payments 
    being  made,  in  order  to  monitor  the  payments  of  the  cash  grant  and  address  delays/non?
    payment issues. 
10. Sonali  Bank  provided  periodic  records  of  successful  transactions  for  reconciliation  of 
    payments by IOM.  
     
    4.  Evaluation of the performance of the Bank: 

The  IDA  credit  taken  by  the  Government  of  Bangladesh  through  World  Bank  in  order  to  provide 
each  returnee  with  a  onetime  cash  grant  of  BDT  50,000  and  to  reimburse  IOM  and  Bangladesh 
Biman  for  the  repatriation  cost  of  10,000  and  3484  returnees  respectively  was  indeed  very 
timely  and  contributed  greatly  to  the  immediate  financial  crisis  faced  by  the  returnees.  GoB 
worked  with  the  World  Bank  on  a  new area  of  intervention  for  the  Bank  –  emergency  situations 
– and given the positive outcome and efficient manner the project was implemented, the World 
Bank  expressed  keenness  to  collaborate  in  similar  programmes  with  GoB  in  other  parts  of  the 
world if a situation arises.   

 

Description of the proposed arrangements for the future operation of the project:  

Not applicable as the project is already closed. 




                                                      35
                        Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

A. Bank Project Documents

All documents in project files with particular focus on:

Emergency Project Paper, Report No: 60376-BD, IDA, April 19, 2011
Financing Agreement, Credit Number 4940-BD, May 30, 2011
Supervision ISRs (Report No: ISR6936 and Report No: ISR4539)
Mid-Term Review Technical Report and Aide Memoire, November 3, 2011
Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate, GoB, Audit Inspections Report (September 2,
2012)
Draft Report on Sample Spot Check of Libya Migrants Workers Bank Accounts with
Sonali Bank Branches of Different Districts (undated)
Government of Bangladesh (2009) Contract with the International Organization for
Migration for the Repatriation and Re-integration of Bangladeshi Returnees from Libya,
June 2011, Dhaka
Draft Report on Sample Spot Check of Libya Migrants Workers Bank Accounts with
Sonali Bank Branches of different districts


B. Other Documents

Grosh, Margaret, Carlo del Ninno, Emil Tesliuc, and Azedine Ouerghi (2008) for
Protection and Promotion: The Design and Implementation of Effective Safety Nets,
World Bank, Washington, DC.

Government of Bangladesh (2009) Steps Towards Change: National Strategy for
Accelerated Poverty Reduction (FY09-11).

International Organization for Migration (2012) Repatriation and Reintegration of
Bangladeshi Returnees from Libya, draft Final Report, Dhaka.

International Organization for Migration (2012) Snapshot of Payments, Dhaka.

International Organization for Migration (2012) Study on Bangladeshi Returnees from
Libya, Dhaka

International Organization for Migration (2011) Operational Procedures for Cash
Assistance to Bangladeshi Returnees from Libya, Dhaka

Marzo, Federica and Hideki Mori (2012) Crisis Response in Social Protection, World
Bank, Washington, DC. Report No: 1205

World Bank (forthcoming) Bangladesh Poverty Assessment 2010, Washington, DC.



                                            36
World Bank (2012) “Bangladesh: Towards Accelerated, Inclusive and Sustainable
Growth – Opportunities and Challenges.? Bangladesh Development Series, Washington,
DC. Report No. 67991.

World Bank (2010) Country Assistance Strategy for the People’s Republic of Bangladesh,
2911-2014, Washington, DC. Report No: 54615-BD

World Bank (2007) World Bank Operations Manual, Rapid Response to Crisis,
Operational Policies/Bank Procedures 8.0

World Bank (2007) Toward a New Framework for Rapid Bank Response to Crises and
Emergencies, Washington, DC.




                                         37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33368R
                   To Gangtok
    88ºE                                               89ºE                      BHUTAN                      90ºE                                           91ºE

                                                                                                                                                                                         B A N GL A D ESH
                                                                                                                                                                                                         DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                         DIVISION CAPITALS
                                                                                             To
                                                                                            Dispur
                                    Panchagar                                                                                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
  To                           PANCHAGAR                                                                                                                                                                 RIVERS
 Patna
                                                                                                                                                      BANGLADESH
                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS



                                                                 LA
  26ºN         Thakurgaon




                                                                  LM
                                              NILPHAMARI                                                                                                                                                 RAILROADS



                                                                     O
                                                                       N
             THAKURGAON                          Nilphamari                      Lalmonirhat




                                                                         IR
                                                                           HA
                                                                                                                                                                                                         DISTRICT BOUNDARIES



                                                                             T
                                                                                       Kurigram
                                                              Rangpur                                                                                                                                    DIVISION BOUNDARIES
   To                                                                                KURIGRAM
 Katihar                                  Dinajpur             RANGPUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                             DINAJPUR                                                            To
                                                                                                               Goalpara

     To
                                                                                                                                                       I N DI A
   Katihar                                                                 Gaibandha                                                                                                         To         92ºE                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                            Dispur                          Dispur
                                                                           GAIBANDHA

                                                      JOYPURHAT
                                                                                                               SERPUR
                                                            Joypurhat                                                                                              Sunamganj
                                                                                                                                                                                                     SYLHET
  25ºN                                                                                                           Serpur                                                                                                                       25ºN
                                    NAOGAON
                                                                           BOGRA                  Jamalpur
                                                                                                                                         NETROKONA                       SUNAMGANJ          Sylhet
                                    Naogaon
                                                                            Bogra                     JAMALPUR                                 Netrokona
                                     RAJSHAHI                                                                                  Mymensingh
                                                                                                                                                                                  SYLHET
           NOWABGANJ                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Silchar
                                                                                                                           MYMENSINGH
                                                                                        J
                                                                                        Jaamuna




                         Nowabganj
                              RAJSHAHI                                                                                    DHAKA                         Kishorganj                           MOULVI BAZAR
                                                                                             na




                                                                                 Serajganj                                                                                  HABIGANJ         Moulvi Bazar
               G
                   an               Rajshahi               Natore
                                                                                SERAJGANJ                                                             KISHORGANJ
                      ge                                  NATORE                                               TANGAIL
                           s
                                                                                                                                                                            Habiganj
                                                                                                             Tangail

                                                                                                                                    GAZIPUR
                                                                        PABNA
                                                                        Pabna                                                     Gazipur     NARSINGDI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I N D IA                   24ºN
                                                                                                                                                          a

  24ºN
                                                                                                                                                        gh n


                                                                                                                                              Narsingdi            Brahmanbaria
                                                                                                                                                       Me




    I NDI A                                      KUSHTIA Kushtia
                                                                                                   Manikanj            DHAKA
                                                                                                                                                            BRAHMAN
                                                                                                                                                              BARIA
                                     Meherpur
                                                                                            Rajbari MANIKGANJ                          NARAYNGANJ
                               MEHERPUR          Chuadanga                       RAJBARI                               DHAKA            Naraynganj
                                                                                                       Faridpur                                    COMILLA
                                     CHUADANGA
                                                                  Jhenaidah
                                                                         Magura                                         MUNSHIGANJ
                                                                                               FARIDPUR                   G  a n geMunshiganj
                                                      JHENAIDAH                                                                    s
                                                                         MAGURA                                                                                Comilla



                                                                                                                                                                                                           HARI
  To                                                                                                                SARIATPUR                 CHANDPUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                      RACH
Calcutta                                                                                                               Sariatpur
                                                       Jessore                     Narail                         Madaripur                 Chandpur                                                         Khagrachhari
                                                                                                                                                                                                     KHAG

                                                                                                           MADARIPUR
                                                                                  NARAIL
                                                              JESSORE                              GOPALGANJ
                                                                                                      Gopalganj                                                                Feni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              23ºN
  23ºN
                                                          KHULNA                                                                                 LUXMIPUR
                                                                                                                                                  Luxmipur NOAKHALI          FENI
                                                                                      Khulna                              BARISAL
                                                                                                                                                                 Noakhali                                         RANGAMATI
                                                             Satkhira     KHULNA
                                                                                      Bagerhat
                                                                                                  PEROJPUR
                                                                                                   Jhalukathi                     Barisal     Bhola                 C H I T TA G O N G
                                                      SATKHIRA                                           JHALUKATHI                                                                                    Rangamati         Kaptai
  To
Calcutta                                                                                 BAGERHAT    Perojpur                                                                                                           Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                         CHITTAGONG
                                                                                                                 BARISAL
                                                                                                                                Patuakhali      BHOLA
                                                                                    a
                                                                            D e l t
                                                                                                                               PATUAKHALI                                             Chittagong
                                          s
                                G a n g e
                                                                                                                       Barguna
                                                                                                               BARGUNA                                                                                                Bandarban



                                                                                                                                                es
  22ºN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        22ºN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mt. Mowdok
                                                              ns                                                                             ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (957 m)

                                                       a r ba                                                                            G a
                                                     d
                                                 Sun                                                                        the                                                                                       BANDARBAN

                                                                                                               of                                                                                     COX’S
                                                               ths                                                                                                                                    BAZAR
                                                          Mou
                                                                                                                                                                                            Cox's Bazar
                     0 10 20 30 40 50 Kilometers

                                                                                                                           Bay of Bengal
                     0         10   20      30       40       50 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MYANMAR
           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
  21ºN     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                    21ºN
           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                     89ºE                                                    90ºE                                            91ºE                                           92ºE                     Sittwe

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MARCH 2008
