                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                           Report No: 60376-BD




                              EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER

                                           ON AN

                                        IDA CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 25.3 MILLION
                             (US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                         PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                           FOR AN

   EMERGENCY REPATRIATION AND LIVELIHOOD RESTORATION OF MIGRANT
                         WORKERS PROJECT

                                        April 19, 2011




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective March 23, 2011)
                          Currency Unit = Taka
                                 US$1 = 72.7
                                US$1.6 = SDR 1

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 ­ December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank
BGMEA   Bangladesh Garments Manufacturers' and Exporters' Association
BMET    Bureau of Manpower Employment and Training
CBO     Community Based Organization
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Report
DFID    UK Department for International Development
ERD     Economic Relations Division
ERL     Emergency Recover Loan
FM      Financial Management
GoB     Government of Bangladesh
GoJ     Government of Japan
IDA     International Development Agency
IFRC    International Federation of Red Cross
IOM     International Organization of Migration
JSDF    Japanese Social Development Fund
MDG     Millennium Development Goals
MNA     Middle East and North Africa
MEWOE   Ministry of Expatriates' Welfare and Overseas Employment
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
OPCS    Operation Policy and Country Services
PEFA    Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PFM     Public Financial Management
PIU     Project Information Unit
PKSF    Palli Karma Shahayak Foundation
RMG     Ready Made Garments
SAR     South Asia Region
SBD     Standard Bidding Documents
SPEMP   Strengthening Public Expenditure Management Program
UNHCR   United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees


                        Vice President:        Isabel M. Guerrero
                      Country Director:        Ellen A. Goldstein
                        Sector Director        John Henry Stein
                       Sector Manager:         Ming Zhang
                     Task Team Leader:         Bernice Van Bronkhorst, Zahed Khan, Iffath
                                               Sharif

                                          ii
                                       BANGLADESH
             Emergency Repatriation and Livelihood Restoration of Migrant Workers

                                                             CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                       Page
   A.  Introduction ......................................................................................................................... 1 
   B.  Emergency Challenge: Context, Strategy and Rationale for the Project ......................... 2 
   C.  Bank Response: The Project ............................................................................................... 4 
   D.  Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan ............................................................ 8 
   E.  Project Risks and Mitigating Measures ............................................................................ 10 
   F.  Terms and Conditions for Project Financing .................................................................... 11 

Annex 1: Detailed Description of Project Components ........................................................... 12 

Annex 2: Results Framework and Monitoring ........................................................................ 14 

Annex 3: Summary of Estimated Project Costs ....................................................................... 17 

Annex 4: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF) ................................................ 18 

Annex 5: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ..................................... 22 

Annex 6: Procurement Arrangements ...................................................................................... 26 

Annex 7: Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements ..................................................... 28 

Annex 8: Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members ............................................... 29 

Annex 9: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework ................................................ 31 

Annex 10: Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................................... 34 

Annex 11: Documents in Project Files ...................................................................................... 36 

Annex 12: Statement of Loans and Credits .............................................................................. 37 

Annex 13: Country at a Glance ................................................................................................. 39 

Annex 14: Maps........................................................................................................................... 42 




                                                                     iii
                                   BANGLADESH
         Emergency Repatriation and Livelihood Restoration of Migrant Workers

                                      PROJECT PAPER

                                        SOUTH ASIA
                                          SASDU

Date: April 19, 2011                        Team Leader: Bernice K. Van Bronkhorst
Country Director: Ellen A. Goldstein        Sectors: Other social services (100%)
Sector Manager/Director: John Henry Stein   Themes: Conflict prevention and post-conflict
                                            reconstruction (50%); Social safety nets (50%)
Project ID: P126263                         Environmental category: Not Required
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery      Joint IFC:
Loan                                        Joint Level:
                                Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan [X] Credit [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 40.00
Proposed terms:
                                  Financing Plan (US$m)
                 Source                       Local           Foreign           Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                               4.60             0.00            4.60
International Development Association           27.00           13.00            40.00
(IDA)
IOM                                                              29.50            29.50
Total:                                          31.60            42.50            74.10

Borrower:
People's Republic of Bangladesh


Responsible Agency:
Ministry of Expatriates' Welfare and Overseas Employment

                         Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY            11        12
Annual       20        20
Cumulative 20          40
Project implementation period: Start May 15, 2011 End: May 15, 2012
Expected effectiveness date: May 15, 2011
Expected closing date: June 30, 2012

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?

                                              iv
Ref. Section Appraisal of Project Activities                                    [X]Yes [ ] No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                    [X]Yes [ ] No
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
                                                                                [ ]Yes [X] No
Ref. Section Project Risks and Mitigating Measures
Project development objective Ref. Section Bank Response
The Project Development Objective is to support the People's Republic of Bangladesh to: (i)
repatriate its migrant workers, who have fled the ongoing conflict in Libya ("the emergency"),
from refugee camps in neighboring countries in a timely manner; and (ii) provide a one-time
cash grant as a transitional safety net measure to help them meet immediate basic needs and
commence the process of livelihood restoration.

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref. Section Bank Response
To achieve the project development objectives, the project is divided into two components:
Component 1: Repatriation activities (airlift); Component 2: Transitional Assistance, consisting
of a one-time cash-grant, following arrival in Bangladesh, as a short-term safety net measure to
support initial livelihood restoration.

Expected outcomes include: Up to 30,000 migrant workers safely repatriated to Bangladesh; the
basic needs of up to 34,000 in the period immediately following repatriation have been met.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. Section Appraisal of Project Activities
None of the proposed activities will trigger any of the Bank#s safeguard policies.




                                                v
A. Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an
International Development Association (IDA) credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh in
the form of an emergency recovery credit, pursuant to OP 8.00, in an amount equivalent to
US$40 million, to assist in the financing of the repatriation and initial reintegration/livelihood
restoration of Bangladeshi migrant workers displaced by the conflict in Libya.

2.      The proposed credit would contribute to financing the costs associated with the
repatriation and commencement of restoration of livelihoods of Bangladeshi migrant workers
who have fled Libya due to the severe deterioration of the security situation in the country. Close
to 400,000 foreign workers from various countries have fled Libya, as of April 13, 2011, many
of them without the means to return to their home countries by themselves. Relief efforts in the
camps in neighboring Tunisia and Egypt are mostly provided by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the International Federation of the Red Cross/Red
Crescent (IFRC), while the International Organization for Migration (IOM) has been the lead
agency in organizing the repatriations in close coordination with UNHCR on the ground. With
the aid of the IOM, close to 30,000 Bangladeshis have been repatriated by April 13, 20111. An
estimated 35,000 to 45,000 migrant workers from Bangladesh still remain in Libya2, and as of
April 13, around 1,000 were still in camps such as in Ra's Ajdir on the Tunisian-Libyan border
awaiting repatriation. There is a continuing, but modest, daily inflow of new refugees. However,
given the ongoing military action in Libya, a further surge of refugees could be expected.

3.      While IOM has managed to bring back most of the previously stranded workers to
Bangladesh, it lacks sufficient resources to cover the expenditure of already arranged returns.
IOM is able to fund from donor resources about 65% of the cost of air travel and all of the
related repatriations costs of an estimated 30,000 Bangladeshi returnees. The Government of
Bangladesh has formally requested the World Bank to provide IDA assistance to cover the
remaining costs of the repatriation and initial livelihood restoration of the affected migrant
workers. The IOM has agreed to continue with the repatriations without interruption on the basis
of the understanding that it will be partially reimbursed by the Government of Bangladesh after
the effectiveness of the IDA credit. This paper proposes one hundred percent retroactive
financing to enable the reimbursement of repatriation expenditures incurred on or after February
28, 2011 (i.e. the beginning of the IOM operation).

4.      The proposed project would thus help respond to this crisis situation by supporting the
Government of Bangladesh to: (i) repatriate its migrant workers who have fled the ongoing
conflict in Libya ("the emergency"), from refugee camps in neighboring countries in a timely
manner; and (ii) provide a one-time cash-grant as a safety net measure to help them meet
immediate basic needs and commence the process of livelihood restoration. The expected
outcomes of this project are: (i) the contribution to the successful repatriation of up to 30,000
migrant workers; and (ii) the distribution of a cash support grant to up to 34,000 repatriated
migrant workers (to include both IOM-assisted and non IOM-assisted returnees).
1
 An estimated additional 3-4,000 have been repatriated to Bangladesh by other means.
2
 The official number from the Bureau of Manpower, Employment and Training (BMET) in Bangladesh, of
Bangladeshi migrant workers in Libya before the crisis started was 63,000. According to IOM, this number is
underestimated and is more likely to be between 70,000 and 80,000.

                                                        1
5.      The World Bank, the Government of Bangladesh (GoB) and IOM have been
coordinating closely. Donor countries have responded to the global appeal launched by IOM to
support the initial repatriation activities organized by IOM. Donor trust funds are also being
mobilized in parallel to assist medium-term livelihood restoration activities. It has been agreed
that an existing JSDF grant would reallocate part of the grant to support the new group of
beneficiaries formed by the returnees. In parallel, submission has been initiated for a JSDF
project (of up to US$3m) covering additional activities, which is subject to approval by the
Government of Japan (GoJ). Financing from other donors and trust funds is also being sought.

B. Emergency Challenge: Context, Strategy and Rationale for the Project

6. Libya has been a host-country for many migrant workers from South Asia, East Asia, Sub-
Saharan Africa, and other countries in the Middle East and North Africa. Since the violence
broke out in Libya mid-February 2011, many of these workers have fled their residences and job
sites for security reasons, and are seeking to leave Libya and return to their homelands. The
majority of these workers are poor, and many have lost their possessions during the trek to the
border3. As such, many are not able to arrange or pay for their own transportation back to their
countries of origin. While some countries have been able to arrange for the evacuation of their
citizens from Libya, other countries such as Bangladesh have found this more challenging.
Furthermore, the lack of facilities at border camps and worsening overcrowding in the early
weeks of the crisis created a very serious situation requiring humanitarian support by the
international community.

7. Before the crisis started, the total official number of immigrants in Libya in 2010 was
estimated at 683,0004. It is likely that this number underestimates the actual stock which some
put as high as 2.5 million. According to IOM and UNHCR, about 110,000 people of South Asian
origin were working in Libya prior to the crisis: Approximately 70,000 Bangladeshis; 18,000
Pakistanis; 18,000 Indians; 2,000 Nepalis; and 1,200 Sri Lankans. The number of people in need
of evacuation from the Libya/Tunisia border, from the Libya/Egypt border, from inside Libya, or
from temporary third-country locations, changes constantly, and citizens from South Asian
countries account for a particularly large share. Given the recent escalation of the conflict in
Libya, a second surge of refugees is highly probable.

8. While the GoB seeks to guarantee the civil protection of Bangladeshi workers through their
repatriation, it also intends to provide some support for their reintegration and livelihood
restoration. Bangladesh recorded remarkable social and economic progress since the 1990s and
achieved steady economic growth of 5 to 6 percent annually during the last decade. Labor
migration and remittances associated with it has been one of two main pillars of economic
growth and poverty reduction. Flexible deployment and skill development of the labor force
remains a lynchpin for accelerating growth in the future.




3
    Due to robbery and theft along the route to the border.
4
    Migration and Remittances Factbook, 2011.

                                                              2
9. According to recent World Bank research5, overseas migration conveys substantial benefits
to families as measured by household consumption, use of modern agricultural inputs, and level
of household savings. In 2008, around 5.8 million workers were employed overseas; remittance
flows amounted to around 10% of GDP. Bangladesh is now among the top ten remittance-
receiving countries globally. Almost two-thirds of Bangladesh's remittances originate from the
Middle East and North Africa, followed by the United States. Returns to overseas employment
are relatively high because of wage differentials even after adjusting for differences in cost of
living. As a result, migrants are able to finance not only essential current consumption but also
investments that contribute to permanent income gains for household members who remain at
home inside Bangladesh. This has contributed to a steady decline in the poverty rate.

10. The recent crisis in Libya presents a significant shock to the income of Bangladeshi migrants
and their families. Of the estimated 70-80,000 Bangladeshis working in Libya, around 34,000
have returned home since the outbreak of the crisis. They are mostly unskilled and semi-skilled
workers who support their poor families For those who have only recently migrated, this crisis is
threatening livelihoods not only because of the loss of income to support their families and
themselves, but also because of the potential increase in debts as the situation renders them
unable to repay outstanding balances.

11. Migrant workers are generally recruited by private recruitment firms who supply labor to
businesses under an explicit time-bound contract. Typically, the upfront cost of securing
employment abroad is high. For the poor the burden of financing agent fees, air fare, visa fees
and other costs can be considerable. A majority of migrants borrow at high interest rates or sell
productive assets such as land to migrate. Most migrants manage to recoup the initial costs of
migration subject to the length of their stay. According to an IOM 2009 survey, the average
Bangladeshi pays about US$3,150 to migrate to the Middle East and North Africa, covering
costs of travel and other service charges imposed by intermediaries. The average earnings per
year are about US$3,690, or about US$22,100 in total for an average stay of six years. Sixty
percent of the total income earned is generally remitted back. About one-third of the remainder
must be used to service debt, most heavily within the first two or three years of the stay. 
Newspaper reports document systematic malpractice on the part of recruiting agencies. Besides
charging abnormally high processing fees, a number of these agencies have provided false
information to aspirant migrant workers regarding their job contract, wages, tenure, and benefits.


12. The GoB is facing the same logistical difficulties to repatriate the workers as other
governments. However, unlike many of them, it is facing a particularly large number of migrant
workers to be repatriated at once, with high costs of long-haul flights. While there have been
some repatriations carried out through the national carrier Biman, the GoB has so far extensively
relied on external resources: UNHCR, IFRC and several NGOs for basic assistance on the
ground (water, medical and other vital services provision) and mostly on IOM for actual
repatriation operations. IOM's activities have been partly financed by the international


5
 Sharma and Zaman (2009). "Who migrates overseas and is it worth their while? An assessment of household survey data from
Bangladesh." Journal of Developing Areas forthcoming (Policy Research Working Paper 5018)


                                                            3
community6. To avoid disruptions in repatriation, IOM has continued operations even as
financial resources have been exhausted and bills have mounted. Based on their current
repatriation activities, IOM estimates the average cost of repatriating a Bangladeshi worker from
Libya at US$1,5007, of which US$1,260 is air fare and the rest for assistance in the transit camps
and overhead charges. This amount does not include reintegration costs once in Bangladesh. The
GoB plans to use the proposed IDA credit to reimburse and continue repatriation activities
without any disruption, and to provide US$775 for a one-time cash grant per returnee to enable
them to meet immediate basic needs and partial reintegration expenses. This is the equivalent of
about two and half months of the average salary earned by migrant workers in the Middle East
and North Africa. The GoB also intends to support medium-term job placement/training and self-
employment through an ongoing Japanese Social Development Fund (JSDF) grant, and potential
additional financing from JSDF and other bilateral or multilateral donors.

C. Bank Response: The Project
Project Development Objective

13.     The Project Development Objective is to support the People's Republic of Bangladesh to:
(i) repatriate its migrant workers, who have fled the ongoing conflict in Libya ("the emergency"),
from refugee camps in neighboring countries in a timely manner; and (ii) provide a one-time
cash grant as a transitional safety net measure to help them meet immediate basic needs and
commence the process of livelihood restoration.

Instrument Choice

The Bank team considered different options for financing this emergency operation, including
the possibility of direct budget support, and a Bank-executed Project Advance to directly
contract IOM. The most efficient instrument for this emergency credit was considered an
Emergency Recovery Loan. Additional financing will be provided by the GoB, as well as Bank-
administered trust fund grants.

Summary of Project Components

To achieve the project development objective, the project is divided into two components:

Component 1: Repatriation of migrant workers to their home country (US$ 12.6 million)

14. This component will finance the cost of airfare of 10,000 returnees or the equivalent of one
third of the travel costs associated with the repatriation of about 30,000 migrant Bangladeshi
workers from camps in Tunisia and Egypt to Bangladesh. The other two thirds will be covered
by donor contributions to IOM.


6
  Since the onset of the Libya refugee crisis, IOM has made two Global Flash Appeals for a total of US$159
million. As of April 18, it has received pledged support from donors for about US$62 million, or less than half of
the needed total. These resources are not specifically earmarked for Bangladesh, but need to cover returnees from a
wide variety of countries.
7
  All inclusive of the per pax cost of assistance on the ground, the air chartered transportation ($1,260), staff and
office cost, etc.

                                                          4
Component 2: Transitional Assistance (US$26.5 million)

15. Under this component, the IOM will: i) set up the basic administrative elements of an
efficient cash transfer system including the design and implementation of a public information
campaign (in coordination with the GoB); and ii) distribute a one-time cash allowance of
US$775 per person to up to 34,000 Bangladeshi returnees from Libya or the "eligible
beneficiaries" as per the operational procedure agreed by the Government of Bangladesh with
the Bank. The purpose of this allowance is to cover immediate needs and partial expenses
associated with their reintegration and commence the process of livelihood restoration. Given
that a majority of the beneficiaries have already returned, the implementing agency will ensure
an adequate public information campaign to inform returnees regarding their eligibility for this
cash allowance.

16. In parallel, further medium-term labor market reinsertion of migrant workers at home and
abroad will be supported through trust fund resources. These activities will utilize US$ 2.7
million through an ongoing JSDF grant and an additional US$ 3 million to be sought from the
JSDF. The detailed design is still under discussion. It would offer a menu of options for those
workers who require further assistance for livelihood restoration activities. These would focus on
both improving employability at home and facilitating migration abroad and could include:
(i)self-employment via microenterprise loan with a focus on strengthening non-financial support
services such as skill training, and market access; (ii) employment in the Ready Made Garments
(RMG) industry via training and skills matching; (iii) safe migration services provided through
community based organizations to improve conditions for migration by addressing information
needs, providing necessary skills training, and helping to make the migration process more
transparent and safe; and (iv) subsidized financing for further migration via select time-bound
subsidies. This would involve selecting applicants from returning workers from Libya,
particularly those who have returned after less than two years of stay, to be placed on a priority
list for placement in other overseas markets.

Eligibility for Processing under OP/BP 8.0

17. This project is an Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL) that will be processed under Operational
Policy/Bank Procedures 8.00 in response to the outbreak of the conflict in Libya and the
resulting refugee crisis in February 2011. OP/BP 8.00 sets out the Bank's policy on rapid
response to crises and emergencies, including its policy as regards the financing of relief
activities. The Legal Opinion on Peace-Building, Security and Relief Issues under the Bank's
Policy Framework for Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies, dated March 22, 2007
("Legal Opinion"), expands on the pronouncements of OP 8.00 and explains the conditions
under which the Bank can finance activities of a relief nature.

18. Legal and Policy Basis. OP 8.00 states, and the Legal Opinion reiterates, that, in response
to a member country's request, the Bank may support, in partnership with other donors, an
integrated emergency recovery program that includes activities in areas outside its traditional
core competencies, such as relief. OP 8.00, according to the Legal Opinion, also reflects the
position that a continuum exists between relief and recovery stages in emergency responses; and
the Bank may provide assistance in support of, inter alia, the establishment and/or preservation

                                                5
of human, institutional and/or social capital, including the economic reintegration of vulnerable
groups. OP 8.00 clarifies that activities that are part of a government's transitional safety net
program, including reintegration packages extended to vulnerable groups, would be eligible for
financing. The workers' repatriation is part of a continuum leading to their reintegration and
restoration of their livelihood, so the Bank may finance the costs of repatriation/transport. Under
the proposed operation, the migrant workers, after arriving in Dhaka, would receive cash grants
to help them reintegrate and commence the process of livelihood restoration. As part of a
government's transitional safety net program, reintegration packages extended to vulnerable
groups such as this one are eligible for Bank financing.

Consistency with Country Strategy (CAS or ISN)

19.     The Bangladesh CAS (FY11-14) supports efforts to continue the enormous social gains
and poverty reduction Bangladesh has managed to achieve in recent years. Given the important
contribution migrant workers make by their remittances in reducing their families' poverty and
thereby in supporting economic growth in Bangladesh, this emergency operation contributes to a
core priority of the Bangladesh CAS. The grants provided for the restoration of their livelihoods
when returning to their home country, will further mitigate the potential of beneficiaries' families
falling back into poverty.

Expected Outcomes

Expected outcomes include: about 30,000 migrant workers safely repatriated to Bangladesh; the
basic needs of up to 34,000 in the period immediately following repatriation have been met.

Appraisal of Project Activities

20. Human/social rights and beneficiaries. The project will help the GoB provide immediate
assistance to Bangladeshi workers by financing the repatriation costs of returnees and assist in
their reintegration with an immediate cash allowance. In parallel, livelihood restoration activities
will be conducted with the support of trust funds, to improve employability at home and facilitate
safe migration abroad for work.

21. Logistics and technical aspects. The repatriation operations started on February 28, 2011,
and are run by UNHCR (transit camps) and IOM (repatriations). This is partially financed by the
international community with donations from the global appeal (not earmarked for Bangladesh
only). IOM has been effectively using both chartered and commercial flights, with a capacity of
approximately 300-450 passengers, to repatriate workers from various locations in a short
amount of time. The logistics and technical capacities of IOM in the repatriation activities have
proven to be efficient.

22. Institutional and financial management arrangements. The Bureau of Manpower
Employment and Training (BMET) in the Ministry of Expatriates' Welfare and Overseas
Employment (MEWOE) will serve as implementing agency for the proposed project. It is
engaged in human resources development and deals with migration processes, including looking
after the welfare of Bangladeshi workers abroad. BMET, on behalf of the MEWOE, will be the
implementing agency for both component 1 and 2. A Designated Account will be opened in BDT

                                                 6
in a commercial bank or financial institution acceptable to IDA and BMET/MEWOE will
contract directly with IOM to implement the repatriation and cash transfer activities on the
ground.

23. Retroactive financing. Given the urgency of the activities, expenditures occurring on or
after February 28, 2011 shall be eligible for up to 100 percent retroactive financing of the total
amount of the proposed project. Eligible expenditures must be in compliance with the World
Bank's policies and procedures.

24. Procurement arrangements. Given the exceptional circumstances, the main contract will be
a single-source contract between the GoB and IOM. The simplified procurement plan for the
IDA credit only has this one contract, and the procurement risk is considered low.

25. Environmental safeguards. The proposed project is classified as Environmental Category
C. No adverse environmental impacts have been identified and no further Environmental
assessment action is required.

26. Social safeguards. The project is not expected to have any significant adverse or irreversible
social impacts. The project will support and ensure only voluntary repatriation of stranded
Bangladeshis. Therefore it will not trigger OP/BP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement as clarified in
the OP: "The essential criteria for the application of the policy are (a) the resettlement being
involuntary; (b) the project being location specific; and (c) the taking of land or restriction of
access being for a Bank-financed investment. The policy does not apply when these criteria are
not met". In addition, OP 4.12 Natural Disasters, War, or Civil Strife (endnote 6) states that "this
policy does not cover refugees from natural disasters, war, or civil strife (see OP/BP 8.00,
Emergency Recovery Assistance)." The project will not trigger land acquisition or displacement
of communities. Finally, the project is also not expected to trigger OP 4.10 Indigenous People as
no significant/specific impacts on indigenous people are expected to result from the project.

27. Component 1 of the project will rely on the operating procedures of the IOM (implementing
agency) for repatriation. The Bank team has reviewed the IOM procedures and found them to be
in line with the Bank's safeguard policies and procedures. Given that the IOM is a UN affiliated
agency, it operates under UN guidelines for voluntary repatriation and reintegration. For the
purpose of component 1 of this project, UN protocols will apply.


28. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design. The proposed project design takes
into account lessons learned from the World Bank's experience with emergency response
operations and from previous operations in Bangladesh.

       Strong coordination with the international donor community and with the Client:
       The World Bank has consulted and been consulted early on by the UN agencies, the
       multilateral and bilateral donors, and the humanitarian organizations. This has been done
       in order to identify the urgent needs and financing gap. As the situation in Libya and in
       the camps is changing constantly, continuous coordination has been taking place between
       the World Bank, IOM, and the GoB as well as the international donor community.


                                                 7
       Simplified objectives and clear scope of activities: the proposed project consists of two
       very simple components with clearly defined activities. In terms of targeting,
       beneficiaries are a clearly identified group. The repatriation logistics will be handled
       through a single contract between GoB and IOM.
       Capacity and involvement of the Implementing agency: After close consultation with
       the GoB, it has been agreed that the implementing agency for both Components 1 and 2
       will be BMET under MEWOE. BMET has expressed strong interest in taking the lead on
       the proposed project, which directly falls under BMET/MEWOE's mandate of human
       resources development, migration process, including looking after the welfare of
       Bangladeshi migrant workers. In terms of financial management and disbursement
       capacity, BMET does not have the adequate competences. It is currently helped by the
       Directorate of Technical Education (DTE under MEWOE as well) for other ongoing
       projects under its responsibility. For the proposed project, BMET will hire with separate
       trust fund resources, a financial management specialist experienced in IDA procedures to
       handle the financial management and disbursement activities.

29. Retroactive financing and single-source contract with IOM. Given the emergency context
and urgency of the operation, allowing 100% retroactive financing, as an exception to the limit
set out in OP 8.00, para. 7(d) is the best way to enable the GoB to provide partial reimbursement
to IOM for their incurred costs. It also allowed the IOM to continue with the repatriations of
Bangladeshi nationals on a `good faith' basis. This was critical to avoid disruption in the
emergency repatriation activities and has been approved by the Acting Regional Vice President
in consultation with the Vice President, OPCS, as required under OP 6.00. A direct contract with
IOM has been identified as the most effective procurement method for repatriation and has been
cleared by OPRC. This complies with IDA's procurement guidelines (January 2011) as IOM is
uniquely qualified and the largest international organization for migration issues, with a long
history of emergency repatriations and, through its ongoing operations, a proven capacity to
successfully repatriate Bangladeshi migrant workers from Libya. They also have shown to be a
leading agency in assisting reintegration and livelihood restoration activities. Furthermore,
IOM's overhead charges are low due to their not-for-profit status and their cost figures for
repatriation of Bangladeshi workers are reasonable. The proposed IDA credit will only finance
one third of the costs for the airfares of about 30,000 returnees. The remaining costs are shared
between IOM the international donor community and the GoB.

D. Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan

30. Implementing Agency and institutional arrangements. The proposed project will have
one implementing agency: the Bureau of Manpower Employment and Training (BMET) attached
to the Ministry of Expatriates' Welfare and Overseas Employment (MEWOE). BMET will
contract with IOM for Components 1 and 2.

31. Project costs and financing plan. The project will be financed by US$ 40 million IDA
credit. The total cost is estimated at US$ 74.1 million. For Component 1, it has been agreed that
for about 30,000 Bangladeshi workers to be repatriated, one third of the cost of the air fares for
IOM will be financed by the GoB using the IDA credit; the other two thirds, as well as the cost
of assistance in the transit camps, will be financed by IOM and other donors or organizations.
For Component 2, it has been agreed that all (cash transfers for immediate support) will be
                                                8
financed by the GoB using the IDA credit. US$150,000 will be specified in the contract with
IOM for the public information campaign and other administrative costs.

32. Table. Project costs in US$ million, and financing plan per component

                                           Total     IDA      IOM       GoB/Biman
 Component 1: Repatriation Costs           46.7      12.6     29.5         4.6
 Component 2: Reintegration costs          26.5      26.5
 Contingency                                0.9       0.9
 TOTAL COST (US$ m)                        74.1      40.0      29.5            4.6


Financial management and disbursement.

33. Fund Flow and Disbursement Arrangement. The disbursement methods that may be used
under the IDA financing would include Reimbursement, Advance and Direct Payment.
Reimbursement / Direct Payment is likely to be used mainly in claiming the cost of repatriation.
The minimum value of application for Reimbursement / Direct Payment would be BDT 70
million. A Designated Account may be opened in BDT in a commercial bank or financial
institution to facilitate quick disbursement of cash allowances if needed. The ceiling for the
Designated Account would be BDT 450 million. A spreadsheet-supported Manual Accounting
System will be used for accounting and financial reporting for the financial transactions of the
operation. Simplified, one page, Interim Un-audited Financial Reports (IUFRs) will be submitted
to IDA each quarter, not later than 30 days from the end of a quarter, providing only the source
and use of funds. This format will be agreed between the Bank and Government of Bangladesh
before the negotiations.

34. External Audit. The Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate of the Office of the
Comptroller and Auditor General will audit the semi-annual financial statements of the operation
for the periods ending on June 30 and December 31. BMET will be responsible for preparation
of the project financial statements. Audit will be undertaken in the project office, and audit for
repatriation costs and cash allowances will be based on the documents submitted by IOM to the
Government. The contract between the Government and IOM will include the provision of an
audit of IOM's records by the Government of Bangladesh as related to activities under the
contract; and the Bank will also reserve the right for the same. Audited Financial Statements will
be submitted to IDA within three months from the end of each half year in June and December.
The following audit reports will be monitored in the Audit Report Compliance System.



      Implementing/              Audit Type                  Auditor                 Deadline
       Coordinating
         Agency
     BMET                Audit of Project's Semi-    Foreign Aided Project      September 30
                         Annual Financial            Audit Directorate under        and
                         Statements (for component   Comptroller & Auditor      March 31
                         1 and 2 of the project)     General

                                                9
As per Bank's Access to Information policy, the audit reports for the project shall be placed on
the Bank's external website. There are no outstanding audit reports due from BMET nor any
declared ineligible expenditures on Bank projects implemented by BMET.

Procurement

35. For Components 1 and 2 of the project, there will be only one contract covering the air-fare
of about 10,000 Bangladeshi migrant workers from Libya, as well as cash allowance for up to
34,000 Bangladeshi returnees. The contract will have provisions for retroactively financing
eligible expenditures already incurred by IOM in repatriating Bangladeshi returnees. Since IOM
will be contracted directly by MEWOE/BMET and will be handling the tasks under the only
contract within the proposed project financed by IDA, the procurement capacity of either
MEWOE or BMET has no impact on project implementation. From a contract management
perspective regarding payment for airfare and cash allowance to IOM, certain risk mitigation
measures such as submission of specific relevant documentary evidences are put in place in the
payment conditions of the contract. The procurement arrangements and a simplified
procurement plan are described in as Annex 5 to this document.

36. Single Source Contract: The only effective partnership that operates humanitarian
repatriation at present is UNHCR/IOM. While UNHCR organizes the arrival and provides basic
services at the camps with support from different NGOs, IOM has focused on repatriation from
the camps to home countries. The option of contracting directly with IOM has been identified as
the most cost-efficient solution.

37. Bank supervision. The Bank team is relying on the UNHCR/IOM protocol and procedures
which have been reviewed by the relevant safeguards staff to meet Bank requirements for
activities occurring outside of Bangladesh. Once the workers arrive in Bangladesh, Bank
supervision will be carried out by members from the team. Supervision of some flights arriving
in Dhaka has already started. Supervision activities will particularly look at fiduciary aspects of
the cash grants.

38. Closing date of the proposed project is planned for June 30, 2012 (end of FY12).
Repatriation of about 30,000 migrant workers is expected to be completed by mid-May 2011.
Cash grants financed by the credit will be completed by June, 2012.

E. Project Risks and Mitigating Measures

39. New surge of migrant workers seeking repatriation. The GoB is looking at various
sources of finance for the repatriation of Bangladeshi migrant workers ­ including this proposed
IDA credit. IOM has issued an appeal for further donor funding, but as of now, insufficient funds
have been pledged. Should the situation in Libya deteriorate further it is likely that the available
funding will be insufficient to cover the costs of surge of additional required repatriations. While
IOM's contract with the GoB will reflect this possibility and leaves a US$0.9 million
contingency for potential future repatriations, this may not be sufficient. To respond to this
potential surge of repatriations there are three possible sources of additional funding: i) donor
funding; ii) IDA may be reallocated from slow-disbursing projects in the portfolio; and iii)

                                                10
additional IDA resources from the IDA16 emergency window. In addition, the system
established under this emergency operation for repatriation and initial livelihood restoration will
already be put in place. This will allow any further assistance to be implemented in a fast and
effective way.

40. Fiduciary aspects. Despite BMET's strong capacity on the ground their financial
management, procurement, and disbursement capacities, are inadequate to handle financial
management and disbursement activities in compliance with the Bank's policies and guidelines.
A financial management specialist experienced in IDA's financial management and
disbursement procedures will be hired with funds from a TA trust fund. Fiduciary risk for the
one-time cash grant as implemented by IOM for the IOM-assisted returnees is relatively low as
identification of eligible beneficiaries is relatively straightforward and grants would be issued
through a bank. For the non-IOM assisted returnees records are also available within the BMET
and a strong system of internal controls will be designed, subject to the Bank's approval.

41. Difficulties reaching all eligible beneficiaries for cash allowance. A public information
campaign will be organized by IOM and BMET to inform the returnees that they are eligible for
the US$775 cash allowance. The claimants will have to prove their identity (which will be
matched to lists of returnees) and there will be a specific time window during which they can
make their claim. It is uncertain how many of the eligible beneficiaries will successfully claim
the cash allowance.

F. Terms and Conditions for Project Financing

42. The proposed project will be an IDA credit operation with standard IDA terms for
Bangladesh.

Credit conditions and covenants

43. Prior to negotiations: None

44. Conditions for Board presentation: None

45. Conditions for effectiveness: The IOM contract has been executed on behalf of the Recipient
and IOM.

46. Condition for disbursement: No withdrawal shall be made under Category (2) (Transitional
Assistance Grants) until the Transitional Assistance Guidelines have been prepared and
submitted to the Association, in form and substance satisfactory to the Recipient and the
Association.




                                                11
                    Annex 1: Detailed Description of Project Components

 BANGLADESH: Emergency repatriation and livelihood restoration of migrant workers

The proposed project consists of two components:

Component 1: Repatriation of migrant workers to their home country (US$ 12.6 Million)

1. This component will finance the cost of airfare of 10,000 returnees or the equivalent of one
   third of the travel costs associated with the repatriation of about 30,000 migrant Bangladeshi
   workers from camps in Tunisia and Egypt to Bangladesh. The other two thirds will be
   covered by donor contributions to IOM. The activities of this component will include: (i)
   transport, and (iii) post-arrival handling. The proposed IDA credit will finance one third of
   the cost of airfare, and contributions from other donors will cover the remaining costs.

2. The Pre-departure phase is financed and implemented by UNHCR/IOM and includes the
   identification of migrant workers from Bangladesh among the numbers of migrant workers
   exiting Libya on the border. This first screening process is followed by an evaluation of
   whether the workers actually want to repatriate home. If this is the case, the workers are
   transferred by bus to the camps, where their repatriation process is organized. Upon arrival in
   the camps, their eligibility and actual willingness to return to their home countries is double-
   checked by camp IOM staff. On-site consular services are organized by IOM, especially for
   those workers who have no documents to identify themselves. The services also assist with
   the issuance of emergency travel documentation for the workers to return home.

3. Transport: after processing the initial steps under the pre-departure phase, beneficiaries are
   checked for their fitness to travel and if cleared, the airlift will be organized. This includes
   transport from the camps to the airport and the actual airlift to return to the home country.
   For this purpose, IOM has organized chartered flights. Safety of the transfer services is
   assured.

4. Post-arrival: IOM is charged with gathering contact details of the safely repatriated workers.

Component 2: Transitional Assistance - One-time cash-grant (US$26.5 Million)

5. Under this component, IOM will: i) set up the administrative elements of a basic cash
   transfer system and organize a public information campaign in collaboration with the GoB
   (US$ 150,000); and ii) help GoB to organize the distribution of a one-time cash grant of
   US$775 per person to up to 34,000 Bangladeshi returnees or the "eligible
   beneficiaries."(US$ 26,350,000). The purpose of this allowance is to cover immediate basic
   needs and partial expenses associated with the initial restoration of their livelihoods. This is
   equivalent to about two and half months of the average migrant worker's pay in the Middle
   East and North Africa.

6. IOM will help GoB set up the administrative elements of a basic cash transfer system that
   includes (i) an outreach effort to ensure those who might be eligible know about program, its
   benefits, and how to apply, (ii) payment system (iii) monitoring system to provide feedback

                                                12
on potential improvements in the execution of the cash payment, as well as fiduciary
safeguards, and (iv) grievance and redress options to correct individual-specific errors. For
example, given that a majority of the beneficiaries have already returned, the implementing
agency will ensure an adequate public information campaign to inform returnees regarding
their eligibility of this cash allowance. The cash payment will be made via a local disbursing
bank that has branches or a network across the country. A list of all beneficiaries shall be
placed on the website of the Ministry of Expatriate Welfare and Overseas Employment and
IOM for better transparency and accountability. The detailed operational procedures to
identify and record payment of US$775 to each beneficiary are still to be designed.
Therefore, the design and the Bank's agreement of these operational procedures or guidelines
will be a condition of disbursement for component 2.




                                           13
                         Annex 2: Results Framework and Monitoring
 BANGLADESH: Emergency repatriation and livelihood restoration of migrant workers

Project Development                PDO Indicators                     Use of Outcome Monitoring
Objective
The Project Development            1. Repatriated migrant             To assess effectiveness of the
Objective is to support the        workers who arrived safely at      repatriation process.
Recipient to: (i) repatriate its   the airport in Dhaka (total
migrant workers, who have          number)
fled the ongoing conflict in
Libya ("the emergency"),           2. Repatriated migrant        To assess whether immediate
from refugee camps in              workers who received the one- basic needs were covered.
neighboring countries in a         time cash grant (number and
timely manner; and (ii)            % of total).
provide a one-time cash grant
as a safety net measure to help
them meet immediate basic
needs and commence the
process of livelihood
restoration.

                                   Intermediate
Intermediate Outcome for           Outcome Indicators for
each Component                     Components
Component 1: Repatriation          4. Percent of repatriated          To ensure facilitation of
    Migrant workers who            migrant workers who have           reintegration process.
      seek to repatriate           proof of photo ID
      undergo repatriation
      process
Component 2: Cash-Grant            5. TV and newspaper                To assess whether access to
    Migrant workers who            advertisements have been           information about the cash
      arrive in home country       launched to inform about cash      grand has been provided
      receive one-time cash        grants and livelihood activities   widely
      grant
                                   6. Cash transfer system            To ensure facility for cash-
                                   established through banks          grant payment in place




                                                 14
Monitoring and Evaluation Plan

                                                              Target Values                         Data Collection and Reporting

                             Baseline End of           June         Dec.       June 2012     Frequ-        Data                  Respon-
                                      Project          2011         2011                     ency of       Collection            sibility for
                                                                                             Reports       Instruments           Data
                                                                                                                                 Collection

Project Outcome Indicators: The Project Development Objective is to support the Recipient to: (i) repatriate its migrant workers fleeing
the ongoing conflict in Libya ("the emergency") from refugee camps in neighboring countries in a timely manner; and (ii) a one-time cash
grant as a transitional safety net measure to help them meet immediate basic needs and commence the process of livelihood restoration.

1. Repatriated migrant       ~29,800     30,000        30,000          -        -            Weekly        Copy of official      IOM
workers who arrived safely   (estimate                                                                     manifest of
at the airport in Dhaka      already                                                                       passengers or list
(total number)               repa-                                                                         of passengers
                             triated)

2. Repatriated migrant       -           Unknown                                -            Weekly        Bank list of          IOM/BMET
workers who received the                 share                                                             identified eligible
one-time cash grant                                                                                        beneficiaries and
through bank transfer                                                                                      invoice of
(number and % of total).                                                                                   payment received


Component 1:
Repatriation

4. Percent of repatriated    Not         100%          100%            -        -            Once          List of repatriated   IOM/BMET
migrant workers who have     available                                                                     workers from
proof of photo ID                                                                                          Libya with proof
                                                                                                           of identify and
                                                                                                           address on the



                                                                  15
                                                                                    passenger lists

Component 2:
Reintegration

5. TV and newspaper          n/a   Proof of actual   Proof of     -      -   Once   Proof of actual      IOM/BMET
advertisements have been           campaign          actual                         campaign
launched to inform about           launched and      campaign
cash grants and livelihood         publication       launched and
activities                         dates             publication
                                                     dates

6. Cash transfer system      -     System is in      System is in    -   -   Once   Proof of system in   IOM/BMET
established through banks          place and         place and                      place and
                                   operational       operational                    functioning




                                                                16
                       Annex 3: Summary of Estimated Project Costs
 BANGLADESH: Emergency repatriation and livelihood restoration of migrant workers


1.      The project will be financed by $US40 million IDA credit. Total cost is estimated at US
$72.5 million. For Component 1, it has been agreed that for up to 30,000 Bangladeshi workers to
be repatriated, one third of the cost of the air fare will be financed by the GoB using the IDA
credit; the remaining two thirds, as well as the cost associated to the assistance on the ground,
will be financed by IOM and other donors or organization. For Component 2, it has been agreed
that all cash transfers for both IOM and non IOM-assisted returnees (up to 34,000) will be
financed by the GoB using the IDA credit.


2.     Table. Project costs in US$ million, and financing plan per component

                                          Total      IDA      IOM      GoB/Biman
 Component 1: Repatriation Costs          46.7       12.6     29.5        4.6
 Component 2: Cash Grant costs            26.5       26.5
 Contingency                               0.9        0.9
 TOTAL COST (US$ m)                       74.1       40.0     29.5          4.6




                                               17
                                              Annex 4: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF)
                            BANGLADESH: Emergency repatriation and livelihood restoration of migrant workers


                                                                    Project Development Objective(s) 
 
     47.      The PDO is to assist the GoB to  (i) repatriate its migrant workers who have fled the ongoing conflict in Libya ("the emergency"), from 
     refugee camps in neighboring countries in a timely manner; and (ii) provide a onetime cash grant as a transitional safety net measure to help 
     them meet immediate basic needs commence livelihood restoration. 

      
  
     PDO Level Results             1.   Repatriated migrant workers who arrived safely at the airport in Dhaka (total number)
     Indicators:                   2.   Repatriated migrant workers who received the onetime cash grant (number and % of total) 
  


                                                                                                                                              Timing for 
                                                       Risk                                                   Proposed Mitigation 
                           Risk Category                                  Risk Description                                                   Mitigation: 
                                                      Rating                                                      Measures 
                                                                                                                                             Prep/Impl.8 
                  1. Project Stakeholder Risks                                                            
                                                     MI          a) The GoB is looking at various        a) OP8.00 Procedures have           X       X 
                                                                 sources to finance the                  been triggered to respond to                 
                                                                 repatriation and reintegration of       the emergency needs of the                   
                                                                 Bangladeshi migrant workers ­           GoB. Project preparation has                 
                                                                 including the IDA credit. IOM           been accelerated.                            
                                                                 has issued an appeal for further                                                     
                                                                 donor funding, and bilateral and 
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                 multilateral donors may yet 
                       1.1 Stakeholder                                                                   b) IOM's contract with the GoB               
                                                                 provide additional grants. In 
                                                                                                         reflects this possibility and                
                                                                 case the financing gap is covered 
                                                                 to a larger extent than expected        allows repatriation of about                 
                                                                 by other donors, the GoB may            30,000 migrant workers and                   
                                                                 not immediately need the full           leaves some contingency for                  
                                                                 amount of the $40million IDA            potential future repatriations.              
                                                                 credit.                                 In the event the needs were                  
                                                                 b) The proposed credit will be          much larger, IDA along with                  
                                                                 insufficient to cover the costs of a    the GoB and other donor                      

8
     Please see paras. 14-16 of the guidance note for details on filing in timing for mitigation measures.


                                                                                    18
                                                                                                               Timing for 
                            Risk                                                Proposed Mitigation 
        Risk Category                         Risk Description                                                Mitigation: 
                           Rating                                                   Measures 
                                                                                                              Prep/Impl.8 
                                     possibly large surge of additional    partners will explore 
                                     future repatriations.                 possibilities for additional 
                                                                           financing.   
                           MI        BMET's implementation capacity        TAtrust fund resources will 
                                     is limited. Though, it is             support consultancy assistance 
                                     sufficiently staffed, it does not     to BMET for FM and 
                                     have adequate capacity to handle      disbursements.   IOM, who has 
                                     FM and disbursements.                 special skills, experience, and 
                                                                           the governance system in 
                                     Component 2 of cash transfer          relocation of refugees and 
                                     particularly poses a risk of fraud
                                                                           migrant workers, will also be 
                                     and corruption.
                                                                           responsible for managing the 
3. Implementing Agency
                                                                           cash grants through the 
Risks (including FM & PR                                                                                     X      X
                                                                           banking system.  Adoption of 
Risks)
                                                                           the operating procedures will 
                                                                           be a condition of disbursement 
                                                                           under Component 2.  
                                                                             
                                                                           The IOM/GoB will also launch a 
                                                                           communication campaign 
                                                                           informing eligible migrant 
                                                                           workers of their eligibility for 
                                                                           the cash grants.  
4. Project Risks                                                            
                           MI        Though the project design is          The Bank will continue to 
                                     simple with only two components       support the GoB efforts in 
                                     (repatriation and onetime cash        preparing the medium term 
                                     grants as safety net measure),        livelihood restoration program 
                                     there is risk of delays in the        with possible support from 
    4.1 Design 
                                     preparation of a parallel medium      JSDF and other sources, in          X        X 
 
                                     term livelihood restoration           order to help ensure that the 
                                     program                               medium term livelihood 
                                                                           restoration program can start 
                                                                           soon after the repatriation is 
                                                                           complete.  


                                                        19
                                                                                                                     Timing for 
                               Risk                                                  Proposed Mitigation 
         Risk Category                           Risk Description                                                   Mitigation: 
                              Rating                                                     Measures 
                                                                                                                    Prep/Impl.8 
                              MI        At the repatriation stage, there is     Bank team has found the 
                                        risk that (i) workers could             IOM/UNHCR protocols to be in 
                                        potentially be repatriated to           line with Bank guidelines and 
                                        Bangladesh against their will, and      policies. 
                                        (ii) some workers may be                The Bank project team 
    4.2 Social &                        repatriated even though not             members from the Dhaka 
        Environmental                   being eligible (e.g. they do not        office will go from time to time    X       X 
                                        hold Bangladesh citizenship).           to the arrivals hall in Dhaka 
                                                                                airport to speak to the 
                                        There is risk that all eligible         returnees. 
                                        repatriated workers do not               
                                        receive the reinsertion grants to       A communication campaign 
                                        which they are entitled.                will be launched. 
                                        Donor support in response to an         The IOM has launched a new 
                                        appeal by the IOM has been              appeal for donor support.  
                                        important so far in repatriating         
                                        the migrant workers affected by         The Bank will continue to 
                                        the Libya crisis to their home          consult with the UNHCR, IOM 
                                        countries (not only Bangladesh)         and donor partners and GoB 
                                        but there is need for continued         on the evolving situation and 
                                        donor support in particular if          ways to help mobilize financing 
    4.3 Program and Donor                                                                                                   X 
                                        there were to be a surge in             as needed for handling the 
                                        additional workers fleeing Libya        second surge in the 
                                        because of the continuing crisis.       Bangladeshis to be repatriated 
                                        As of now, there are some 35            and supported once they are 
                                        45,000 Bangladeshis in Libya and        back home (if the second surge 
                                        if they were to decide to migrate,      were to materialize).    
                                        there will be an urgent need for 
                                        additional financing.     
                              MI        There is risk that the preparation      The Bank will continue to 
                                        of a parallel medium term               support GoB efforts in 
    4.4 Delivery Quality                program dedicated to labor              preparing the medium term 
                                                                                                                    X       X 
                                        market reinsertion is delayed.          livelihood restoration program 
                                                                                with possible support from 
                                        There is also a risk of insufficient    JSDF and other sources, in 


                                                            20
                                                                                                                                   Timing for 
                                                Risk                                                 Proposed Mitigation 
                       Risk Category                              Risk Description                                                Mitigation: 
                                               Rating                                                    Measures 
                                                                                                                                  Prep/Impl.8 
                                                         financing to undertake livelihood      order to help ensure that this 
                                                         restoration activities that would      program can start soon. 
                                                         help make the reintegration of          
                                                         the repatriated workers                 
                                                         sustainable.  
 

Final Decision Meeting Rating:

                                        Risk Rating:     Risk Rating: 
     Decision Chair                     Preparation      Implementation      Date             Comments 

                                        MI               MI                             The rating of MediumI for preparation is associated with 
                                                                                        the strong commitment of the GoB for the proposed 
                                                                                        project, the emergency context resulting from a very fluid 
                                                                                        conflict situation in Libya, the possibility of delays in the 
                                                                                        preparation of a medium term livelihood restoration 
     Overall Risk                                                                       program, and inadequate financing for the livelihood 
                                                                             3/28/2011 
                                                                                        restoration program (from JSDF and other donors).    
                                                                                        The rating of MediumI for implementation reflects the 
                                                                                        fact that the project has been rapidly prepared in response 
                                                                                        to the emergency context in a rapidly changing 
                                                                                        environment, with limited implementation capacity in 
                                                                                        BMET.     




Risk Ratings scale:
1=Low (Low impact/Low likelihood)
2=ML (Low impact/High likelihood)
3= MI (High Impact/Low likelihood)
4= High (High Impact/High Likelihood)




                                                                           21
             Annex 5: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
 BANGLADESH: Emergency repatriation and livelihood restoration of migrant workers

3.       Country Public Financial Management (PFM) Environment. Bangladesh's efforts to
improve Public Financial Management (PFM) within a consistent framework over several years
have been significant. However, PFM outcomes presented a mixed picture. A Public Expenditure
and Financial Accountability (PEFA) Assessment (2005) identified many weaknesses in the
PFM systems while recognizing a process of incremental transformation in PFM policies and
institutions. A new "GoB Vision and Medium Term Rolling Action Plan" was adopted in 2006
laying out a series of second-generation PFM reforms targeting more fundamental institutional
changes and a significant upgrade of systems across various pillars of PFM. The importance of a
sound PFM system in Bangladesh has been recognized by a number of development partners,
leading to the formation of a five year multi-donor trust fund being administered by World Bank
for PFM reform titled Strengthening Public Expenditure Management Program (SPEMP). The
SPEMP is built around three key priority areas: (i) budget preparation and execution; (ii) internal
and external auditing; and (iii) legislative and public oversight. A most recent PEFA assessment
(2010) indicates that the PFM institutional framework in Bangladesh is under transition, and a
number of improvements have been implemented or are being attempted through the ongoing
SPEMP. While aggregate fiscal discipline has been maintained despite pressures placed on
public resources and development needs, management of public resources within sectors and
programs, however, needs to be strengthened ensuring more transparency and effective internal
controls to raise the level of development effectiveness and service delivery outcomes. The
ongoing reform program includes defining the role and strengthening the capacity of the line
ministries on financial management.

4.     The financial management risk at country level is therefore substantial due to weak
control environment in the country and low capacity. The mitigation measures at country level
include implementation of various reforms in PFM currently undertaken under the SPEMP.

5.      Implementing Agency: Bureau of Manpower Employment and Training (BMET):
BMET was set up by the Government in 1976 and is currently a department attached to the
Ministry of Expatriate Welfare and Overseas Employment (MEWOE). BMET is engaged in
human resources development through 38 Technical Training Centers, an Institute of Marine
Technology and 3 Apprenticeship Training Office and is performing all the functions related to
migration process including overseeing the welfare of Bangladeshi workers abroad. BMET is
providing recruitment and other services to both domestic and expatriate workers through its
Headquarters and 42 District Employment and Manpower Offices. Under this operation, BMET
will have significant responsibility of (a) contract management,(b) monitoring performance of
IOM in completing its assignment of repatriating about 30,000 Bangladeshi migrant workers
from Libya, (c) making payments to IOM; and (d) ensuring that the cash has been distributed to
up to 34,000 Bangladeshi returnees. Considering that BMET has limited FM capacity, it has
been agreed that the financial management and disbursement activities under the current
operation will be managed at BMET by hiring a financial management specialist who is well
experienced in IDA financial management and disbursement procedures with additional
resources from a TA trust fund. While this will be critical to have good record keeping for the
project, it will also facilitate an early submission of reimbursement claims to the Bank.


                                                22
6.     Brief Project Description. With the outbreak of the current crisis in Libya, many of the
migrant Bangladeshi workers who have left Libya have been stranded in camps in Egypt and
Tunisia without the means to repatriate themselves Bangladesh. IOM has been actively engaged
in supporting their repatriation but has diminishing resources. The Government of Bangladesh
(GoB) has proposed to contract IOM to financially assist the repatriation operations for these
Bangladeshi nationals; and seeks IDA financing on that purpose. Under this contract, the GoB
expects IOM to deliver the following services:


i. Component 1: Repatriation of Bangladeshi migrant workers                                     US$ 12.600,000
from Libya

IOM is required to execute the repatriation of 30,0009 migrant workers to Bangladesh in a timely
manner. The financial support provided by the proposed project is a contribution to the financing
gap that the GoB is facing and:
      includes repatriations that have been ongoing on or since February 28, 2011 through
         chartered or commercial flights at the cost of US$1,260 per passenger to Dhaka;
      does not cover any related costs or expenses associated with the organization of the
         airlift, such as transport to/from the airports, administrative overheads, or the costs
         associated with identifying and organizing the beneficiaries in the host camps.
It has been agreed that for the up to 30,000 Bangladeshi workers to be repatriated one third the
cost of the air fare will be financed by the GoB using the IDA credit; the other two thirds as well
as the cost associated to the assistance on the ground will be financed by IOM and other donors.

Progress payments will be made as claimed by IOM for specific numbers of Bangladeshi
returnees supported by the following documents: (i) flight details, (ii) copy of official manifest of
passengers with identification information; and (iii) copy of invoices submitted by the chartered
carriers to IOM, subject to certification by the Government that the services have been rendered
satisfactorily. Under the IDA financing provisions, up to 100% of the financing may be used for
retroactive financing (i.e., for repatriation of Bangladeshi migrants on or after 28 February 2011
and before the signing of this operation).

ii. Component 2: Transitional Assistance                                                        US$ 26,500,000

Under this component, IOM is requested to organize the distribution of a one-time cash
allowance of US$775 (in equivalent local currency) to up to 34,000 Bangladeshi returnees from
Libya or the "eligible beneficiaries." The purpose of this allowance is to cover any immediate
need associated with the restoration of their livelihoods. IOM will ensure a public information
campaign to inform returnees regarding their eligibility of this cash allowance. The cash payment
will be done via a local disbursing bank that has its own branches or network across the country.
9
  While the repatriation will be made for 30,000 persons, IOM will submit the agreed documents for 10,000
returnees for fulfilling the purpose of claiming reimbursement of expenses for component 1 of the project. The
documents will however need to be submitted to the Bank and confirmed by IOM for all 30,000 persons as they
would be eligible to receive the cash grant under component 2 of the project. This will also be critical from program
monitoring perspective.


                                                        23
The detailed operational procedure to identify and record payment of US$775 (in equivalent
local currency) to each beneficiary is however to be agreed between the Government of
Bangladesh and the Bank. As agreement on this operational procedure will be critical to ensure
that funds are used for intended purposes, it will be a disbursement condition that the payment
under component 2 will be released subject to Bank's agreement on such operational procedure.

iii. Contingencies                                                                 US$ 900,000

Under this component a small number of potential repatriations beyond the 30,000 can be
financed and/or additional cash grants and/or additional associated administrative costs.

 
Total amount to be allocated under the IDA Credit                         US$ 40.000.0000

7.      Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds. The project will be 100% financed by IDA,
inclusive of taxes. For purpose of IDA disbursements against Transportation Services (ie
repatriation costs under Component 1), IDA will provide 100% financing of such services for
10,000 returnees. Allocation for Transitional Assistance (ie Cash Grant under Component 2)
also includes $150,000 for public information campaign and other administrative costs.
Allocation of the IDA credit proceeds is as follows:

Allocation Category:
Category 1: Transportation Services                                    $12.6 m
Category 2: Transitional Assistance                                    $26.5 m
Category 3: Unallocated                                                $0.9 m


8.      Fund Flow and Disbursement Arrangement. The transaction based Disbursement
Methods that may be used under the financing would include Reimbursement, Advance and
Direct Payment. Reimbursement / Direct Payment is likely to be used mainly in claiming cost of
repatriation. The minimum value of application for reimbursement / direct payment would be
BDT 70 million. A Designated Account may be opened in BDT in a commercial bank or
financial institution acceptable to IDA mainly to facilitate quick disbursement of cash allowance
if needed. The ceiling for the Designated Account would be BDT 450 million.

9.      Accounting and Financial Reporting. Spreadsheet-supported Manual Accounting
System will be used for accounting and financial reporting for the financial transactions of the
operation under Components 1 and 2. Simplified one pager Interim Un-audited Financial Reports
(IUFRs) will be submitted to IDA each quarter providing only the source and use of funds not
later than 30 days from the end of a quarter. A reporting format for IFR will be agreed between
the Bank and Government of Bangladesh before negotiations.

10.     External Audit. The Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate of the Office of the
Comptroller and Auditor General will audit the Semi-annual financial statements of the operation
for the period ending on June 30 and December 31. BMET will be responsible for preparation of
the project financial statements including Components 1 and 2 and the part of component 3
implemented by BMET. Audit will be undertaken in the project office and audit for repatriation


                                               24
cost and cash transfers will be based on the documents submitted by IOM to the Government.
The contract between the Government and IOM will include the provision of audit of IOM's
records by the Government of Bangladesh as necessary; and the Bank will also reserve the right
for the same if required. Audited Financial Statements will be submitted to IDA within three
months form the end of each half year in June and December. The following audit reports will be
monitored in the Audit Report Compliance System:


     Implementing/       Audit Type                  Auditor                   Deadline
     Coordinating
     Agency
     BMET                Audit of Project's Semi-    Foreign Aided Project     September 30
                         Annual Financial            Audit Directorate under       and
                         Statements                  Comptroller & Auditor     March 31
                                                     General

As per Bank's Access to Information policy, the audit report for the project shall be placed on
Bank's external website. There is no outstanding audit report due from BMET nor any declared
ineligible expenditure on project implemented by it.


11.     FM Risks. Considering that repatriation amount under the project shall be paid through a
sole source contract with an international agency, the FM risk of the component is assessed as
moderate. However, the FM risk arising from internal control on cash allowance is substantial
due to use of local banking institution's branches at dispersed locations across the country; and
therefore the overall project FM risk is Substantial. The risk mitigation measures for cash
allowance are comprehensive audit of cash payments and establishment of a complaint
mechanism providing opportunity to the beneficiaries to lodge a complaint. Such complaints will
be received and handled by an inter-ministerial committee to be set up by the Government. A list
of beneficiaries would also be placed on the website of the Ministry of Expatriate Welfare and
Overseas Employment / IOM for better transparency and accountability.


12.    The FM arrangements of the project as narrated above have been assessed in accordance
with the Financial Management Manual of the Bank issued in 2010 and they would provide
reasonable assurance that the funds are used for intended purposes.




                                               25
                            Annex 6: Procurement Arrangements
 BANGLADESH: Emergency repatriation and livelihood restoration of migrant workers

13.     Procurement Environment. Bangladesh has a nodal procurement policy agency and a
Public Procurement Act (PPA) 2006 with associated Public Procurement Rules 2008 (PPR) and
bidding documents. It created a critical mass of about 25 procurement professionals and, as of
now, provided training to over 3,200 staff of about 300 organizations. To sustain the reform,
with Bank's assistance, the Government has been implementing a second procurement reform
project since late 2007, focusing largely on the implementation and monitoring of PPA including
introduction of e-government procurement at key sector agencies. Notwithstanding the above
progress over the past years, recently the Government made few amendments to the PPA part of
which were found not consistent with the Bank's Guidelines, and as such the Bank for its
projects allowed for local procurement the use of PPA/PPR with those exceptions.

14.     Capacity of Implementing Agency. In this project, there will only be one contract
between MEWOE and IOM, which is also subject to prior-review by IDA. The contract covers
(i) the cost of air-fare of about 10,000 returnees (Component 1), as well as (ii) one-time cash
grant for up 34,000 Bangladeshi returnees (Component 2). The associated procurement risk is
"low".

15.     Procurement and Consultant Guidelines. Procurement financed under the project will
be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-Consultancy Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants" [Procurement
Guidelines] dated January 2011 and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" [Consultant Guidelines] dated January 2011, and the provisions
stipulated in the Financing Agreement.

16.     Procurement under the Project. There is only one contract under this emergency
project with IOM to be selected through Direct Contracting. IOM is proposed to be contracted
by MEWOE for an amount equivalent to US$ 40.0 million which includes two components;
namely (i) about US$ 12.6 million for airfare of 10,000 Bangladeshi returnees and (ii) US$ 26.5
million for a one-time cash grant up to 34,000 Bangladeshi returnees. Remaining US$ 0.9
million is a provision for contingency in order to finance the repatriation of additional
Bangladeshi nationals if the overall number of returnees exceeds 30,000 or for cost overruns or
administrative costs and to be paid / reconciled on an actual basis. However, considering the
service to be non-consultancy in nature, the contract form of IDA's Standard Bidding Documents
(SBD) for non-consultancy services April 2007 is customized and used in the contract between
MEWOE and IOM. Since majority of the Bangladeshi migrant workers in Libya have already
returned through IOM, the contract will have provisions for financing eligible expenditures
already incurred by IOM in repatriating Bangladeshi migrant workers.

17.     Justification for single-source of IOM. The contracting of IOM satisfies Paragraph 3.7
(c) and (f) of IDA's Procurement Guidelines (January 2011) through the following justifications:

            IOM is uniquely qualified and placed as the largest international organization for
            migration issues. With an operating budget around US$ one billion, offices at more


                                              26
                than 100 member countries and 5,400 workers, it has the demonstrated capacity to
                successfully repatriate Bangladeshi migrant workers from Libya (or any other
                country in conflict;
                IOM's overhead charges are low due to their not-for-profit status and their cost
                figures for repatriation of Bangladeshi workers are reasonable;
                Through its global appeal fund, IOM initiated repatriation of migrant workers of
                more than 20 nationalities (including Bangladeshis) from Libya's borders with
                Egypt and Tunisia since the beginning of the crisis in Libya, with the first flight of
                Bangladeshi returnees on February 28, 2011. Government of Bangladesh decided
                to refund part of IOM's expenses for such repatriation and contracting IOM appears
                to be the only practical or feasible solution.

18.     Oversight and Monitoring. Since the proposed contract between IOM and MEWOE
involves payment of airfare for and cash allowance to Bangladeshi returnees, associated risk
mitigation measures have been incorporated into the payment mechanism. For example, to
reimburse airfare of US$ 12.6 million, IOM will submit flight details (flight number and date),
copies of official manifest of passengers (or equivalent evidence of list of passengers) with
identification information and copies of invoices submitted by the chartered carriers to IOM. For
the cash allowance component of US$ 26.5 million, payment will be in three installments, with
IOM getting the first installment as advance, with the second and third installments to be
supported by documentary evidence of list of recipients of cash allowance issued by the
disbursing bank, as reconciled with the list of assisted returnees. For the reconciliation of the last
payment, IOM will submit list(s) of recipients of cash allowance issued by the disbursing bank,
as reconciled with the list(s) of assisted returnees, and certified by the GoB. IOM will refund to
the Government any cash that is accounted as surplus at the end of contract implementation.
Finally, the contingency of US$ 0.9 million will be at actual basis eligible expenditure.

19.   Review by The Bank: Since the only contract under the project is subject to prior-review
by IDA, there will be no post-review.

20.     Simplified Procurement Plan:

       Ref          Contract          Estimated     Selection     Review     Expected     Comments
       No.         Description          Cost        Method          By       Contract
                                        (`000                      Bank       Signing
                                        US$)                      (Prior/      Date
                                                                   Post)
      NCS-      Repatriation and        40,000       Direct        Prior    May 1,        IOM will
      1         Livelihood                         Contracting              2011          be
                Restoration of                                                            contracted
                Bangladeshi                                                               directly
                Migrant Workers




                                                   27
                  Annex 7: Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements

 BANGLADESH: Emergency repatriation and livelihood restoration of migrant workers

1. The Project will be implemented by the Government of Bangladesh through its Ministry of
   Expatriates Welfare and Overseas Employment (MoEWOE) as the line ministry, and through
   the Bureau of Manpower, Employment and Training (BMET) as its implementing agency.
   The MoEWOE will sign the contract with IOM incorporating the arrangements for the
   implementation of components 1 and 2 of the project. The MoEWOE will also coordinate the
   activities to be undertaken by IOM and BMET under component 2 (one-time cash grant for
   returnees)

2. The monitoring arrangements would primarily involve reporting from BMET/MoEWOE on
   the number of documented/eligible returnees from Libya who have been supported by or
   availed of the resources and services provided under the Project. For component 1, given the
   repatriation of Bangladeshis facilitated by IOM, the numbers of such returnees would be
   monitored and documented. IOM will submit flight details (flight number and date), copies
   of official manifest of passengers (or equivalent evidence of list of passengers) with
   identification information, and copies of invoices submitted by the chartered carriers to IOM.
   In coordination with BMET. These will be provided on a weekly basis recorded, including
   cumulative numbers of returnees and of those awaiting repatriation.

3. Similarly, for the cash allowance component, lists of workers who have received these
   payments and date of receipt will be provided by IOM and BMET. This would be based on
   the documentary evidence of the list of recipients of cash allowance issued by the disbursing
   bank and as reconciled with the pre-existing list(s) of IOM-assisted and non IOM-assisted
   returnees.




                                               28
                   Annex 8: Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members
  BANGLADESH: Emergency repatriation and livelihood restoration of migrant workers


1. Project Processing Schedule and Bank team who worked on project preparation:
Table 1 Project Processing Schedule

    Activity                                            Planned                 Actual
    Appraisal

    ISDS &PID to Infoshop
    Negotiations                                      April 18, 2011
    RVP approval
    Board approval                                    April 26, 2011
    Grant signature
    Effectiveness
    Mid-term review
    Closing date


Table 2 Bank team who worked on project preparation

    Name                                Title                                     Unit
    Bernice Van Bronkhorst              Task Team Leader                          SASDU
    Zaheed H. Khan                      Sr. Urban Specialist- Co-TTL              SASDU
    Iffath Anwar Sharif                 Sr. Economist ­ Co-TTL                    SASSP
    Andras Horvai                       Country Program Coordinator               SACBA
    Ahmed Merzouk                       Sr. Procurement Specialist                SARPS
    Marghoob Bin Hussain                Sr. Procurement Specialist                DACWB
    Catherine Desiree Gamper            Disaster Risk Management Specialist,      SASDU
                                        Consultant
    Van Anh Vu Hong                     Infrastructure Specialist, Consultant     LCSTR
    Burhannudin Ahmed                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist       SARFM
    Nadia Sharmin                       ETC Environmental Specialist              SASDI
    Sanjay Kathuria                     Lead Country Economist                    SASEP
    Sabah Moyeen                        Social Development Analyst                SASDS
    Lilian MacArthur                    Program Assistant                         SASDU
    Jay Pascual                         Counsel                                   LEGES
    Chau-Ching Shen                     Sr. Finance Officer                       CTRFC




                                                         29
Table 3 Advisors and Quality Assurance

    Name                            Title                               Unit
    Ellen Goldstein                 Country Director                    SACBD
    John Henry Stein                Sector Director                     SASSD
    Xian Zhu                        Director, Strategy and Operations   SARVP
    Ming Zhang                      Sector Manager                      SASDU
    Colin Scott                     Lead Specialist                     MSSO
    Zia Al Jalaly                   Sr. Social Development Specialist   SARDE
    Surendra Agarwal                Consultant                          AFTOS
    Sanjay Srivastava               Regional Safeguards Adviser         SARDE




                                                   30
                 Annex 9: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework
 BANGLADESH: Emergency repatriation and livelihood restoration of migrant workers

Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard analysis

1.      The project proposes to assist the urgent repatriation of around 30,000 Bangladeshi
migrant workers that were stranded in camps after fleeing Libya's crisis. The project will first
finance one third of the airline ticket to repatriate migrant workers to Bangladesh. Other donors
would cover the associated expenses and the remaining air travel costs. Secondly, the project will
finance the distribution of cash grants to cover basic reintegration needs. None of the proposed
activities triggers any of the Bank's safeguard policies.


Safeguard Policies Triggered                                                 Yes        No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                                   X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                           X
Forests ((OP/BP 4.36)                                                                   X
Pest Management (OP/BP 4.09)                                                            X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                                X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                                         X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                   X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                             X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                        X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                                 X


Summary of Key Safeguard Issues

2. The proposed project does not induce any adverse environmental impacts. The project has
therefore been assigned a C Environmental Category. The project is also not expected to have
any significant adverse or irreversible social impacts.

3. The project will not trigger OP/BP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement as clarified in the OP: "The
essential criteria for the application of the policy are (a) the resettlement being
involuntary; (b) the project being location specific; and (c) the taking of land
or restriction of access being for a Bank-financed investment. The policy does
not apply when these criteria are not met". The project will support only voluntary repatriation
of stranded Bangladeshis and will not trigger land acquisition or displacement of communities at
the receiving venue. The project is also not expected to trigger OP 4.10 Indigenous People as no
significant/specific impacts on indigenous people are expected to result from the project at this
stage.

4. In addition, OP 4.12 Natural Disasters, War, or Civil Strife (endnote 6) states that "this policy
. . . does not cover refugees from natural disasters, war, or civil strife (see OP/BP 8.50,
Emergency Recovery Assistance)."



                                                31
Potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the
project area:

5. No potential indirect and/or long term impacts are expected. The project intends to engage in
the emergency repatriation, reintegration and commencement of livelihood restoration of migrant
workers. In so doing it is assisting migrant workers from Bangladesh who fled the crisis in Libya
and who want to return to their homes and families in Bangladesh. The workers will be given a
one-time cash grant to cover any immediate needs for the reintegration in their home country.
For the medium term it is planned to provide assistance where needed for livelihood restoration.
This could take the form of the government's transitional safety net provisions including cash
payment, grant or micro-credit, training, assistance in job search, and others. These activities will
be planned during implementation in more detail and will depend on additional grant funding
including from the JSDF.

Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide an
assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
6. The implementing agency for the repatriation and reintegration of migrant workers is the
International Organization for Migration (IOM). IOM is responsible for the pre-departure,
transport, and post-arrival handling. IOM uses appropriate screening mechanisms to ensure that
all repatriation is done on a voluntary basis. The GoB plans to use IDA financing to cover parts
of the expenses related to the airfare and for the full cash grant provision. Given the emergency
and that the GoB will be reimbursed through retroactive financing from the proposed Emergency
Recovery Credit, and to ensure continuation of IOM's already ongoing repatriation of the
Bangladeshi migrant workers, there will be no direct supervision by Bank staff at the origin of
the process. However to ensure that the repatriation of the migrant workers is in line with the
Bank operational and safeguard policies, the Bank will adopt a three-pronged approach, namely
(i) to carry out a needs assessment by a social development specialist on the ground, (ii) to
ensure that IOM's operating protocols are in line with the Bank's safeguards policies; and (iii) to
conduct supervision of returnees arriving in Dhaka.

7. Needs assessment/quality assurance. There is a need to verify the numbers and needs of
the people asking for assistance for repatriation to ensure the Bank responds to the actual needs.
Given the emergency situation and the number of actors on the ground, the numbers of migrants
that need assistance or are stranded in camps is constantly and rapidly changing. However, given
the lack of time and emergency nature of the proposed project, as well as difficult security
situation on the ground, a needs assessment in the refugee camps before Board presentation is
not feasible and the project will rely on information and protocols provided by UN partners such
as UNHCR and IOM for these purposes. In addition, the SAR team is coordinating with a
planned needs assessment of displaced people by the recent conflicts that will be carried out by
the Social Development Team in the MNA region.

8. IOM protocol. The project will rely on the operating procedures of the IOM for repatriation
(implementing agency). The Bank team has reviewed the IOM procedures and found them to be


                                                 32
in line with the Bank's safeguard policies and procedures. Given that the IOM is a UN affiliated
agency, it operates under UN guidelines for voluntary repatriation and reintegration. For the
purpose of this project UN protocols will apply. Key principles followed by UNCHR and IOM in
their operations for repatriation are summarized below:
      Voluntary repatriation is organized effectively and refugees are returning in safety and
        dignity
      Repatriation is based on a free and informed choice
      Conditions conducive to return are actively promoted, and a framework to implement
        voluntary repatriation is established in time
      Safe travels are ensured
      A sustainable return home is ensured
      Returnees are reintegrated smoothly, and return is made sustainable through strengthened
        cooperation with development and other partners at an early stage

9. `Retro-active' supervision upon arrival. To engage in a quality assurance process, the
Bank team in Bangladesh has already been and will go to the airport to meet a number of
repatriation flights in order to observe the IOM and GoB activities upon arrival as well as meet
with a sample of returnees.




                                              33
                           Annex 10: Economic and Financial Analysis
     BANGLADESH: Emergency repatriation and livelihood restoration of migrant workers

1.     Bangladesh recorded remarkable social and economic progress since the 1990s and
achieved steady economic growth of 5 to 6 percent annually during the last decade. Labor
migration and remittances associated with it has been one of two main pillars of economic
growth and poverty reduction. Flexible deployment and skill development of the labor force
remains a lynchpin for accelerating growth in the future.

2.      Bangladesh is now among the top ten remittance-receiving countries globally. Almost
two-thirds of Bangladesh's remittances originate from the Middle East and North Africa,
followed by the United States. Returns to overseas employment are relatively high because of
wage differentials even after adjusting for differences in cost of living and the initial cost to
migrate.10 As a result, migrants are able to finance not only essential current consumption but
also investments that contribute to permanent income gains for household members who remain
at home inside Bangladesh. This has contributed to a steady decline in the poverty rate.

3.      Before the crisis started in Libya, the total official number of migrant workers from
Bangladesh in Libya was estimated to be between 70,000 and 80,000. The Bangladeshi workers
fleeing Libya are mostly unskilled and semi-skilled poor workers who support their poor families
back in Bangladesh. For those who have only recently migrated, this crisis is threatening
livelihoods not only because of the loss of income to support their families and themselves, but
also because of the potential increase in debts as the situation renders them unable to repay the
outstanding balances.

4.      The project will provide timely budgetary and logistical support to finance the
repatriation of its citizens through the IOM. So far, about 30,000 Bangladeshis have been
repatriated with the aid of IOM and an additional 3-4,000 have been repatriated by other means.
Thus, these people avoided the hardships of staying much longer in the humanitarian camps
under poor living conditions and without the opportunity to reintegrate into economic activities
in Bangladesh or elsewhere. The project will be complemented through other activities (e.g.,
through the forthcoming JDSF grant) to support the job placement of repatriated Bangladeshi
citizens that will assist these workers to continue their contribution to the economy. For the
economic analysis, it is difficult to quantify these benefits.

5.       For the purpose of this emergency project, not only is it difficult to quantify the suffering
that is relieved by repatriating those stranded in refugee camps, in addition, not enough
information is available to carry out a full economic and financial analysis. A very simple
analysis assumes that the project beneficiaries are the 30,000 workers repatriated by the project
(and receiving the cash allowance), and the 4,000 additional workers who will receive the cash
transfer of USD775. The indirect project beneficiaries are the families of these 34,000 workers
that used to send remittances back. Therefore, the principal benefits of the project accrue to these


10
  The average Bangladeshi pays, around US$3,150 for securing employment abroad, according to an IOM 2009
survey.


                                                    34
repatriated workers and their families, by reuniting them, by supporting basic subsistence in the
short term, and by giving them a window to restore their livelihoods.




                                               35
                           Annex 11: Documents in Project Files
 BANGLADESH: Emergency repatriation and livelihood restoration of migrant workers

1. [All sub-sections must have a continuous paragraph numbering for the entire document per
   institutional standard.]




                                             36
                                              Annex 12: Statement of Loans and Credits
             BANGLADESH: Emergency repatriation and livelihood restoration of migrant workers



                                                                                                                                      Difference between
                                                                                                                                      expected and actual
                                                                       Original Amount in US$ Millions                                  disbursements
Project ID     FY    Purpose                                         IBRD      IDA        SF        GEF         Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig.    Frm. Rev'd
P120843       2011   BD Private Sector Development Support            0.00    120.00       0.00      0.00         0.00    122.69        0.00       0.00
P118701       2011   Employment Generation Program                    0.00    150.00       0.00          0.00     0.00    148.48        0.00       0.00
P111017       2011   Padma Bridge                                     0.00   1,200.00      0.00          0.00     0.00    1,222.89      0.00       0.00
P103999       2010   Chittagong Water Supply Improvement              0.00    170.00       0.00      0.00         0.00    177.43        0.00       0.00
P090807       2010   Skills and Training Enhancement Project          0.00     79.00       0.00      0.00         0.00      75.18      -2.79       0.00
P073886       2010   Social Investment Program Project II             0.00    115.00       0.00      0.00         0.00    116.10        0.00       0.00
P095965       2009   Siddhirganj Peaking Power Project                0.00    350.00       0.00          0.00     0.00    348.38     173.77        0.00
P093988       2009   Dhaka Water Sup &San. Project                    0.00    149.00       0.00          0.00     0.00    142.14      39.09        0.00
P098151       2009   Clean Air and Sustainable Environment            0.00     62.20       0.00      0.00         0.00      60.16       0.79       0.00
P106161       2009   Secondary Educ Qlty & Access                     0.00    130.70       0.00      0.00         0.00      69.31     -14.85       0.00
                     Enhancement
P106216       2009   Higher Education Quality Enhancement             0.00     81.00       0.00      0.00         0.00      75.36       8.69       0.00
P106332       2009   Disability and Children at Risk                  0.00     35.00       0.00          0.00     0.00      32.11       8.04       0.00
P111272       2009   Emergency 2007 Cyclone Recovery &Rest            0.00    184.00       0.00      0.00         0.00    167.98      23.25        0.00
                     Pr
P098146       2008   Public Procurement Reform Project II             0.00     23.60       0.00      0.00         0.00      11.18       1.95       0.00
P084078       2008   National Agricultural Technology Project         0.00     62.60       0.00      0.00         0.00      41.07       4.10       0.00
P040712       2008   Water Management Improvement Project             0.00    102.26       0.00          0.00     8.08      82.97     14.32       10.92
P102305       2007   Avian Flu Preparedness                           0.00     16.00       0.00          0.00     3.83       9.36      -1.42       0.00
P098273       2006   Local Governance Support Project                 0.00    111.50       0.00          0.00    19.96      29.01     25.94        0.00
P089382       2006   Investment Promotion Financing Facility          0.00    307.00       0.00      0.00         0.00    258.47      -12.16       0.00
P074841       2005   HNP Sector Program                               0.00    300.00       0.00          0.00     0.00      11.20     12.22        0.00
P074966       2004   Primary Education Development Program            0.00    150.00       0.00      0.00         0.13      20.59     11.62        0.00
                     II
P078707       2004   Power Sector Development TA                      0.00     15.50       0.00          0.00     0.00       5.82       4.85       0.00
P086791       2004   Reaching Out of School Children Project          0.00     86.00       0.00          0.00     0.00      30.28      -8.67      -2.68
P062916       2003   Central Bank Strengthening Project               0.00     37.00       0.00      0.00         0.00      26.07     21.07        0.00
P071435       2003   Rural Transport Improvement Project              0.00    210.00       0.00          0.00     0.00      29.12     -11.33       3.49
P053578       2003   Social Investment Program Project                0.00    101.24       0.00          0.00     0.00      48.39     -34.27      21.92
P071794       2002   Rural Elect. Renewable Energy Dev.               0.00    320.98       0.00          0.00     0.04      20.45    -148.08     -82.98
P041887       1999   Municipal Services                               0.00    205.60       0.00      0.00         1.39      46.91     -23.31     -23.97
                                                            Total:    0.00   4,875.18      0.00          0.00    33.43    3,429.10    92.82     - 73.30




                                                                             37
                                                    BANGLADESH
                                               STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                              Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                               In Millions of US Dollars

                                                          Committed                                       Disbursed
                                                         IFC                                           IFC
FY Approval   Company                        Loan       Equity        Quasi    Partic.   Loan          Equity        Quasi   Partic.
2001          BRAC Bank                      0.00         1.63          0.00     0.00      0.00          1.60         0.00     0.00
1997          DBH                            1.91         0.65          0.00     0.00      1.91          0.65         0.00     0.00
1991          Dynamic Textile                0.00         0.00          0.00     1.48      0.00          0.00         0.00     1.48
              GTFP Dhaka Bank                5.00         0.00          0.00     0.00      5.00          0.00         0.00     0.00
              GTFP Eastern Bnk               2.59         0.00          0.00     0.00      2.59          0.00         0.00     0.00
2004          GrameenPhone Ltd               24.00        0.00          0.00     0.00     24.00          0.00         0.00     0.00
2006          GrameenPhone Ltd               59.00        0.00          0.00     0.00      0.00          0.00         0.00     0.00
1998          IPDC                           3.13         0.00          0.00     0.00      3.13          0.00         0.00     0.00
1998          Khulna                         10.40        0.00          0.00    11.99     10.40          0.00         0.00   11.99
1998          Lafarge/Surma                  35.00       10.00          0.00     0.00     35.00        10.00          0.00     0.00
2000          Lafarge/Surma                  0.00         0.00          0.00    15.00      0.00          0.00         0.00   15.00
2003          RAK Ceramics                   7.20         0.00          0.00     0.00      7.20          0.00         0.00     0.00
2000          United Leasing                 2.57         0.00          0.00     0.00      2.57          0.00         0.00     0.00
                          Total portfolio:   150.80      12.28          0.00    28.47     91.80        12.25          0.00   28.47




                                                                          Approvals Pending Commitment
              FY Approval       Company                               Loan      Equity      Quasi          Partic.
              2000              USPCL                            0.00            0.00           0.00         0.00
              1998              Khulna                           0.00            0.00           0.00         0.00
                                     Total pending commitment:        0.00       0.00           0.00         0.00




                                                                 38
                                                              Annex 13: Country at a Glance
  BANGLADESH: Emergency repatriation and livelihood restoration of migrant workers
Bangladesh at a glance                                                                                                                                                   2/25/11



Ke y D e v e lo pm e nt Indic a t o rs                                                So uth          Lo w
                                                                    B angladesh        A sia       inco me           Age distribution, 2009
(2009)
                                                                                                                                         Male                             Female

P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                                       162.2           1,545        828          75-79
Surface area (tho usand sq. km)                                           1 44            5,131     17,838
                                                                                                                    60-64
P o pulatio n gro wth (%)                                                    1.4             1.5        2.2
Urban po pulatio n (% o f to tal po pulatio n)                               28              29         28          45-49

                                                                                                                    30-34
GNI (A tlas metho d, US$ billio ns)                                        93.5           1,534       389
                                                                                                                    15-19
GNI per capita (A tlas metho d, US$ )                                       580             993       470
GNI per capita (P P P , internatio nal $ )                                1,550           2,775        ,1
                                                                                                      1 31              0-4

                                                                                                                              6          4          2         0       2       4      6
GDP gro wth (%)                                                             5.7             4.8        6.2
                                                                                                                                             percent of total population
GDP per capita gro wth (%)                                                  4.3             3.3        3.9

( m o s t re c e nt e s t im a t e , 2 0 0 3 ­ 2 0 0 8 )

P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1 .25 a day (P P P , %)                      50             40           ..
                                                                                                                    Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 2.00 a day (P P P , %)                       81             74           ..
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                             66             64          57
                                                                                                                    200
Infant mo rtality (per 1,000 live births)                                    41             56          77
Child malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                 41             41          28
                                                                                                                    150

                                   5
A dult literacy, male (% o f ages 1 and o lder)                             60               72         73
                                                                                                                    100
                                     5
A dult literacy, female (% o f ages 1 and o lder)                           50               50         59
Gro ss primary enro llment, male (% o f age gro up)                         89              101        107
Gro ss primary enro llment, female (% o f age gro up)                       94              105        100           50


                                                                                                                        0
A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                   80             87          64
A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)             53             36          35                              1990        1995          2000      2008


                                                                                                                                   Bangladesh                      South Asia


N e t A id F lo ws                                         19 8 0        19 9 0       2000          2009      a



(US$ millio ns)
Net ODA and o fficial aid                                   1,287         2,093           1 72
                                                                                           ,1        2,061          Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
To p 3 do no rs (in 2007):
  United Kingdo m                                              99            97             103       253           8
  Euro pean Co mmissio n                                       33            59              68       194
  United States                                               174           169              63        93           6


A id (% o f GNI)                                              7.3           6.8             2.4        2.4          4

A id per capita (US$ )                                         14            18               8         13
                                                                                                                    2


Lo ng- T e rm E c o no m ic T re nds                                                                                0

                                                                                                                                               95                             05
Co nsumer prices (annual % change)                               ..           ..            2.8        6.7
GDP implicit deflato r (annual % change)                      17.6          6.3             1.9        6.5
                                                                                                                                         GDP                        GDP per capita

Exchange rate (annual average, lo cal per US$ )               15.5         33.3            50.3       68.8
Terms o f trade index (2000 = 100)                               ..         98              100        83
                                                                                                                     19 8 0 ­ 9 0 19 9 0 ­ 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 ­ 0 9
                                                                                                                            (average annual gro wth %)
P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                          90.4          1
                                                                          1 5.6        140.8        162.2                         2.5                   2.0                 1.6
GDP (US$ millio ns)                                          8,1 5
                                                            1 1          30,129       47,125       89,360                         3.7                   4.8                 5.9
                                                                           (% o f GDP )
A griculture                                                 31.6          30.3            25.5       18.7                        2.1                   2.9                 3.3
Industry                                                     20.6          21 .5           25.3       28.7                        6.0                   7.3                 7.8
  M anufacturing                                             13.8           13.1           15.2       17.9                        5.2                   7.2                 7.9
Services                                                     47.8          48.3            49.2       52.6                        3.8                   4.5                 6.1

Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                   91.8         86.2            77.7       77.5                        2.7                   2.9                 4.5
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                 6.1          4.2             4.6        5.3                        2.7                   4.7                 8.8
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n                                    14.4          17.1           23.0       24.4                        7.2                   9.2                 7.8

Expo rts o f go o ds and services                              5.5           6.1           14.0       19.4                        5.4                   13.1                 1
                                                                                                                                                                            1 .5
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                             17.9         13.5            19.2       26.6                        3.2                   9.7                 8.8
Gro ss savings                                                 3.7         14.4            26.5       37.5


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2009 data are preliminary. .. indicates data are no t available.
a. A id data are fo r 2008.

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).




                                                                                              39
                                                                                                                                                              Bangladesh

B a la nc e o f P a ym e nt s a nd T ra de                 2000        2009
                                                                                          Governance indicators, 2000 and 2009
(US$ millio ns)
To tal merchandise expo rts (fo b)                          5,701       15,581
To tal merchandise impo rts (cif)                          7,566       20,291               Voice and accountability
Net trade in go o ds and services                          -2,510      -6,326
                                                                                                      Political stability
Current acco unt balance                                     -337       2,416
 as a % o f GDP                                               -0.7        2.7                       Regulatory quality

                                                                                                           Rule of law
Wo rkers' remittances and
 co mpensatio n o f emplo yees (receipts)                   1,968      10,523
                                                                                                Control of corruption

Reserves, including go ld                                   1,599       4,686
                                                                                                                            0        25           50           75        100

                                                                                                      2009                      Country's percentile rank (0-100)
C e nt ra l G o v e rnm e nt F ina nc e                                                                                           higher values imply better ratings
                                                                                                      2000

(% o f GDP )
Current revenue (including grants)                             8.4       10.5             Source: Kaufmann-Kraay-Mastruzzi, World Bank

 Tax revenue                                                   6.4        8.2
Current expenditure                                            7.5       1 0.1
                                                                                       T e c hno lo gy a nd Inf ra s t ruc t ure                           2000         2008
Overall surplus/deficit                                       -5.1       -4.0
                                                                                       P aved ro ads (% o f to tal)                                            9.5        9.5
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                          Fixed line and mo bile pho ne
 Individual                                                     ..         ..                               00
                                                                                        subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                                 1          29
 Co rpo rate                                                   35         28           High techno lo gy expo rts
                                                                                        (% o f manufactured expo rts)                                          0.2        0.8
E xt e rna l D e bt a nd R e s o urc e F lo ws
                                                                                       E nv iro nm e nt
(US$ millio ns)
To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                     15,535      23,820          A gricultural land (% o f land area)                                    70         70
To tal debt service                                           766         957          Fo rest area (% o f land area)                                          6.8        6.7
Debt relief (HIP C, M DRI)                                      ­           ­          Terrestrial pro tected areas (% o f surface area)                         ..        2.2

To tal debt (% o f GDP )                                     33.0        26.7          Freshwater reso urces per capita (cu. meters)                         720          656
To tal debt service (% o f expo rts)                          8.9         3.3          Freshwater withdrawal (billio n cubic meters)                          79.4          ..

Fo reign direct investment (net inflo ws)                     280        674           CO2 emissio ns per capita (mt)                                         0.20       0.28
P o rtfo lio equity (net inflo ws)                              1        -154
                                                                                       GDP per unit o f energy use
                                                                                        (2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                              6.8        7.2
  Composition of total external debt, 2009
                                                                                       Energy use per capita (kg o f o il equivalent)                          132        163
                                Short-term,
                                  1,939       IBRD, 0
              Private, 84

                                                                                        Wo rld B a nk G ro up po rt f o lio                                2000         2009
            Bilateral, 2,746
                                                         IDA, 10,746
                                                                                        (US$ millio ns)

                                                                                        IB RD
                                                                                         To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                                 24             0
            Other multi-                                                                 Disbursements                                                           0             0
           lateral, 7,630                                                                P rincipal repayments                                                   5             0
                                                                                         Interest payments                                                       2             0
                                              IMF, 675
  US$ millions                                                                          IDA
                                                                                         To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                              6,431      10,746
                                                                                         Disbursements                                                        357          297
P riv a t e S e c t o r D e v e lo pm e nt                 2000        2009              To tal debt service                                                   129         313

Time required to start a business (days)                           ­      44            IFC (fiscal year)
Co st to start a business (% o f GNI per capita)                   ­     36.2            To tal disbursed and o utstanding po rtfo lio                          48          1
                                                                                                                                                                           19
Time required to register pro perty (days)                         ­     245              o f which IFC o wn acco unt                                           46         107
                                                                                         Disbursements fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                   44          10
Ranked as a majo r co nstraint to business                 2000        2009              P o rtfo lio sales, prepayments and
 (% o f managers surveyed who agreed)                                                     repayments fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                         2          19
  Electricity                                               72.9            ..
  Co rruptio n                                              57.6            ..          M IGA
                                                                                         Gro ss expo sure                                                       80             78
Sto ck market capitalizatio n (% o f GDP )                     2.5        7.9            New guarantees                                                          0              0
B ank capital to asset ratio (%)                               3.5       6.5


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2009 data are preliminary.                                                                       2/25/11
.. indicates data are no t available. ­ indicates o bservatio n is no t applicable.

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).




                                                                                           40
Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                                     Bangladesh


With selected targets to achieve b etween 1990 and 2015
(estimate clo sest to date sho wn, +/- 2 years)                                                                                B a ngla de s h


G o a l 1: ha lv e t he ra t e s f o r e xt re m e po v e rt y a nd m a lnut rit io n                          19 9 0           19 9 5             2000                   2008
                                     .25
 P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1 a day (P P P , % o f po pulatio n)                                          66.8             59.4                57.8                   49.6
 P o verty headco unt ratio at natio nal po verty line (% o f po pulatio n)                                          ..          51.0               48.9                   40.0
 Share o f inco me o r co nsumptio n to the po o rest qunitile (%)                                              10.0              9.3                9.3                    9.4
 P revalence o f malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                                        64.3               58.0              48.2                   41.3


G o a l 2 : e ns ure t ha t c hildre n a re a ble t o c o m ple t e prim a ry s c ho o ling
 P rimary scho o l enro llment (net, %)                                                                            64                  ..                   ..               85
 P rimary co mpletio n rate (% o f relevant age gro up)                                                             ..                 ..                 59                 54
 Seco ndary scho o l enro llment (gro ss, %)                                                                       18                  ..                 44                44
 Yo uth literacy rate (% o f peo ple ages 15-24)                                                                    ..                 ..                64                  74


G o a l 3 : e lim ina t e ge nde r dis pa rit y in e duc a t io n a nd e m po we r wo m e n
 Ratio o f girls to bo ys in primary and seco ndary educatio n (%)                                                75                   ..                  ..               106
 Wo men emplo yed in the no nagricultural secto r (% o f no nagricultural emplo yment)                           20               27                      25                 20
 P ro po rtio n o f seats held by wo men in natio nal parliament (%)                                              10               9                       9                  15


G o a l 4 : re duc e unde r- 5 m o rt a lit y by t wo - t hirds
 Under-5 mo rtality rate (per 1 ,000)                                                                             148               1
                                                                                                                                   19                     90                  55
 Infant mo rtality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                                                   102              84                     66                  43
 M easles immunizatio n (pro po rtio n o f o ne-year o lds immunized, %)                                           65              79                     72                  89


G o a l 5 : re duc e m a t e rna l m o rt a lit y by t hre e - f o urt hs
 M aternal mo rtality ratio (mo deled estimate, per 1     00,000 live births)                                    870              640                    500                340
 B irths attended by skilled health staff (% o f to tal)                                                            ..            10                      12                18
 Co ntraceptive prevalence (% o f wo men ages 1         5-49)                                                    40               45                      54                 53


G o a l 6 : ha lt a nd be gin t o re v e rs e t he s pre a d o f H IV / A ID S a nd o t he r m a jo r dis e a s e s
 P revalence o f HIV (% o f po pulatio n ages 1  5-49)                                                              ..              ..                     ..                 ..
 Incidence o f tuberculo sis (per 100,000 peo ple)                                                              220               220                    220                220
 Tuberculo sis case detectio n rate (%, all fo rms)                                                                19              20                     24                 42


G o a l 7 : ha lv e t he pro po rt io n o f pe o ple wit ho ut s us t a ina ble a c c e s s t o ba s ic ne e ds
 A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                                                     78                 78                     79                  80
 A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)                                               39                 42                     46                  53
 Fo rest area (% o f to tal land area)                                                                         6.8                 6.8                    6.8               6.7
 Terrestrial pro tected areas (% o f surface area)                                                                ..                 ..                     ..               2.2
 CO2 emissio ns (metric to ns per capita)                                                                       0.1                0.2                    0.2               0.3
 GDP per unit o f energy use (co nstant 2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                               6.2                 6.1                    6.8               7.2


G o a l 8 : de v e lo p a glo ba l pa rt ne rs hip f o r de v e lo pm e nt
                               00
 Telepho ne mainlines (per 1 peo ple)                                                                             0.2             0.2                     0.3                0.8
                                     00
 M o bile pho ne subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                                                      0.0             0.0                     0.2               27.9
                        00
 Internet users (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                   0.0            0.0                      0.1                0.3
                               00
 P erso nal co mputers (per 1 peo ple)                                                                              ..           0.0                      0.1               2.3



   Education indicators (%)                                   Measles immunization (% of 1-year                           ICT indicators (per 100 people)
                                                              olds)
   125                                                        100                                                         40

   100
                                                               75                                                         30
    75

    50                                                         50                                                         20

    25
                                                               25                                                         10
     0

           2000      2002      2004        2006    2008         0                                                         0

                                                                          1990     1995   2000    2008                           2000       2002         2004      2006      2008
            Primary net enrollment ratio
                                                                                                                                        Fixed + mobile subscribers
            Ratio of girls to boys in primary & secondary                Bangladesh         South Asia
            education                                                                                                                   Internet users




No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. .. indicates data are no t available.                                                              2/25/11

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).




                                                                                            41
                                Annex 14: Maps
BANGLADESH: Emergency repatriation and livelihood restoration of migrant workers




                                      42
43
