                                                         CONFORMED COPY


                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 4940-BD




             Financing Agreement
(Emergency Repatriation and Livelihood Restoration of Migrant Workers Project)


                                   between


                 PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH


                                     and


            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                             Dated May 30, 2011
                                                         CREDIT NUMBER 4940-BD


                            FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT        dated May 30, 2011,   entered    into    between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association?). The Recipient and the Association
hereby agree as follows:

            ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to
        twenty five million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
        (SDR 25,300,000) (variously, “Credit? and “Financing?) to assist in financing the
        project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
                                           -2-


2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
        repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is Dollars.

                             ARTICLE III — PROJECT

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
        end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the Bureau of Manpower,
        Employment and Training of the Ministry of Expatriates’ Welfare and Overseas
        Employment in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General
        Conditions.

3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
        shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

               ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
        the IOM Contract has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and IOM.

4.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

4.03.   For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
        obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for
        payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this
        Agreement.

                ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

5.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary or the Additional Secretary, or
        any Joint Secretary, Joint Chief, Deputy Secretary, Deputy Chief, Senior
        Assistant Secretary, Senior Assistant Chief, Assistant Secretary, or Assistant
        Chief of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance.
                                         -3-


5.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

               Economic Relations Division
               Ministry of Finance
               Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
               Sher-E-Bangla Nagar
               Dhaka, Bangladesh

               Facsimile:

               88028113088

5.03.   The Association’s Address is:

               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable:                   Telex:              Facsimile:

               INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI)        1-202-477-6391
               Washington, D.C.
                                -4-


AGREED at Dhaka, People’s Republic of Bangladesh, as of the day and year
first above written.


              PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH



              By: /s/ M Musharraf Hossain Bhuiyan




                                                    Authorized Representative




              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



              By: /s/ Ellen Goldstein



                                                    Authorized Representative
                                           -5-


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                                   Project Description

         The objective of the Project is to support the Recipient in: (i) the timely
repatriation of migrant workers, who have fled the ongoing conflict in Libya, from
refugee camps in neighboring countries; and (ii) the provision of a one-time cash grant as
a transitional safety net measure to help said workers meet immediate basic needs and
commence the process of livelihood restoration.

        The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1. Repatriation

        Provision of transportation services to eligible migrant workers to return to
        Dhaka.

Part 2. Transitional Assistance

        Provision of Transitional Assistance Grants to eligible migrant workers, together
        with the establishment of a cash transfer system, and the design and
        implementation of a suitable public information campaign.
                                           -6-


                                     SCHEDULE 2

                                   Project Execution

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      Institutional Arrangements

        The Recipient shall maintain the IOM Contract throughout the period of Project
        implementation, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive the
        IOM Contract, or any provision thereof, except with the prior written consent of
        the Association.

B.      Transitional Assistance Guidelines

1.      The Recipient shall:

        (a)     by no later than May 15, 2011, cause the IOM to prepare transitional
                assistance guidelines, in consultation with BMET, satisfactory in
                substance to the Recipient and the Association, which shall set out, inter
                alia: (i) the eligibility criteria for nationals of the Recipient who have
                fled the ongoing conflict in Libya to receive Transitional Assistance
                Grants; (ii) the respective roles and responsibilities of the relevant
                agencies of the Recipient and those of the IOM under Part 2 of the
                Project; and (iii) the procedures pursuant to which disbursement of the
                Transitional Assistance Grants shall be carried out; and

        (b)     ensure that the implementation of Part 2 of the Project shall take place in
                accordance with the Transitional Assistance Guidelines.

2.      In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Transitional Assistance
        Guidelines and those of this Agreement, the latter shall prevail.

C.      Anti-Corruption

        The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Section II.     Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.      (a)     The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
                prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
                4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth
                below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project Report shall
                                           -7-


                cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
                the Association not later than one (1) month after the end of the period
                covered by such report.

        (b)     The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a)
                consist of the following:

                (i)     number of repatriated migrant workers who have arrived safely
                        in Dhaka; and

                (ii)    number of repatriated migrant workers who have received a cash
                        grant under Part 2 of the Project.

B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
        system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
        Conditions.

2.      Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall
        prepare and furnish to the Association not later than thirty (30) days after the end
        of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
        covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.

3.      The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
        provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
        Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester. The
        audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
        Association not later than three (3) months after the end of such period.

Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Non-Consulting Services. All non-consulting services required for the Project
        and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in
        accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
        Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

2.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
        particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
        particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
        Procurement Guidelines.
                                           -8-


B.      Particular Method of Procurement of Non-Consulting Services

        Non-consulting services under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project shall be procured
        under Direct Contracting arrangements with the IOM and in accordance with
        procedures agreed with the Association.

C.      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

        The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
        Bank’s prior review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
        Association.

Section IV.     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing

A.      General

1.      The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
        additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
        (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated May
        2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to
        this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
        set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2.      The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
        financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category?), the allocations of the
        amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to
        be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:


                                                                      Percentage of
                                          Amount of the            Expenditures to be
                                       Financing Allocated              Financed
              Category                 (expressed in SDR)          (inclusive of Taxes)

 (1) Transportation Services                      7,950,000               100%

 (2) Transitional Assistance                     16,720,000               100%
     Grants

 (3) Unallocated                                   630,000                   -

     TOTAL AMOUNT                                25,300,000
                                      -9-


B.   Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.   (a)    Withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 7,950,000
            may be made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, but
            on or after February 28, 2011, for Eligible Expenditures under
            Category (1).

     (b)    Withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 16,720,000
            may be made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, but
            on or after April 18, 2011, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (2),
            provided however that no withdrawal shall be made under said Category
            until the Transitional Assistance Guidelines have been prepared and
            submitted to the Association, in form and substance satisfactory to
            Recipient and the Association.

2.   The Closing Date is June 30, 2012.
                                        - 10 -


                                   SCHEDULE 3

                                Repayment Schedule

                                                    Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                               repayable
               Date Payment Due                      (expressed as a percentage)*
On each February 15 and August 15:
commencing August 15, 2021 to and including                        1%
February 15, 2031
commencing August 15, 2031 to and including                        2%
February 15, 2051

* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of
the General Conditions.
                                        - 11 -


                                     APPENDIX

Definitions

1.     “Anti-Corruption Guidelines? means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
       Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
       Credits and Grants?, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

2.     “Bureau of Manpower, Employment and Training? and the acronym “BMET?
       mean the bureau under the Recipient’s Ministry of Expatriates’ Welfare and
       Overseas Employment and responsible for, inter alia, the welfare of overseas
       Bangladeshi workers and their families.

3.     “Category? means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
       this Agreement.

4.     “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
       General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010.

5.     “IOM? means the International Organization for Migration.

6.     “IOM Contract? means the contract to be entered into between the Recipient and
       IOM through which the latter on behalf of the former would implement activities
       under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, as set out in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

7.     “Ministry of Expatriates’ Welfare and Overseas Employment? means the
       Recipient’s Ministry of Expatriates’ Welfare and Overseas Employment.

8.     “Procurement Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
       and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
       World Bank Borrowers? published by the Bank in January 2011.

9.     “Procurement Plan? means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project,
       dated April 19, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
       Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with
       the provisions of said paragraphs.

10.    “Transitional Assistance Grant? means a one-time cash grant, made by the
       Recipient through IOM to an eligible migrant worker following the latter’s
       arrival in Dhaka, in an amount equivalent to seven hundred seventy five dollars
       ($775), and for purposes of the table in Section IV.A of Schedule 2 to this
       Agreement, includes the costs associated with the public information campaign
       and administrative costs.
                                       - 12 -


11.   “Transitional Assistance Guidelines? means the guidelines referred to in Section
      I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

12.   “Transportation Services? means the cost of air transport to Dhaka, from the
      Arab Republic of Egypt and the Republic of Tunisia, of eligible migrant workers
      who are nationals of the Recipient and have fled the ongoing conflict in Libya,
      up to 10,000 returnees.
