Bangladesh: A Helping Hand in a Crisis
                                                                                                      93498
                                                                                                      May 8, 2012




 Bringing Bangladeshi Workers Home from the Libyan Conflict


Overview
Following the outbreak of conflict in Libya in 2011, the Government of Bangladesh, with the
support of the World Bank and the International Organization of Migration (IOM), repatriated
more than 36,000 Bangladeshi migrants working in Libya and provided transitional assistance
through a one-time cash grant to help returning workers meet their immediate needs and work
toward restoring livelihoods.


Challenge                                              MULTIMEDIA
During the conflict in Libya in February 2011, an
estimated 40,000 Bangladeshis working in Libya
were forced to return home.  The conflict forced
many to leave behind all their possessions and
flee in heavy debt.  Some arrived at the Libyan
borders in trucks, some in buses or whatever
mode of transport they could find. Many trudged
through the desert carrying all their possessions
on their backs, trying to avoid robbery and
gunfire and having to scrounge for food. The
majority of these workers are poor and many lost
their possessions while fleeing. Stuck for days at     MORE
border camps, unable to arrange or pay for their
                                                         Bridging the Gap in Bangladesh
own transportation back home, many of them
were not even sure where their next meal would           A New Life in Bangladesh
come from.   In late March 2011, the
Government of Bangladesh requested World
Bank help to support its efforts to bring these workers home
and help them establish new livelihoods.                              More Results

Approach
The project was the first by the World Bank to use fast track
emergency procedures to finance costs associated with the
repatriation and livelihood restoration of the Bangladeshi
                                                                     36,102
                                                                     returnees have been paid their
migrant workers who fled Libya.                                      stipend

The Government of Bangladesh, with the aid of IOM, carried
out repatriation operations from the onset of the conflict. 

                                                                     50,000
Under the project, IOM set up the basic administrative
elements of a cash transfer system, including the design and
implementation of a public information campaign, and a call
center to facilitate the registration and verification of the       Takas were disbursed to bank
                                                                    accounts within 3 days of
migrant workers returning from Libya since end-February             vertification
2011.  The call center operates from 9am to 9pm, six days a
week, with 17 numbers available for the returnees to call and
obtain appointments for in-person verification. Of those who
are verified, a cash grant of BDT 50,000 (or around US$685)         MORE INFORMATION
is transferred directly to their respective bank accounts.           Project Documents

                                                                     Returnees Feature Story
Results                                                              Crisis Feature Story
Of the total returnees from Libya, 36,502 have been                  International Organization for
registered and 36,102 paid to date under the project.  There         Migration
are a remaining 400 pending cases that are being
                                                                     Bangladesh Country Site
considered and settled through a government grievance
committee.                                                           End Poverty in South Asia Blog
At every step of the process, good governance and                      Connect with us on Facebook
transparent delivery procedures have been given priority,
                                                                       Talk to us on Twitter
along with the need to expedite the process and quickly
disburse the much-needed cash grants.  Returnees’ on-
arrival support included greeting of the flights on the tarmac,
assisting with the registration and immigration processing,
and immediate medical attention.  Returnees were provided
food and water and BDT 1000 for onward transport and arrangements were made for shuttle
bus services to the main bus and train terminals in the city.
 
A comprehensive database of all returnees was developed by IOM from the registration
conducted by the Bureau of Manpower Employment and Training (BMET) at the airport.  An
extensive outreach campaign was launched to inform the returnees of the program and
numbers for the call centre were disseminated through print and electronic media and direct
SMS to returnees’ phone numbers.  Each returnee was directed to call the centre in order to
obtain an appointment for in-person verification with all their relevant documents. This was the
last step in the exhaustive process of identification of actual returnees before the cash grant of
BDT 50,000 was transferred directly to their accounts.
Voices


     I have a chance to rebuild my life, as the grant helped me get
   back on my feet.  
                    — Md Faruk Ahmed, Repatriated Migrant Worker



Bank Contribution
Of the World Bank’s US$40 million in support, US$12.6 million went towards retroactively
financing the airfares for about 10,000 Bangladeshi returnees who were otherwise unable to
pay for their travel home. Another US$26.5 million in World Bank financing went towards a
one-time cash grant to help returning Bangladeshi workers meet immediate needs and a start
toward restoring their livelihoods. 
 
Partners
During the conflict in Libya, the Bank coordinated closely with the Government of Bangladesh,
IOM, and the international donor community in order to identify immediate needs and financing
gaps.  The IDA credit financed the cost of airfare for 10,000 returnees, while the remaining
costs, including assistance in the transit camps, were financed by IOM and other donors. The
Bureau of Manpower, Employment and Training (BMET) under the Ministry of Expatriates’
Welfare and Overseas Employment served as the implementing agency and contracted directly
with IOM to implement the repatriation and cash transfer activities on the ground.

Toward the Future
Overseas migration and remittances play an important role in poverty reduction by contributing
to the country’s foreign exchange reserves and raising household consumption.  While the BDT
50,000 cash grant provided under the project will help the returning workers meet immediate
basic subsistence needs, it does not offer a longer term solution to problems facing migrant
workers.
The World Bank, with the help of the Japanese Social Development Fund has made two
grants available to pilot a medium-term program for poor unskilled workers who returned from
Libya and other migrant workers to: (i) offer safe migration services, and (ii) to re-integrate
returning migrants with the domestic economy.   These grants will be implemented with the
help of BRAC, a well-known local non-governmental organization (NGO) with a vast country
network that works on migration services and implements a large training and microenterprise
initiative for self-employment. Together the two grants from the Japan Social Development
Fund will help pilot the mechanisms for a job intermediation system for poor unskilled workers
in Bangladesh.
