           DominicanRepublic: HIV/AIDS PreventionAnd ControlProject
                                      (Loan 7065-DO)
                       ProposedAmendmentto the LoanAgreement


 1.     This memorandum seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to amend the
Loan Agreement for the HIV/AIDS Prevention And Control Project. The proposed
amendment i s inresponse to a request from the Government o f the DominicanRepublic
(GODR), on behalfo fthe Dominican Republic (the Borrower), datedMay 28,2004, to
permit the reallocation o f loan proceeds to help rehabilitate the health care infrastructure
inthe Jimani region, locatedinthe border areawithHaiti, that was severely affectedby
devastating floods inM a y 2004.

BACKGROUND

2.      A Loan in the amount o f US$25 million for the Dominican Republic HIV/AIDS
Prevention and Control Project, part o f the first phase o f the Multi Country HIVIAIDS
Prevention and Control Adaptable Program Lending (APL) for the Caribbean Region, was
approved by the Board o f Directors on June 28, 2001. The objectives o f the Project are to
assist GODR in curbing the spread o f HIV/AIDS through the scaling up o f programs and
activities targeted to high-risk groups, expanding awareness about HIV/AIDS among the
general population, and strengthening institutional capacity to ensure the effectiveness and
sustainability o f the effort.

3.      Project implementation i s progressing satisfactorily. Since February 2002, when
the Loan Agreement became effective, the project has supported GODR's efforts to put
inplacethe necessarybuildingblocks for the implementation ofa comprehensive and
multisectoral strategy against HIV/AIDS.

PROPOSEDAMENDMENT AND RATIONALE

4.      The proposed amendment would incorporate the necessary legal provisions,
including the expansion o f the Project's breadth o f activity to finance the rehabilitation and
re-equipping o f the health care infrastructure inthe Jimani region, and the creation o f a new
category o f disbursements to accommodate the above mentioned reallocation o f
US$200,000 as requested.

5.      The proposed amendments are consistent with the overall objectives o f the Project
and can be implemented within its structure. In addition, they are justified inview o f the
emergency situation in the Jimani Region, one o f the poorest in the country, that i s
hindering the access to basic health services, including HIV/AIDS prevention and control
Borrower (Technical Secretariat o f the Presidency and Health Secretariat) and the
implementing agency (COPRESIDA), and have been agreed upon.


7.      A copy o fthe draft Amendment Letter is available uponrequest.

The World Bank                                                    1818 H Street                 Senderphone
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT            Washington, DC 20433           SenderFax
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                             USA

                                                                                        June 30,2004


            H i s Excellency
            Carlos Despradel
            Secretario TCcnico de la Presidencia
            Secretariado TCcnico de la Presidencia
            PalacioNacional
            Avenida MCxico
            Santo Domingo, Rephblica Dominicana


                              Re:     Loan No.7065-DO (HIV/AIDS Preventionand Control Project)
                                      Second Amendment to the LoanAneement

            Excellency:

                     Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the DominicanRepublic (the Borrower) and
            the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated June 29, 2001 with
            regardto the above-captioned Project (the LoanAgreement).

                     We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your letter ofrequest dated May 28, 2004
            and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement
            so as to incorporate appropriate provisions to help the Borrower address the natural disaster
            emergency situation which recently took place inthe Jimani region.

                     Consequently, the LoanAgreement i s hereby amended as follows:

            1.       Section 1.02. Paragraph (g) i s hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as
            follows:

                     "(g)    "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) and Category (10) set
            forth inthe table inPart A.l o f Schedule 1to this Agreement;"

            2. '     Section 1.02. A new definition i s hereby incorporatedto read as follows:

                     "(w)    "Emergency Projects" means projects consisting of the provision of the necessary
           goods, works and services for the rehabilitation of the Borrower's health facilities in the Jimani
           region, including: rehabilitation o f physical infrastructure; provision o f medical equipment; water
           purification and the strengtheningo f the biomedical waste management capacity."

           3,       Schedule 1. The table inparagraphA.1o f Schedule 1i s hereby amended and replacedto
           read inits entirety as set forth inAnnex 1to this AmendmentLetter.

           4.       Schedule 2. The first paragraphis hereby amended and replaced to read inits entirety as
           follows:

                    "The objective o f the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (a) reducing the spread of the
           HIV/AIDS epidemic through: (i) increase inhealth prevention and control programs targeted
                                              the
           in particular to highrisk groups of population; (ii) expansion of awareness with respect to
                                                                   the

                                                 -L-


 HIV/AIDS infection and prevention amongst the Borrower's population; and (iii)the
 strengthening o f the institutional capacity o f the Participating Entities and the Participating
 Agencies to ensure the effectiveness and the sustainability of the Project; and (b) carrying out
 Emergency Projects."

 5.       Schedule 2. A new Part Di s hereby incorporatedto readinits entirety as follows:

 "Part D:         Emergency Subproiects

 Carrying out o f Emergency Subprojects"

 6.      Schedule 4, Section I.Paragraph C.2. i s hereby amended and replaced to read in its
 entirety as follows:

 "Shopping


         Goods (other than the anti-retroviral drug and the baby formula supplements referred to
inPartA.4 (a) and (c) ofthe Project, respectively, anti-tuberculosis drugs, vaccines andcondoms)
 estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
 exceed $2,790,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis o f
international or national shopping procedures, at the Borrower's option, in accordance with the
provisions o f paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 o f the Guidelines.


7.       Schedule 4, Section I.A new Part C.5 i s hereby incorporated to read in its entirety as
follows:

"Direct Contracting

         Works under Emergency Subprojects estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per
contract and goods under Emergency Subprojects estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent
per contract, which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for Direct Contracting may be
procured in accordance with the provisions o f said procurement method."

8.       Schedule 4, Section I, D 1. (a) i s hereby amended to read inits entirety as follows:
                                Part

"Prior Review


         (a)      With respect to: (i) contract for goods to be awarded under Parts B.l and
                                     each
C.3 o f this Section; (ii)each contract for goods to be awarded under Part C.2 o f this section (iv)
each contract for goods and works to be awarded under Part C.5 o f this Section; and (v) the first
two contracts for works to be awardedunder Part C.l (b) o f this Section, the procedures set forth
inparagraphs 2 and 3 ofAppendix 1to the Guidelines shall apply."



         Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating this
letter inthe spaces provided below. This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts
each of which shall be an original.

                                                  -3-




        Upon confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us. The provisions set
forth in this amendment letter shall become effective as of the date o f this letter upon receipt by
the Bank o f one fully executed original o f this amendment letter.




                                         Very truly yours,

                               INTERNATIONAL BANKFOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT




                            BY
                                         Caroline Anstey
                                               Director
                              Caribbean Country Management Unit
                            Latin America and the CaribbeanRegion




AGREED:

DOMINICANREPUBLIC


By:


Name:


Date:

                                         -4-


                                                                        Annex 1

                                 Amount ofthe        % of
                                 Loan Allocated    Expenditures
      Category               (ExmessedinDollars)   to be Financed

 (1)  Works                        1,500,000       85%

      Goods (other thanthe
      anti-retroviral drug
      andbaby formula
      supplementsunder
      Part A.4 (a) and (c)
      ofthe Project,
      respectively,
      anti-tuberculosis
      drugs, vaccines,
      condoms andnon-
      durable goods)              4,606,000        75%

(3)  Vaccines, anti-
     tuberculosis drugs
     and condoms                  3,334,000        80% untildisbursements
                                                   under this Category
                                                   havereachedan amount
                                                   of $2,500,000; and 50%
                                                   thereafter

(4)  Consultants' services

     (a)      Information,
              Educational         1,840,000        80%
              and Communication
              Programs

     (b)      Other services
              under the           7,800,000        100%
              Project

(5)  Training                     1,840,000        75%

(6)  Project Administration
     costs                        2,o 00,o 00      80% untildisbursements
                                                   under this Category
                                                   havereachedan amount
                                                   of $1,000,000; and 50%
                                                  thereafter

(7)  Fee                           250,000        Amount due under
                                                   Section 2.04'ofthis
                                                  Agreement

                                    -5-


                             Amount of the       % of
                             Loan Allocated     Expenditures
Category                {Expressed inDollars)   to be Financed

Premia for Interest Rate     0                  Amount due under
Caps and Interest Rate                          Section 2.09 (d) of
Collars                                         this Agreement

Unallocated                   1,630,000

Goods, works and             200,000            85%
consultants' services
under Emergengcy Projects


       TOTAL                 25,000,000

