Report No. PID9848
Project Name                     Dominican Republic-HIV/AIDS Prevention and...
Control Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean (LCR)
Sector                           Other Population; Health & Nutrition
Project ID                       DOPE71505
Borrower                         Government of the Dominican Republic
Implementing Agency              National HIV/AIDS Council/COPRESIDA
Address                          Edificio Centro de Desarrollo de Recursos
Humanos en Salud
(CEDERHSA) Plaza de la Salud
Contact Person: Dr. Luis Montalvo,
Director COPRESIDA
Phone: (809) 683-1526, Fax: (809) 472-2919,
E-mail: copresida@hotmail.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID updated                 August 3, 2001
Board approval                   June 28, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background:
The HIV prevalence rate among the adult population is estimated at 2-3w, suggesting
that HIV/AIDS is in a transition from a concentrated to a widespread epidemic.
Only a fraction of HIV/AIDS cases are reported. The Sexually Transmitted
Infections and AIDS Control Directorate (DIGECITSS) of the Secretariat of Public
Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS) estimates that approximately 120,000 people
in the DR are living with HIV--about nine times the total reported accumulated
cases--and that over 16,000 have already died as a consequence of AIDS. In 1998,
nine hundred cases of AIDS deaths were reported to SESPAS, making this disease the
leading cause of death from infectious diseases. Other studies performed on the
general population indicate that AIDS is the principal cause of death among women
of reproductive age.
The principal means of HIV transmission in the DR is sexual transmission--in
particular, heterosexual intercourse, which accounts for about 70t of cases.    The
majority (819-) of HIV/AIDS cases occur among individuals in their prime
reproductive and economic ages, i.e., between 15 to 44 years. The ratio of male to
female has varied, and there has recently been a major increase among young women.
It is estimated that 4,000 pregnant women who have prenatal checkups are infected
with HIV, and may deliver 1,300 infected children in the absence of a program to
reduce vertical transmission. It is estimated that 2.5%- of the sexually active
population, between 2%- and 9%- of commercial sex workers (CSW), and 11%- of men who
have sexual relations with men (MSM) are infected with HIV. Furthermore, 6%- of
persons who have checkups for sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are infected.
Despite efforts made in the DR to control the epidemic, conditions still exist for
it to spread rapidly. These conditions are expressed in high rates of infection of
sexually transmitted diseases; high rates of births among adolescent and young
women; active migration to and from the country; a growing number of CSW; hidden



homosexuality and bisexuality; and stigmatization of the disease that keeps it from
being dealt with openly. The existence of a large and hard-to-reach migrant
population compound the situation. Over 2 million tourists visit the country each
year and there are an estimated 500,000 Haitians residing legally and illegally in
the country, most of them young men who migrate to work in the construction and
agriculture sectors. Country projections indicate that if current trends continue,
HIV prevalence could reach 5t of the adult population by 2005.     Studies performed in
other parts of the world indicate that when the epidemic reaches these levels, HIV
spreads much more rapidly and the country's economic growth is reduced by more than
lt  per year.
The reproductive rate of HIV depends upon the time a person remains infectious, the
risk of transmission per sexual contact and/or per infected needles, and the rate
of acquisition of sexual partners. An HIV-infected person remains infectious about
10 years and his/her capacity to transmit the infection is greatly influenced by
behavior. Thus, the challenge facing the DR is to reduce the reproductive rate of
transmission by inducing positive behavioral changes in the entire population, but
especially in high-risk groups.
The GODR recognizes that the HIV/AIDS epidemic puts the economic and social
development of the country in serious jeopardy and considers reducing the rate of
HIV transmission a national priority. Apart from having an economic impact on the
country due to disability and years of life lost prematurely, HIV/AIDS imposes
substantial direct costs on the health system. If the cost of treating an AIDS
patient remains constant at the 1998 rate of US$5,000 per year, then the costs of
hospital care will increase over 509 from US$4.8 million in 1998 to US$7.4 million
in 2005. If anti-retroviral therapy were included, the total cost of treatment
would reach nearly US$52.6 million in 2005, or 18.2t of the health budget. The
situation is compounded by the emergence of opportunistic diseases associated with
HIV/AIDS (some 5,440 cases of tuberculosis due to AIDS are expected for the period
2001-2005). Finally, besides the direct toll on the infected population and on the
health system, there is the tragedy of an increased number of orphans--a number that
could double from 18,500 in 1999 to nearly 38,200 in 2005.
2. Project Objectives:
This project would assist the Government of the Dominican Republic (GODR) in
curbing the spread of the Human Immune-deficiency (HIV) epidemic through the
scaling up of programs and activities targeted to high-risk groups; expanding
awareness about HIV/Acquired Immune-deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) among the general
population; and strengthening institutional capacity to ensure the effectiveness
and sustainability of the effort.
3. Project Description:
Component #1: Promotion/Prevention to Reduce HIV Transmission US$17.20 million.
Under this component, the project would support the development of five cost-
effective priority interventions: a) Information, education, and communication
(IEC) activities to reduce HIV/AIDS transmission, with emphasis on high-risk
groups; b) Condom social marketing programs, with emphasis on high-risk groups; c)
Improved management and treatment of STIs; d) Interventions to prevent mother-to
child transmission of HIV; and e) quality control of HIV testing in blood bank and
laboratories.
Component #2: Diagnosis, Basic Care and Support of Individuals Affected by
HIV/AIDS US$4.8 million. This component will support the implementation of the
following diagnostic and basic care interventions aiming at reducing disability and
-2 -



death due to HIV/AIDS, reducing the reservoir of HIV/AIDS, and mitigating the
suffering of children orphaned by HIV/AIDS: a) Organization of voluntary HIV
testing with pre- and post-test counseling services; b) Support of home care for
HIV/AIDS patients; c) Establishment of basic AIDS Health Care Units; d)
Implementation of directly observed treatment (DOT) regimens for tuberculosis (TB)
patients; and e) Support to children orphaned by AIDS.
Component #3: Strengthening HIV/AIDS and STI Surveillance; and Project
Coordination, Monitoring, Evaluation and Research US$7.75million. This component,
support:   Improvements in the HIV/AIDS and STI disease surveillance system; and
provide support for project coordination, monitoring, evaluation and research.
4. Project Financing: The total cost of the proposed program is estimated at
US$30.0 million.
5. Project Implementation:
The project will be executed by COPRESIDA, and its Directive Council would serve as
an advisory Project Steering Committee. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) that
would be part of COPRESIDA's organizational structure would support the Director of
COPRESIDA. The PCU would be comprised of a Technical Coordination Team, physically
located at COPRESIDA.
The Administrative-Financial Unit of the Executive Commission for Health Sector
Reform (CERSS), that is charge of managing the implementation of the ongoing WB-
supported Provincial Health Services Project (Ln. 4272-DO) would also support
project implementation in coordination with the PCU's Technical Coordination Team.
All public sectors related project activities in the project would be implemented
by the respective Line State Secretariats, IDSS, and their HIV/AIDS units, as
mandated by the Presidential Decree that established COPRESIDA. The Director of
such units in each sector secretariat will oversee the operations in their
respective State Secretariats and in the IDSS would be accountable for their
project-related activities and results. In addition, State Secretariats and IDSS
would actively involve and support their provincial or local level offices to
implement the project in their jurisdictions. The Line State Secretariats would
present their HIV/AIDS plan for each year to the COPRESIDA's PCU.
The civil society organizations, private sector groups, and NGOs would participate
in the project in two ways. When preparing their annual plans, the sectoral State
Secretariats would involve the related civil society groups/private sector
agencies/NGOs in developing their HIV/AIDS plans. For project implementation,
civil society organizations, private sector and NGOs could be contracted following
criteria and procedures in the Operations Manual. The COPRESIDA's PCU would
assist, facilitate and supervise implementation of these activities. The criteria
to be used for contracting these organizations would include: technical and
efficiency criteria; cost-effectiveness criteria; assessments of their
implementation capacity, record keeping arrangements, experience and reputation of
the sponsors in technical, organizational and financial matters
6. Project Sustainability:
Three factors contribute to increasing the likelihood of program sustainability
after project completion: (i) there is a very clear political commitment at the
highest level of the GODR: HIV/AIDS is considered a matter of national priority
given the enormous and increasing economic and social cost caused by the epidemic;
(ii) because the process has been participatory, the beneficiaries and the
stakeholders have a great sense of ownership of the PEN, which would likely
continue upon project closing; (iii) the project was designed to ensure that its
- 3 -



incremental recurrent costs can be and are picked up by the health system.
7. Lessons from Past Operations:
More than two decades of experience in attempting to control the spread of HIV and
treat AIDS victims shows that successful efforts share key features:
- Government commitment in placing the epidemic in open discussion, accepting
that a problem exists and that the means of transmission are known, reducing
policy barriers and striving for reduction of the stigma associated with
infection;
- cooperation and collaboration among different groups and sectors in which all
stakeholders including PLWHA, religious groups, industry, NGOs, health care
professionals play separate but coordinated roles and recognition that public
sector agencies cannot address all of the issues involved;
- decentralized and participatory approaches to prevention and treatment to
ensure that responses are tailored to the needs of specific population groups
and regions and to ensure sustainability through greater ownership. Adopting
a decentralized and participatory approach implies substantial additional
costs and time (capacity building, empowering regions and communities) that
must be understood and accounted for;
- the creation of a National AIDS Commission is necessary to anchor government
commitment and to coordinate the country's HIV/AIDS response, especially if a
decentralized and inter sectoral approach is adopted;
- actions that influence the socioeconomic determinants of behavior that make
people vulnerable to infection and that seek to change behavior directly,
especially of the young;
- inclusion of treatment and care in country projects and the involvement of
PLWHA in policy making and the implementation of activities would lower
taboos, raise hope, openness and acceptance of the condition;
- adequate HIV/AIDS surveillance systems must be strengthened for effective
monitoring and evaluation of the impact of HIV/AIDS interventions; and
- adopt good experiences in WB financed projects related to implementation
procedures that favor flexibility, learning and innovation, and
responsiveness to opportunities and demand.
8. Government Commitment:
The GODR has given concrete expression to its commitment to coordinate and multiply
efforts to mitigate the HIV/AIDS epidemic by establishing COPRESIDA at the
beginning of 2001. COPRESIDA operates under the leadership of a prominent national
health and political personality and a multi-sectoral commission, within the office
of the President. The preparation of the proposed HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control
Project was carried out with the direct involvement of COPRESIDA members in all
aspects of the project design. The project closely mirrors the priorities
established by the 2000-2004 PEN, which was put together through a participatory
process and benefits from a high degree of ownership from all the stakeholders
involved.
9. Environmental Aspects:
Category B. See Annex on environmental aspects.
10. Program Objective Category: The category for this project is Poverty Reduction
and Human Resource.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager:            Patricio Marquez
- 4-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-0163
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending August 3, 2001.
Annex to the PID. Dominican Republic HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Medical Waste Management Assessment in the Dominican Republic
The recent enactment of two new laws in the DR are an encouraging sign that
the GODB is committed both to protecting the environment and to reducing the
risks posed by the improper management of medical waste. These laws provide
a new framework for managing infectious and other medical waste that poses
health risks to patients and health care staff, as well as to people who are
exposed to such waste outside health facilities.
The solid waste produced in health facilities is potentially hazardous,
infectious, contagious, or toxic, producing the risk of the spread of
diseases.
The proposed HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project, building on the World
Bank-financed Provincial Health Systems Project, would support activities
related to the handling of medical waste from patients infected with HIV/AIDS
in the Dominican Republic. Specifically, it would support (1) an assessment
of medical care waste handling and disposal related to HIV/AIDS programs and
activities; (2) the development and adoption of a manual to address proper
handling and disposal of medical waste; and (30 the training of health
personnel associated with HIV/AIDS prevention and control programs and
activities supported under the project.
The following sections of this document:
- Describe what constitutes medical waste and discusses the management of
medical waste;
- Provide an overview of the new legal and institutional framework for
addressing the problem of medical waste in the DR;
- Discuss investments financed under the ongoing WB-financed Provincial
Health Systems Project in the Dominican Republic; and
- Identify how the proposed HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project will
contribute to addressing the problem of medical waste in the Dominican
Republic.
A. What Constitutes Medical Waste
-5-



Medical waste is defined as any material disposed of by a health facility,
whether it be in solid, liquid, or gaseous state. Health facilities are
understood to be public hospitals, private centers, clinical laboratories,
pharmacies, etc.
According to the international standards dictated by the WHO, medical waste
falls into the following categories:
General medical waste. This category includes paper and byproducts, plastic
and glass products, and non-infectious materials.
Special biomedical waste. This is infectious or other waste produced by a
health facility that poses health risks both within the health facility and
beyond it.
Infectious biomedical waste. This includes blood, secretions, needles,
syringes, vaccines, and pointed or sharp materials that may have been
contaminated with infectious agents. Preventive measures in handling and
final disposal of such waste are important.
Chemical waste. This includes disinfectants and other chemicals used for
examinations, research, cleaning, etc.. Special regulations are required for
the handling and final disposal of such chemical waste.
Radioactive waste. This is waste contaminated with radioactive substances
used in diagnostic examinations or special therapeutic procedures. The
elimination of radioactive waste requires specialized procedures because of
its hazardous nature.
Anatomical waste. This consists of corpses or human remains from births,
abortions, mutilations, or surgical operations. Anatomical waste poses a
great risk spreading infection. Both forensic medicine regulations and
ethical considerations are important in the handling of such waste.
Internationally accepted standards establish a total production of medical
waste between 3.3 and 11 pounds per bed per day. Eighty -percent of this
consists of general medical waste and the remaining 20- consists of special
biomedical waste, approximately 14t of which corresponds to infectious waste.
A study performed in 1992 by the Universidad Aut6noma de Santo Domingo, based
on the analysis of a sample of 29 public and private health facilities in the
DR, found that the production of medical waste per bed per day was 5.5
pounds.
Internationally accepted standards for the W ages of waste produced by
various components of health facilities are as follows: food service (50%);
hospitalization service (18%); maternity service (8%); emergency service and
orthopedics (8%); surgery (5%); and administrative, diagnostic and other
services (119). The 1992 study of 29 public and private health facilities in
the Dominican Republic found the following distribution of waste production
by type of service: (25.6%); kitchen (20.8%); surgery (11%), and outside
consultation (9.2%).
B. Approaches to the Management of Medical Waste
This management of medical waste requires special care that requires the
provision of information and training to the staff of a health facility that
are involved in the various aspects of waste production and management. The
waste management process has several phases, which control waste from the
point of production to its final disposal, as detailed below:
- Classification. Classification of waste at the point of production
(i.e., separating infectious and hazardous waste from the conventional
waste stream with the goal of reducing the amount of waste that needs to be
specially treated) makes it possible to reduce the volume of infectious
waste and minimize treatment costs.
- Internal collection. Internal collection refers to the use of special
containers, designed for the type of waste to be handled, placed near where
- 6 -



the waste is produced and used only once.
- Internal transfer. The shortest route between the point of production
and intermediate storage of waste should be selected for the internal
transfer of waste. Waste containers should be checked to ensure that they
are closed. Special measures should be taken to protect the staff involved
in transfers.
- Storage. The storage place where the containers with waste are held
before the treatment and/or final disposal of the waste should be equipped
with hermetically sealed containers.
- External transport. The transport of waste from the point of
intermediate storage to the waste treatment point should be done using
special vehicles that can be disinfected.
- Treatment. Waste treatment includes methods, techniques, or procedures
that change the characteristics of waste, reducing or eliminating the
possibility that the waste will affect people's health or the environment.
The WHO has identified several procedures for medical waste treatment:
- Incineration. Incineration involves burning waste in a medium under
controlled conditions to oxidize the carbon and hydrogen present in the
waste. This method reduces the volume of solid waste by 80-95%. Although
incineration can produce environmental toxins such as dioxin if adequate
controls are not adopted, it is often recommended because it is the only
waste treatment method applicable to all types of biomedical waste.
- Steam sterilization. This method involves submitting the waste to
steam inside an Autoclave, at an adequate temperature and pressure and for
a determined time.
- Gas sterilization. This method consists of destroying pathogens
present in waste by placing them in a compressed air chamber in which
sterilizing agents are introduced, such as ethylene oxide or formaldehyde.
- Chemical disinfection. This process involves treating waste with
liquid chemical disinfectants.
- Other methods of sterilization. Other methods of waste treatment that
are less commonly used are including exposure to ultraviolet radiation or
microwaves.
C. The Dominican Republic's New Legal and Institutional Framework for
Handling Medical Waste
The enactment of the General Law on the Environment and Natural Resources in
August 2000 and the enactment of the General Health Law on March 8, 2001,
that was prepared with support of the World Bank-financed Health Services
Project, are an auspicious development in the DR. The enactment of these laws
indicates that environmental protection and the improving the management of
medical waste have become priorities for the GODR. As discussed below, the
laws also provide a clear legal and institutional framework for addressing
the management of potentially hazardous, infectious, contagious, or toxic
waste produced in health facilities.
General Law on the Environment and Natural Resources
The purpose of the General Law on the Environment and Natural Resources was
to establish guidelines for the conservation, protection, improvement, and
restoration of the environment and natural resources, thus assuring their
sustainable use and to create institutions to take the lead in addressing
issues related to the protection of the environment and natural resources.
The General Law on the Environment and Natural Resources created the State
Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources as the lead agency for
environmental management. In addition, it designated the National Council for
the Environment and Natural Resources as the body responsible for programming
and evaluating policies and for a biodiversity conservation strategy. This
- 7 -



council is composed of the State Secretariats of Environment and Natural
Resources, of Agriculture and Livestock, of Public Health and Social
Assistance, Education, Public Works, Armed Forces, Tourism, Industry and
Commerce, Foreign Affairs, Labor, along with the Municipal League, the
Natural Resources Institute, and regional representatives of NGOs, peasant
organizations, universities (public and private), and the national business
sector.
Responsibility for the handling and disposal of waste water is distributed by
territoriality: the Santo Domingo Aqueduct and Sewer Corporation (CASAD) of
the National District; the Santiago Aqueduct and Sewer (CORAASAN) of the
province of Santiago; and the National Institute of Drinking Water and Sewers
(INAPA) in the country's other provinces.
Several special offices and commissions created by decree also have
objectives related to environmental preservation, including the Commission
for the Study of Causes of Environmental Pollution (Decree 2596-72); National
Council of Radiology Protection (Decree 413-91); National Commission to
Monitor Agreements of the United Nations Conference on the Environment and
the development of the "Land Summit" (Decree 340-92); Office for the Reform
and Modernization of the Drinking Water and Sanitation Sector (Decree 203-
98); National Institute of Environmental Protection (Decree 216-98); and the
Coordinating Commission of the Natural Resources and Environment Sector,
created by Decree 152-98.
General Health Law
The General Health Law enacted on March 8, 2001, incorporates major changes
in the DR's health care organization and financing. Provisions of the
General Health Law pertaining to the management of medical waste, which
supersede provision of previous laws dealing with this topic, are summarized
below.
SECTION IV--Solid Waste
Art. 46. The State Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance
(SESPAS), in coordination with the State Secretariat of Environment and
Natural Resources and other relevant institutions, shall prepare the official
regulations that govern the disposal and management of solid waste whose use,
collection, treatment, holding, recon version, industrialization, transport,
storage, elimination, or final disposal may be hazardous to the population's
health.
Art. 47. The institutions of the health system and all those health
facilities which, due to their operations, utilize toxic or radioactive
materials or substances, contaminants or other substances that may spread
elements which are pathogenic or harmful to health, should have waste
elimination systems developed in terms of the pertinent regulation prepared
by the SESPAS, in coordination with the State Secretariat of Environment and
Natural Resources and other relevant institutions. Medical waste shall be
stored separately, technically treated in the establishment of origin and/or
delivered to the corresponding municipality or institution, as the case may
be, for transport and proper final disposal.
Art. 48. Health authorities must inform the State Secretariat of Environment
and Natural Resources about those establishments or places which constitute a
hazard to the health or life of the population due to undue, unhygienic
accumulation of solid waste, so that said Secretariat may order them to be
cleaned and may execute the corresponding administrative and safety measures.
SECTION V--Disinfection and other Measures
Art. 67. Those substances or objects that, by favoring the spread of diseases
and causing harm to people's health, are considered hazardous shall be
handled, sterilized, or destroyed by their owners or those in charge, or by
- 8 -



the health authority itself, following the instructions and regulations that
are prepared for this purpose by the health authority, in coordination with
the relevant environmental authority and without jeopardizing compliance with
prevailing environmental regulations and measures.
Paragraph. SESPAS shall collaborate with the State Secretariat of
Environment and Natural Resources on the preparation of a list of hazardous
substances and products, on the constant updating of this list, and on the
preparation of regulations governing the waste management of these
substances.
Art. 68. The owners, directors or heads of health or medical care facilities
and other places where human groups stay or pass through, should avoid the
spread of transmissible diseases within their establishment or towards the
community, and shall be responsible for ensuring that the establishment has
the necessary elements to avoid such spread, and that the staff of their
agency carry out prophylactic practices in a timely and proper manner.
Art. 100. SESPAS is responsible for equipping the institutions or health
establishments and, together with the advisory unit of the National
Commission for the Accreditation of Clinics and Private Hospitals, for
accrediting these institutions, ensuring the application of rules related to
the minimum requirements which, according to their classification, said
institutions should meet, with regard to physical installations, equipment,
personnel, organization and operation, to ensure that the user receives a
proper level of care, even in the case of disasters.
Paragraph I. In coordination with the corresponding institutions of
the national health system, SESPAS shall regulate, by resolution, the
equipping, operation and accreditation of health establishments and promote
quality assurance, which shall be carried out through the assessment of
public and private establishments, by rules and mandatory minimum criteria,
and of their staff.
Paragraph II. SESPAS shall establish the general regulatory guidelines based
upon which the duties assigned in this article shall be complied with.
Art. 101. The professionals or technical directors of health establishments
in which natural or artificial radioactive material, or equipment designed
for the emission of ionized radiation for diagnostic, medical therapy or
dental purposes or for scientific research, is used should seek a permit from
SESPAS that endorses their activities, without jeopardizing the duties of the
State Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources in this regard.
Art. 102. The boards of directors and the administration of health
establishments shall be responsible for ensuring that staff correctly and
properly performs their duties, so as not to expose the health or life of
patients to unnecessary risk due to the lack of technical or therapeutic
elements for reasons of unhealthy environmental conditions.
Art. 106. Health laboratories shall be directed by an expert in the subject
who is duly accredited in the corresponding discipline and who shall be
responsible for the establishment's progress, compliance with biosafety
regulations, suitability of operations, and precision and quality in reports
issued on the results of analyses.
Paragraph. Authorized staff who perform analyses or special testing in
public, private, civilian, military, and other laboratories, should adjust
their work to the technical regulations stipulated by the Laboratory and
Blood Bank Divisions of SESPAS. Said staff shall be subject to technical
control of the quality of their analyses of the aforementioned divisions.
SECTION VI - Blood Banks, Blood Transfusion Services, And Serology Control
Art. 107. The drawing of human blood, the fractionating and industrial
transformation of human blood, and the practice of any of the activities
-9-



mentioned in this article, may only be performed in blood banks and in blood
derivative plants authorized SESPAS, which shall define, through the
corresponding regulation, the rules for the installation, operation and
control of these establishments, in coordination with pertinent institutions.
Paragraph I. The supply and transfusion of blood and its derivatives
constitutes an act of legal and ethical responsibility. Doctors shall be the
health professionals trained and authorized to therapeutically prescribe
human blood, its components and derivatives, in accordance with the disease
to be treated.
Paragraph II. The institutions of the National Health System shall
ensure that their blood banks perform mandatory testing of blood and its
derivatives, according to the prevailing international regulations of WHO, as
well as pre-transfusion compatibility testing. No product may be transfused
without the respective quality certification. SESPAS shall ensure compliance
with this provision.
Paragraph III. A duly accredited staff member in terms of the nature of such
banks and centers shall direct blood banks and hemotherapy centers.
Paragraph IV. The technique of aphaeresis, as a means of fractionating to
obtain blood derivatives, may only be used by blood banks that are qualified
and expressly authorized by authority of SESPAS. This should correspond to a
concrete program, associated with the country's needs, in accordance with the
regulation prepared by SESPAS, and in coordination with institutions
specialized in this subject.
D. Related investments financed under the World Bank Provincial Health
Systems Project in the Dominican Republic
In 1999, SESPAS, requested that the Executive Commission for the Reform of
the Health Sector (Comisi6n Ejecutiva para la Reforma del Sector Salud, or
CERSS), through the WB-financed Provincial Health Systems Project and a
parallel project financed by the IDB, support the provision of technology for
the treatment and final disposal of waste in the main health facilities
around the country. As a result, the Provincial Health Systems Development
Project has invested nearly US$1 million in the DR to date, to strengthen the
medical waste management capacity of SESPAS' health care facilities. The
vast majority of the resources (apart from about US$50,000 devoted to civil
works) has been used to helped several hospitals purchase incinerators to
treat medical waste and to support training of staff in the operating of this
equipment and the management of medical waste:
- Purchase of incinerators by hospitals for the purpose of treating
medical waste. Incinerators, along with peripheral equipment (identified
containers) and services related to training in the operation and
maintenance of equipment, have already been purchased and installed in
several hospitals. They include the San Vicente de Paul Hospital in Duarte
Province, Luis Bogaert Hospital in Valverde Province, Pascasio Toribio
Piantini Hospital in Salcedo, Jaime Mota Hospital in Barahona, as well as
the Armed Forces Central Hospital, Nuestra Senora de la Altagracia Maternity
Hospital, Los Minas Maternity Hospital, Moscoso Puello Hospital, Robert Reid
Cabral Children's Hospital, and the Luis E. Aybar Complex in the city of
Santo Domingo. Of the incinerators installed, however, only two are
operating at full capacity, and it is expected that the rest will be fully
operational by June 2001. This situation is due in part to the fact that
the staff trained to operate the equipment at some hospitals have left or
taken on other functions.
- Training. Training courses in the operation and maintenance of the
medical waste incinerators and in managing medical waste within the hospital
were carried out successfully in all hospitals:
- 10 -



Training in the operation and maintenance of the medical waste incinerators
was provided to at least three people per hospital. It included training
relate to the features of the equipment (e.g., electrical installation, gas-
oil connection, ash removal) and the operation of the equipment (e.g.,
startup, shutdown of the installation, operating regulations, safety
checks),
Training in the management of medical waste within the hospital was provided
to hospital staff (20 per establishment). This course was generally well
accepted, both in terms of attendance and participation, and it has raised
expectations about improving the way in which medical waste is managed. At
most hospitals, attendance was complete, with between 25 and 30 people,
including mid-level and higher level staff, on average per course. The
exception was Los Minas Hospital, where only about 10 people (mostly
maintenance staff) attended. At Luis E. Aybar Hospital, about 50 people
attended, including nursing students who were very interested in the
subject. In some cases, technical staff, especially from central services
departments attended the course at different hospitals. At several
hospitals, the instructors were asked to repeat the talks at another time so
that staff that was not able to attend the first time could then do so.
A key challenge in the DR's health facilities is to devise mechanisms to keep
the trained personnel who work in the waste collection and storage process.
Furthermore, it was confirmed during the training process that the problem of
handling such waste in health facilities is considered a housekeeping
problem--so medical and paramedical staff does not participate in the waste
management process.
Hospitals' Strong and Weak Points in Addressing the Problem of Medical Waste
The Provincial Health Systems Development Project assessment team reported
prior to the installation of the incinerators in 2001 that there is no
management of medical waste by hospitals in the DR, with the exception of
Robert Reid Children's Hospital, where waste selection is beginning to be
performed and some clear criteria exist. In general, hospitals in the DR
exhibit the same strengths and weaknesses in addressing the problem of
medical waste:
Weak points in addressing the problem:
- All waste at the hospital is treated in the same way.
- There is no differentiation of medical waste by types, based on their
danger and/or the social alarm produced, except for the separation of
needles and sharp objects in some hospitals.
- The only type of waste that is treated differently is a placenta, which in
some centers is washed manually to keep fluids from dripping (La
Altagracia Maternity Hospital) and in others ends up in septic tanks
(Pascasio Toribio Hospital).
- Where bags are used for waste, they are only one color;
- Where bags are used, they are not as thick as is advisable (>55 m.), so
they often break.
- In most cases, sufficient means for possible waste separation are lacking.
There are no proper trash containers.
- There are no special containers for sharp or pointed objects.
- The staffs that generate waste lack proper training in the elements of
correct management. The bags are so overfilled that they cannot be
closed. Capped and uncapped needles are thrown in the bags. In some
emergency units, needles can be observed on the floor.
- Waste collection personnel are unaware of minimum safety standards for
waste management. In some cases, they do not use gloves or they use
inadequate ones, and they do not wear specific clothing for the task.
- 11 -



Bags are not handled correctly (e.g., bags are sometimes carried on the
shoulders).
- The transport of waste from the units to the waste dump is sometimes done
in vehicles, sometimes not.
- In waste dumps, it is common to find a large quantity of waste that has
been thrown out without use of plastic bags.
- With the exception of centers whose installations have a municipal storage
container, waste storage sites are in poor conditions. They lack doors and
allow the access of children and animals. They lack cleaning hoses and/or
fire extinguishers.
Strong points in addressing the problem:
- There is awareness in hospitals of the issue of waste, both by personnel
and management. Awareness is not as strong among janitorial and trash
collection staff, especially because they are unaware of the risk.
- There is an important potential among persons interested in participating
in and doing something about waste management.
- There is external awareness about the current way in which waste is
eliminated, both among the public and authorities.
- A credible process has begun, aimed at improving waste management. The
installation of incineration plants in the seven hospitals is a sign of
this.
- A draft plan for Hospital Hygiene Standards developed by SESPAS has been
put in place.
Conclusions
The Provincial Health Systems Project assessment team concluded that
implementation of a waste policy for any hospital in the DR will come up
against two essential difficulties: (i) material means, and (ii) the
awareness and preparation of staff. The assessment team made the following
recommendations currently under implementation with respect to improving the
preparation of staff:
- Create a Waste Management Commission in each hospital. Each hospital's
Waste Management Commission should include staff from different
occupations who participate in the hospital's daily operations or in that
environment--i.e., an epidemiologist, a nurse, a janitor, and an engineer--
and should be charged with preparing a Waste Plan for the hospital that
establishes waste generation points, collection routes, storage points,
and waste management responsibilities for various parties.
- Offer hospital staff training in waste management. Staff should be
offered a three to four hours training course on waste management that is
tailored to their particular needs. For example, maintenance and
janitorial staff are at special risk in handling waste. Nursing staff and
nursing students (very important) could benefit from training related to
the generation of medical waste.
- Involve outside consultants. Outside consultants should be involved in
the presentation of training courses and subsequently to provide support
to the Waste Management Commission in: (i) the establishment of an
initial work plan, (ii) follow-up/correction, and (iii) final evaluation.
E. The Proposed HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
As suggested earlier, public health problems generated by the management of
medical waste affect the hospital population--that is, medical and paramedical
staff, patients (and visitors), and service employees--but also affect the
population outside the hospital. One of the main concerns regarding medical
waste in the DR is the possible transmission of diseases such as HIV/AIDS or
hepatitis B through wounds caused by contaminated needles. The population
- 12 -



groups at greatest risk from this are: (i) patients and health personnel;
(ii) staff of hospital support services (trash collectors, treatment plant
operators, etc.); and (iii) patients at high risk of contracting infections
(e.g., people with diabetes, people with AIDS; drug addicts).
The HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project, building upon and complementing
the activities supported under the Provincial Health Services Project,
contemplates interventions under Component 2 to reduce HIV/AIDS transmission,
aimed at protecting high-risk human groups such as patients and health staff
within and outside hospitals, preserving the environment by establishing
proper systems and processes for the management and treatment of contaminated
hospital waste. Specifically, it would support: (i) an assessment of medical
care waste handling and disposal related to HIV/AIDS programs and activities
under the project; (ii) the revision and updating by COPRESIDA (the
Presidential Commission for HIV/AIDS), through the SESPAS' General
Directorate of Sexually Transmitted Infections and AIDS (DIGECITSS) and other
specialized institutions, of the existing manual for medical waste handling
and disposal; and (iii) the training of health personnel associated with
HIV/AIDS programs and activities under the project in the application of
these standards to protect high-risk human groups such as patients as well as
health staff in the participating facilities.
The manual would address procedures for health center staff with regard to
the handling, transport, treatment, and final disposal of medical waste, as
well as the provision of required equipment and inputs, with special
attention to the handling of sharp and pointed objects (the main risk of
viral contamination inside hospitals), beginning at the point where the waste
is generated, through the use of receptacles for the collection, storage, and
disposal of sharp and pointed objects. The receptacles for sharp objects
should be synthetic fiber containers, with a hermetically sealable
translucent cover to keep liquids from spilling. They should have rounded
edges to avoid cuts to staff involved in handling and should be identified
with international coding for biohazard us waste. Differentiated routes
within the health establishment should be defined to transport the special
containers, physical identification of routes, as well as inputs and training
for the staff responsible.
The above-mentioned activities should be complemented by the provision of
hospital waste treatment equipment financed under the Provincial Health
Services Project and the parallel IDB project, which include the training of
staff assigned to this work, with regard to the operation and maintenance of
such equipment. This treatment should ensure that the local governments of
each locality could carry out the final disposal of residual waste, without
any risk to their staff or to the environment.
F. Bibliography
Informe Ambiental and Social-BID-D-0078 1997 [IDB Environmental and Social
Report]
Marco Regulador JurUdico SESPAS. [Legal Regulatory Framework]
Consideraciones Sobre Manejo de Residuos Sanitarios en America Latina.
OPS/OMS, 1992 [Considerations on Medical Waste Management in Latin America]
Manejo de los Residuos S6lidos Hospitalarios en la Dominican Republic. UASD.
1992 [Management of Hospitals' Solid Waste]
Managing Medical Wastes in Developing Countries. OMS, 1994.
Proyecto Ley General de Salud [Draft of General Health Law]
Ley General de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales [General Law on
Environment and Natural Resources]
Analisis Comparativo Proyecto Ley General de Salud and Ley Gral. Sobre Medio
Ambiente y Recursos Naturales. CERSS 2001 [Comparative Analysis of Draft of
- 13 -



General Health Law and General Law on Environment and Natural Resources]
Descriptivo Tecnico Incinerador Saunier Duval Setri Espanola, SA [Technical
Description of Saunier Duval Setri Espanola Incinerator]
WHO Information, Fact Sheets. Backgrounder No. 1. WHO 2000.
BoletUn EstadUstico Ano 1, No.1-SESPAS 2001 [Statistical Bulletin year 11
Prior to the enactment of the General Law on the Environment and Natural Resources in
August 2000, the responsibility for environmental protection in the Dominican Republic
was shared by several institutions. They included the State Secretariat of Public Health
and Social Assistance (SESPAS); the Dominican Social Security Institute (IDSS); city
councils; the State Secretariat of the Armed Forces; and the General Bureau of Forestry.
Prior to the enactment of the General Health Law, medical waste problems were addressed
by a diversity of codes and laws, including the National Public Health Code (1956) and
general health care guidelines contained in Health Law 456-38; Law 1459-38 on Health
Procedures; the 1956 Labor Code; and Law 1896-62 on Social Security and General Hospital
Regulations (Decree 351-99).
- 14 -



