                  DATA SHEET PROJECTRESTRUCTURING
                                  -
     HIV/AIDS PREVENTIONAND CONTROL PROJECT (LOAN 7065-DO)

Date: June 06,2006                              Team Leader: ChristophKurowski
Country: Dominican Republic                     Sector Manager: KeithHansen




affected by the HIV epidemic by reorganizing the National Response, developing a
                                   onding monitoring and evaluation system, and


                                    DOMINICANREPUBLIC
                   HIV/AIDS PREVENTIONAND CONTROL PROJECT
                                         (LOAN 7065-DO)
                                         PROJECTPAPER

                                             Introduction

@![{This Project Paper seeks the approval o fthe Executive Directors to introduce the
Yiiri?
       following changes inthe Dominican Republic, HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control
       Project, (Loan No. 7065, Project ID:P071505) and any accompanying amendments
       to the Project's legal documents. The proposed changes would support the
       government to comprehensively respondto the challenges o f preventing and
       controlling HIV/AIDS. Currently, projects o f development partners, includingthe
       Bank Project, restrict the use o f fbnds to a limited set o f activities. As a result, some
       intervention areas that are critical to effectively respond to the epidemic are under-
       funded, including the coordination o f activities. The proposed changes would expand
       the eligibility o f expenditures to match the full scope o f activities required to
       strengthen, expand and deepen the response to the epidemic. Furthermore, the
       changes would, where appropriate, simplify the implementation procedures o f the
       Project. The revised development objective would include, inaddition to the original
       objective o f reducing the risk o f HIV transmission, improving the quality o f life o f
      those infected and affected and strengthening the coordination and management o f
      the response to the epidemic.


                           BackgroundandReasonsfor Restructuring

2. The Board approved the HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project (the Project) on
      June 28,2001 for $25 millionwith the objective to assist the Borrower inreducing
      the spread o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic through: (a) increasinghealth prevention and
      control programs targeted inparticular to highrisk groups o f the population; (b)
      increasing awareness with respect to HIV/AIDS infection andprevention amongst the
      Borrower's population; and (c) strengthening o f the institutional capacity o f the
      Participating Entities and the Participating Agencies to ensure the effectiveness and
      the sustainabilityo fthe Project.

3. Inits first three years, the Project suffered from substantial implementation delays. As
      o f March 2005, and more than 3 years after Project effectiveness, only about $7
      million, or less than 30% o f the loan amount were disbursed. Implementation and
      disbursement delays resulted primarily from limited administrative and technical
      capacity inthe Consejo Presidencial del SIDA (COPRESIDA). COPRESIDA is the
      government's agency responsible for the coordination o f all efforts inthe country to
      prevent and control HIV/AIDS (National Response) and for the implementation o f
      theBank Project. Implementation and disbursement delays also resulted fiom
      insufficient government allocations o f Project counterpart funds.

4. Inthe past, the coordination o f the NationalResponse lacked a comprehensive and
      programmatic approach and though some pioneering activities were launched, Project

                                                  2

    activities remained patchwork. Inthe absence of a nationalmonitoringand
    evaluation system, evidence of the activities' impact andprogress towards the
    Project's development objective i s lacking.

5, Following the general elections in2004, the new administrationreplaced the
    COPRESIDA team and increased the allocationo f counterpart funds inconsecutive
    years. Under an actionplanwith firm deadlines designedto improve Project
    performance, the COPRESIDA team, which has been gaining experience, managed to
    implement an ambitious 12 monthprocurement planthat scaled up prevention
    activities deliveredby more than 30 public andprivate organizations inmultiple
    sectors resultingindisbursementso f $3.5 millionbetweenApril 2005 and March
    2006.

6, Over the last 12 months, the COPRESIDA team also took important steps to improve
   the coordinationo f the National Response. Most importantly, the team elaborated
    and initiated a process to develop a comprehensive 10 year National Strategic Plan
   with two-year implementationplans. As a first step inthis process, COPRESIDA
   facilitates the formation o f self-governing public-private alliances that serve
   individual target populations such as People Livingwith HIV/AIDS or highrisk
   groups. As a second step, such alliances, with the support o f COPRESIDA, define
   strategic objectives, intervention areas and targets and develop and implement action
   plans andmonitoring and evaluation systems. The 10-year National Strategic Plan
   encompassesthe strategic objectives, interventionareas and targets o f all alliances,
   while the two-year implementationplans lay out the targets and actionplans for each
   two-year period. Eightpublic-private alliances have already beenestablished, three
   o fwhich have defined strategic objectives, intervention areas, targets and action
   plans.

7. Furthermore, COPRESIDA prepared a first two-year actionplan incorporatingthe: (i)
   actionplans o f already-established alliances, (ii)  activities requiredto establish the
   remaining four alliances; (iii) activities that will strengthenthe implementation
   capacity o f alliances and individual organizations; and (iv) ongoingprevention and
   care interventions.

8. Above and beyond the reorganization o f the National Response and the development
   o f the National Strategic Plan, COPRESIDA faces two main challenges. First, it has
   to develop a national monitoringand evaluation system. For reasons o f efficiency,
  this systemcannot simplybethe sumofthe monitoringandevaluation systemsthat
   individual alliances will set up.

9. Second, the requirementsfor using external resources, including the Bank's are
  demanding and uncoordinated. This has constrained the flow o f funds. Since the
  inception o f the Project, external resources, and inparticular grants became
  increasingly available and according to conservative estimates, are sufficient to cover
  the incremental costs ofthe National Strategic Planbetween2006 and 2009. Most
  importantly, as o f June 2004, the Global Fundto Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and
  Malaria (GFATM) started to provide grant funds with an initial commitment o f $14.7
  millionuntil2006 and, dependent on Project performance, an additional $22 million

                                               3

    between 2007 and 2009. Donors, however, impose strict criteria for the use o f funds
    bytype o f interventionand implementing agency. Inaddition, norms andprocedures
    to access funds tend to be cumbersome. As a result, some areas o f the National
    Response are now over-funded while others are under-fbnded. For example, the
    resources available to strengthen organizations and institutions, inparticular, the
     administration and coordination o f the National Response are insufficient.

                                     Proposedchanges

10.The original BankProject supported government action to reduce the spread o f HIV.
    While the eligible activities are critical to the National Response, they only capture a
    subset o f what constitutes an effective National Response to control andprevent
    HIVIAIDS. Furthermore, they overlap with project activities o f other development
    partners. At the same time, other areas o f the National Response remain under-
    funded. Therefore, the proposed changes focus on facilitating the use loanresources
    to bridge current and future financing gaps. Achieving this goal would require two
    sets o f actions. First,it would be necessary to expand the eligibility o f expenditures
    under the original Project design to match the scope o f activities included inthe first
    two-year implementation plano f the National Strategic Plan. Second, simplified
    administrative Project procedures should be introduced, where appropriate. As it has
    been an under-funded priority, strengthening the coordination o f the National -
    Response would become a central component o f the restructured Project's
    Development Objective.

11.The Development Objective o fthe restructuredProject would be to reduce the risk o f
    HIVtransmission andimprove the quality oflife o fthose infectedandaffectedbythe
    HIVepidemic. These objectives wouldbeachievedbyreorganizing the National
    Response, developing a National Strategic Plan and the corresponding monitoring
    and evaluation system, and implementing selected interventions.

12.The restructured Project would include three components. The first component
    would contain activities that strengthen the coordination o f the National Response
    includingthose required to reorganize it and to develop the National Strategic Plan
    anda corresponding national monitoringandevaluation system. Activities include
    consultancies, training, administration and management. The second andthird
    components would consist o f interventions that are effective inreducing the risk o f
    HIV transmission andimprovingthe quality o f life o finfected and affectedpersons.
    The second component would comprise those activities to be implemented by public
    sector organizations, while the third would support activities to be implemented by
    civil society organizations.

13. Activities under components 1,2 and 3 would mirror the range o f activities
    contemplated inthe first two-year action plan o f the National Strategic Plan. This
    alignment would provide the necessary flexibility for the use o f loanresources to fill
    current and future financing gaps. Incomparison with the original Project design,
    activities o f component 2 and 3 would contain, for example, all aspects o f treatment
    and care including treatment with anti-retroviral drugs and, inthe area ofprevention,
   communication interventions to bringabout behavior change.

                                               4

14.Under the restructured Project, the original share o f 83% Bank financing would be
     sustained. However, loan and counterpart funds would be used to fully finance
     distinct and separate Project activities. Bank loan proceeds would hlly finance a
     portion o f all Project activities included inthe procurement planthat equal 83% o f
     total costs; government counterpart funds would fully finance separate activities o f
     the procurement planthat equal 17% o f total costs. The overall 83/17 financing share
     would be monitored by the procurement plan. Preparation and continuous updates o f
     the procurement planwill be mandatory following the adoption o fthe new
     procurement guidelines (see below). Disbursementswould be documented and
     monitored according to Project components.

15. The proposed changes to the financing parameters and their monitoringwould
     simplifythe financial management andexecution o fthe Project. First, the simplified
     disbursement schedule would reduce the probability o f reallocating resources across
     disbursement categories over the life-time o f the Project andthus enhance flexibility
     inthe use ofloanresources. Second, the arrangements to finance Project activities
     either out o f loan or counterpart funds would simplify payment procedures and, thus,
     facilitate the decentralization o f Project activities to implementing agencies.

16. The restructured Project would adopt the Bank's procurement guidelines dated M a y
     2004. This change would yield three main benefits. First, the introduction o f
     additional procurement procedures would provide more flexibility andultimately
     increase the efficiency o f the use o f loan funds. Second, the abolishment o f aggregate
    thresholds for procurement procedures would facilitate the financial management o f
     an increasingly decentralized implementation design. Third, the mandatory use o f a
    procurement planwould support planning and coordination across projects and
    agencies.

17. The restructuring would extend the Loan's closing date by 12months to December
    31, 2007. This extension would provide the government with sufficient time to
    achieve the revised Development Objective, inparticular, the organizational and
    institutional strengthening o f the National Response. The current balance o f
    approximately $15 millionwould be sufficient to finance ongoing Project activities
    and, inaddition, to cover financing gaps o fthe first two-year action plan. The latter
    would propel disbursement levels to $4.3 million inFY 2006 and $8 million in
    consecutive fiscal years.

18. The proposed changes would become effective as o f January 12006 which i s the date
    when a final agreement with the Government was reached on the changes to be
    included in the restructuredproject, to reimburse expenditures incurred for
    procurement o f antiretroviral drugs.

                                             Analysis

19. None o f the proposed changes would require modificationo f the original technical,
    institutional or social aspects o f the original Project. The financial implications are
   discussed above (see 14to 16).



                                                 5

20. It is impossible to determine the exact effect o f the proposedchanges on the
     economic aspects o f the Project, as the intended flexibility to fill current and future
     fbndinggaps does not permit predicting all Project financed activities. However, the
     literature suggests that the activities supportedby the Project are highly cost-effective
     and produce acceptable economic returns, Moreover, the Government, under the
     guidance o f the UNMillennium Project, has produced cost estimates for the National
     Strategic Plan2005/15 and will produce estimates o fbenefits and cost-benefit ratios.

                                      Expectedoutcomes

21. The proposed restructuring includes changes to the Project's Development Objective
     andthe monitoringmatrix o fthe implementation letter. The revised Project
    Development Objective i s to:

    Reduce the risk of HIV transmission and improve the quality of life of those infected
    and affected by the HIV epidemic by reorganizing the National Response,developing
    a National Strategic Plan and a corresponding monitoring and evaluation system,
    and implementing selected interventions.

    Project monitoring indicators andtargets have beenjointly developed by
    COPRESIDA, the task team, the Global AIDS Monitoring and Evaluation Team and
    the UNAIDS office inthe DominicanRepublic. The revised implementation letter is
    presented inannex 1.

                                      Benefitsand risks

22. Achieving the Project's development objective would implymajor progress towards
    the principles proposedby the family o f UNagencies for national-level coordination
    o f the HIV/AIDS response (The Three Ones).

23. IfCOPRESIDA fails to mobilize and unite all stakeholders in support o fthe National
    Strategic Plan and its first two-year implementation plans, the Project is unlikely to
    achieve its development objective. COPRESIDA has already initiated processes that
    will permit broad stakeholder participation inthe reorganization o fthe National
    Response and development o f the National Strategic Participation.

24. The Project would support activities to achieve the same objective and closely
    monitor their implementation.

25. The national monitoring and evaluation system is nascent. Monitoring and evaluation
   is commonly perceived as a control mechanism rather than a management tool. If
    such cultural barriers are not overcome andthe system rapidly strengthened, it will be
    impossible to monitor whether andhow intended outcomes will be achieved over
   time. COPRESIDA committed itselfto develop a comprehensive national monitoring
   and evaluation system by the end o f 2007. The Project would support all efforts
   required to build this system, including technical assistance by the Global AIDS
   Monitoring andEvaluation Team. Other development partners have committed their
   support and collaboration.


                                                6

26. The financial sustainability o f the National Response i s uncertain. There are three
   main risks. First, ifprevention efforts are ineffective to control the transmission o f
   the disease, costs for treatment and care will be escalating. Second, the Government
   may not meet the criteria to enter into the second phase o f the GFATMProject.
    Third, external resources will substantially diminish or cease in2008 and2009. The
   Project would try to mitigate these risks. First, the restructured Project would finance
   the full range o f interventions effective to prevent the spread o fthe disease,
   furthermore, would closely monitor their implementation. Second, the loanwould
   continue, ifnecessary, to provide bridge-funding for GFATMProject activities when
   cash-flow problems hamper the achievement o f quarterly performance targets so that
   the GFATMProject performance permits enteringphase 11. Third, the Bank Project
   would support a meeting that will bringtogether Government and development
   partners early in2007 to discuss the financing o f the National Strategic Plan in
   subsequent years.




                                              7

                                           RevisedImplementationLetter

                                                               Annex 1

                                                  Results                         Indicators                          Targets
                                         National Strategic Plan        National Strategic Planprepared,
                                           fully developed and        including intervention lines for each
                 National Strategic      reflecting a consensus                 target population
                        Plan           across alliances, including                                                 December 2006

Reorganizing                           intervention lines for each

the National                                 target population

  Response,                                                         Design of the national monitoring and
                                                                                                                    October 2006
developing a                                                           evaluation system fully developed,

   National                                                        reflecting a consensus across all alliances

Strategic Plan                         Monitoring and evaluation   Monitoring and evaluation system under

     and a        Monitoring and          system o f the national    implementation, information on some            March 2007

corresponding        evaluation        response fully functioning            indicators is available

monitoring and                                                      Monitoring and evaluation systemfully
  evaluation                                                        functioning, a first annual report about       December 2007
    system                                                           the status ofthe National Responseis
                                                                               widely distributed

                     Absorption          Increased absorption of     Amount of investments in HIVIAIDS           Targets to be defined

                     capacity of          resources available to      prevention and control by financing       dependent on baseline

                      resources            finance the National         source and implementing agency         to be available in Dec.
                                                  Response                                                              2006
                                                                                                                 2005: 33% (2.800)
                 Care and treatment    Improved coverage o f anti- % ofpersons that needed ARV treatment
                                           retroviral treatment       and received it in the last 12 months      2006: 70%   isloooj
                                                                                                                  2007: 85% (7500)
                                                                    % of young population (15 to 24 years       Targets to be defined
                  Social marketing        Increase in the use o f  old) that report the use of condom in the    dependent onbaseline
                    o f condoms          condoms among young
                                                   people            last sexual relation with anon regular    to be available in Dec.
                                                                          partner in the last 12 months                 2006

                     Voluntary          Improve the population's   populationaged 15 to 49 who voluntarily          2005: 82,915
                  Counseling and          knowledge about its       requested an HIV test, received the test        2006: 170,000
                       Testing               serological status     and received their results within the last
                                                                                    12 months                       2007: 250,000

                                                                                                                      2005: 60%
Reducing the        Prevention of      Decrease the transmission      % of health facilities providingbirth

    risk of       Mother-to-Child         from mother to child        attendancethat provide prophylactic            2006: 75%

transmission        Transmission                                    treatment according to national norms             2007: 80%

and improving       Treatment o f                                       % ofpatients with STIs who are                2005: 70%
the quality of         sexually        Improve the diagnosis and      appropriately diagnosed and treated             2006: 80%
 life of those       transmitted             treatment of STIs       according to national guidelines o f all         2007: 90%
infected and      infections other                                                 STIpatients

   affected           than HIV
                                                                        % of people expressing accepting
                                            Improve accepting      attitudes towards people with HIV,o f all     Targets to be defined

                                         attitudes towards those       people surveyed, broken down by          dependent on baseline

                                              living with HIV         different environments (workplace,        to be available inDec.

                                                                                  schools, etc)                          2006

                   Discrimination          Reduce stigma and            YOof healthpersonnel expressing          Targets to be defined

                     and stigma          discrimination at health   accepting attitudes towards people with     dependent on baseline

                                                  facilities         HIV,of allhealthpersonnel surveyed         to be available in Dec.
                                                                                                                         2006

                                           Reduce stigmaand           % o f PLWHA that report felt stigma        Targets to be defined

                                          discrimination inthe                                                  dependent on baseline

                                                community                                                       to be available inDec.
                                                                                                                         2006




   wb175385
   P:\GENERAL\LCSHDKUROWSKnDOMINICANREPUBLIC\COPRESIDA\Restructuring\BoardProjectPaper HIVAIDS\7065-
   DO Project Paper Board Version - June OS  FINAL.doc
   06/06/2006 11:06:00 AM


                                                                  8

