Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
D^/ 3 D 7L/_ J
Report No. 7548-PIJ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIJI
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (P&T)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
APRIL 14, 1989
Asia Technical Department
Asia Country Department V
Thi document has a reticed distibudon and may be used by redplents ony in the pedonnrmne of
their officida dutles. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed wkbout Wodd Bank auth_zato



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of September 1988)
Currency unit - Fiji dollar (F$)
US$1.00 - F$1.43
F$1.00 - US$0.70
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS      -  Commodities Assistance Support
DEL      -  Direct Exchange (telephone) Line
EIB      -  European Investment Bank
FINTEL   -  Fiji International Telecommunications Limited
GDP      -  Gross Domestic Product
HF       -  High Frequency
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
IDD      -  International Direct Dialing
INTELSAT -  International Satellite Corporation
ITU      -  International Telecommunication Union
LCB      -  Local Competitive Bidding
LIB      -  Limited Iuternational Bidding
MIS      -  Management Information System
O&M      -  Operations and Maintenance
P&T      -  Posts and Telecommunications Department
PABX     -  Private Automatic Branch Exchange
PCO      -  Public Call Office
PPF      -  Project Preparation Facility
STD      -  Subscriber Trunk Dialing
TTC      -  Telecommunications Training Center
VHF      -  Very High Frequency



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
FIJI
THIRD TELECOMKUNICATIONS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY........................                         iii
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II.  THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR ..... ..........................      1
A. Background.                                                      1
Sector Organization .1
Access to and Usage of Service.                               2
Existing Facilities and Quality of Service.                   3
Demand for Service ...................                        4
B. The Entity.                                                      4
Organization and Management.                                  4
Staffing.                                                     5
Training.                                                     5
Accounting Systems and Financial Management.                  6
Billing and Collection.                                       6
Audit.                                                        7
Management Information Systems.                               7
C. Sector Developmet.                                               7
Sector Goals and Objectives.                                  7
Sector Constraints.                                           8
Bank Group's Role and Strategy.                               9
III. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT.                                         9
Telecommunications Investment Program ........................      9
Project Origin and Formulation .10
Project Objectives .10
Project Description .11
Project Costs .13
Project Financing and Tems..                                       15
Procurement .16
Disbursements .18
Implementation ............                            .......    19
Performance Indicators .20
This report is based on the findings of Bank missions to Fiji in July and
October 1988, comprising Ms. C. Ramsay (Task Manager), and Messrs. E. Vidal,
B. Hanson (consultant) and F. La Cour (consultant).  Mr. Mark Tomlinsou
participated in Project Preparation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorzatdon.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ...........................................        20
Past Financial Performance .........................                  20
Projected Financial Performance ..............................        23
Financial Forecast ................                                   24
V.  ECONOMIC AMALYSIS .................................... .......        25
Benefits .....................................................        25
Tariffs ......................................................        25
Return on Investments ........................................        26
Project Risk .................................................        26
Least-Cost Solution ............ .............................        26
Environmental and Health Aspects .............................        27
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......................        27
I.1ST OF ANNEXES
1. Basic Sector Statistics
2. Existing Telecommunications Facilities
3. Telephone Demand and Supply
4. Organization Chart
5.  Staff Composition
6. Investment Program and Project Cost
7. Details of Physical Components
8. Terms of Reference for Restructuring
9.  Terms of Reference for Management Development and Institutional
Support
10. Disburs3ment Schedule
11.  Schedule of Construction
12.  Performance Indicators
13.  Historical Financial Statements (1983-87)
14. Frojected Financial Statements (1988-94)
15. Assumptions for Financial Projections
16.  Summary of Telecommunications Tariffs
17. Return on Investment
18.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
Map: IBRD No. 21266



- iii -
FIJI
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:          Fiji
Beneficiary:       Posts and Telecommunications Department (P&T).
Amount:            US$8.1 million equivalent.
Terms:             Seventeen years including a five-year grace period at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:  Proceeds of the Bank loan will be on-lent to P&T and
subsequently to the new company on commercial terms. The
F&T and the company will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Proiect
DescriRtion:     The proiect, the third Bank telecommunications operation in
Fiji, will help restructure P&T from a Government Depart-
ment into a government-owned company, support its institu-
tional development- and finance the telecommunications
expansion for 1990-94. The proposed project -would:
(a) provide technical assistance to the restructured P&T to
help build the managerial and technical capabilities essen-
tial for efficient management and operations of a commer-
cial entity (financing would be provided for a managerial
training program and a "twinning arrangement" between P&T
and a more developed telecommunications entity that would
provide line staff and staff training); and (b) help
finance P&T's 1990-94 development program which includes
required investments to establish computerized information
systems anid to expand the telecommunications network (Bank
financing would be provided for procurement of cables).
Project Benefits
and Risks:       Benefits.  The institutional reform supported by the
project will result in more efficient use of resources in
the telecommunications sector and increased transfers to
Government. Economic benefits are expected to accrue
throughout the economy, in particular to emerging
businesses in nontraditional sectors and the tourist
industry, through greater access to modern telecommunica-
tions services. Expansion of services to villages in rural
areas and outer islands will improve productivity of these
communities through greater access to market information
and better coordination of tra.nsportation.



- iv                                                   l
Risks. Possible project risks are (a) major delays in
implementing restructuring, (b) disruption of P&T's opera-
tions during the transition period, and (c) delays in
identifying a qualified managerial team. To minimize the
first risk, a high-level steering committee has been
established with working-level support to oversee the
restructuring process. The demonstrated strong commitment
of both Government and P&T to rapid change further
minimizes the risk. With respect to the second risk, major
emphasis will be placed on personnel issues including
management training and development, and interim personnel
policies to allow smooth and effective transfer of staff.
To mitigate the third risk, a project coordinator will help
fill the managerial gap and provide support to the
management team in the event of delays in identifying
suitable candidates to fill key positions in the new
organization.
Estimated Cost: /a
Local      Foreign     Total
Item                                    - (US$ million equivalent) -
Rural Radio and Carrier                   1.5          3.5        5.0
.able Plant                               6.4          6.0       12.4
PABXs, Teleprinters,
Pay phones                              0.8          3.7        4.5
Transmission Equipment                    1.7          3.4        $.l
Junction Cables                           0.1          0.4        0.5
Exchanges and Power
Equipment                               0.9          6.2        7.1
Computerization                           0.2          0.4        0.6
Buildings and Land                        1.8          0.0        1.8
Miscellaneous                             1.6          0.9        2.5
Consultancy                               0.0          0.9        0.9
Total Base Cost /a                       15.0         2.4        40.4
Physical Contingencies                    1.1          1.3        2.4
Price Contingencies                       1.8          3.3        5.1
Total Project Cost                       IL.                    AL.I 47.
/a   Local costs include F$ 1.4 million (US$1.0 million) in local taxes and
custom duties applicable to noncommunication equipment and subscriber
terminal equipment.
Sb Vehicles, mechanical aids, tools, workshop equipment, furniture, etc.



-v -
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign       otal
- (US$ million equivalent) -
IBRD                                                  8.1         8.1
Australia                                 -           7.4         7.4
EIB /a                                    1.5         4.9         6.4
P&T                                      16.4         9.6        26.0
Total                                 17.932                  47.9
/a   Excludes financing provided for 1989 investments.
Estimated
Disbursements:
IBRD FY      1990    1991    12    1993    1224   1995    1226
Annual       1.3     1.6      1.5    1.5       '   0.7       0.2
Cumulative   1.3     2.9     4.4    5.9      7.2    7.9      8.1
Economic Rate
of Return: 22%
M4aR: IBRD No. 21266



FMJ
THIRD TELECONMUNICATIONS PROJECT
I. INTROPUCTION
1.1      Telecommunications services in Fiji are inadequate to meet demand
from business, residential and rural sectors. Service quality also needs
imtprovement. The Posts azd Telecommunications Department's status as a
government department constra'<s its commercial efficiency because (a) civil
service personnel procedures restrict its ability to hire and retain skilled
staff; (b) government procurement procedures limit its flexibility to respond
to changing customer requirements; and (c) annual budgetary approval
procedures preclude long-term planning. As well, P&T staff lacks commercial
awareness and a service orientation.
1.2      After detailed review of options for increasing sector efficiency,
the Government has decided to separate regulatory and operational functions
and to restructure P&T as a fully state-owned company established under the
Companies Act, in the process providing the option for future private-sector
participation. Given the Government's decision, the proposed project will
focus on: (a) establishinig a policy and regulatory framework that will
provide incentives to entities in the sector to operate efficiently and in
line with government objectives; (b) phasing the introduction of financial
policies applicable to the new entity (tariffs, taxation, dividends) to ensure
its financial viability; (c) taking prompt action to ease managerial and
technical constraints within P&T during and after the restructuring period;
(d) ensuring a smooth transition from a government department to a state-owned
company; and (e) ensuring adequate levels of investments in the network over
the next five years to improve both the quality of service anid the access to
service.
II. THE TELECOM MNICATIONS SECTOR
A. Background
Sector Organization
2.1      In accordance with provisions of the Fiji Telecommunications and
Postal Act, authority and control of telecommunications and postal operations
in Fiji is vested in the Ministry of Communications, Transportation and Works.
Telecommunications services are provided by two entities: the Ministry's Post
and Telecommunications Department (P&T) provides all domestic public
telecommunications services and Fiji International Telecommunications Limited
(FINTEL), a private company jointly owned by the state (51%) and Cable and
Wireless of the UK (49%), provides international services under government
license. There are a few dedicated networks mainly those of the electricity
authority and the army. A private company provides radio service. There is
no telecommunications manufacturing industry.



2.2      The existing Telecommunications and Postal Act gives the Government,
through P&T, the exclusive privilege to operate public domestic telecommunica-
tions and postal services. P&T also has certain regulatory functions, includ-
ing responsib'lity for allocation an". control of the radio frequency spectrum.
The rights and responsibilities of FINTEL are specified in the terms and con-
dition of its license. FINTEL's original 25-year license expired in March
1988. The original license was renewed unchanged during 1987; however,
amendments are under review.
2.3      As a government department, P&T is subject to oversight and control
by several Government agencies, which has adversely affected its performance
(para. 2.24) Tbz Ministry of Finance approves P&T's investment program and
establishes its annual contribution to Government. P&T staff are civil ser-
vants; thus the Public Service Commission approves organizational and
staffing plans and all personnel decisions. P&T is also required to utilize
the government purchasing agents for procurement. The Government exercise3
control over FINTEL through membership of its board. Changes in international
telecommunications tariffs require government approval.
2.4      To improve sector performance and efficiency the Government has
decided to restructure the telecommunications sector. P&T will be established
as a 100% government-owned company established under the Companies Act. The
Mii.istry will be responsible for all regulatory functions. New
telecommunications and postal policies will be established and the
Telecommunications and Postal Act, which will govern the operations of the
sector, is being revised accordingly (para. 3.6).
Access to and Usage of Service
2.5      Although, relative to its population, the size of the telecommunica-
tions network in Fiji is about average for Pacific countries and well above
average for developing countries, service is largely concentrated in urban
areas. With about 34,000 direct exchange lines (DELs) in service at end-1987,
the telephone density for Fiji as a whole was 4.7 lines per 100 population but
only 0.7 lines per 100 population outside urban centers. Basic statistics of
the sector are given in Annex 1.
Table 2.1: ACCESS TO TELEPHONE SERVICE
(at end 1987)
Population       Connected        DELs per
Area                             (%)            lines (%)     100 population
Suva capital district            19.7               51              12.2
Other urban centers              17.0               40               11.1
Rest of country                  63.3                9                0.7
Whole country                   100.0            100.0                4.7



-3-
At end-1987, there were only 3,000 exchange lines in rural areas serving a
population of 450,000. Rural areas were served primarily by small manual
exchanges and radio telephone public call offices (PCOs) with limited
operating hours. Expansion of coverage in rural areas and improvement of the
standard of rural service through techrological improvements is an important
project component (para. 3.5).
2.6      While tnlex service is adequate, Fiji has been slow to enhance other
telecommunications services with new service options. International direct
dialing (IDD) service was introduced only in November 1987. Problems with the
billing system (para. 2.18) and political events in 1987 contributed to the
delays. At end-1987 only 4% of total subscribers had IDD. This is expected
to reach 30% by end 1993 in line with the program for installation of digital
exchanges. Existing telex capacity exceeds demand and no further increase in
capacity will be required. In the future, growth in tele:- subscribers and
traffic is expected to decline as telex service is replacec Sy facsimile and
data transmission.
2.7      An analysis of billing data shows that about 16% of subscribers pro-
vide 65% of revenues. Current statistics do not distinguish between residen-
tial and business subscribers nor identify traffic generation by type of user.
However, an estimated 70% of telecommunications revenues derive from
government, parastatal and business subscribers.
Existing Facilities and Ouality of Service
2.8      P&T has been slow in introducing new technology.  Although existing
telecommunicatior.s facilities are adequate to provide basic telephone service,
because of outdated technology these facilities in general cannot provide IDD
and other modern enhanced services for which there is growing demand. New
technology, such as digital exchanges and transmission equipment that allow
provision of such services, has only recently been introduced and cable design
needs to be improved. Data on existing facilities are given in Annex 2. At
the end of 1987, Fiji had -, telephone exchanges of which 3 were digital. The
rest were electromechanicpa crossbar (17) and manual exchanges (17), which
serve mainly small rural communities. Subscriber Trunk Dialing (STD) is
available to 95% of subscribers. Sixty percent sf installed exchange capacity
is in the southern district (including Suva), 30% in the Western district
(Nadi) and 10% in the Northern district. The subscriber cable distribution
design needs improvement, in particular through reduction in the size of
cabinet areas and matching network design to lower network cost and 'ncrease
cable fill. The long distance transmission network is composed of analog
microwave facilities that link the main exchanges in the two main islands and
some minor islands. Very high frequency (VHF) and some high frequency (HF)
links serve the small rural communities in remote islands. Although
transmission quality of VHF and HF links is poor, they provide an essential
low-cost service to rural communities.
2.9      FINTEL provides international service through its international
gateway exchange in Suva.  International tra fiC to Australia and Hawaii is
routed through a submarine cable and to the rest of the World through



International Satellite Corporation's (INTELSAT) satellite. Most of the
international traffic is operator-handled, as only a few subscribers have IDD.
2.10     Although quality of service is about average for developing coun-
tries, further improvement is required. International incoming call
completion rates are close to 35%, which is low compared to the average of 70%
in well-engineered and maintained networks in developed countries. Although
the time required to clear a fault is long in rural areas, especially small
islands wher acces.s is more difficult, fault clearing takes 48 hours on
average for line faults in urban areas. Repeated faults are a problem, due to
lack of supervision of outside plant maintenance teams and use of improper
materials. P&T performance with respect to quality of service has been
affected by poor outside plant design and maintenance. P&T's management is
aware of the problem and plans to improve service by expanding its training
program for outside plant technicians and improving design and maintenance
procedures.
Demand for Service
2.11     During 1983-87, growth in demand for basic telecommunications
services exceeded the growth in supply. The waiting list for basic telephone
connections increased at an average of 6% p.a. compared to the average growth
in the number of DELs of 5% p.a. By end-1987, unmet expressed demand as
measured by the list of outstanding applications represented 32% of existing
subscribers. Growth in demand for new services is expected to increase
further, fueled by expansion of export-oriented industries and the tourism
sector. Over the next five years (1989-1994), on the basis of relatively
conservative forecasts of GDP growth, total demand (existing subscribers and
outstanding applications) for new telephone connections is projected to grow
at an average 5.3% p.a. (Annex 3). Over the same period, the number of DELs
is expected to grow at 8% p.a. On this basis, it is expected that, at the end
of the project period, unmet demand will have been reduced to 13% of existing
subscribers.
B. The Entity
Organization and Management
2.12     P&T's development has been constrained by internal and external
factors. Internal factors include staff that are not commercially oriented,
and government procedures with respect to budgeting, staffing and procurement.
External factors include a changing telecommunications environment, where
business users demand better and more efficient services, the pressure to meet
demand, and technology changes that have made most of P&T's network obsolete
and unable to provide enhanced servicer.
2.13     Management attention has been concentrated on day-to-day operations,
and on fulfilling government administrative requirements with respect to
procurement, personnel, and internal procedures. It has not been able to
respond adequately to external changes and to evolve to a service-oriented
business from the relatively stable and simple provision of basic telephone
services. The organization lacks corporate planning, marketing or customer
relations staff. Overall, P&T's organization and its management have been
relatively isolated from its customers and focussed on internal concerns. One



example of this is that P&T has responded to inadequate tariff adjustments by
cost-cutting but not by revenue enhancement.
Staffing
2.14     A summary of P&T's staff composition is given in Annex 5.  With 1,220
effective J/ telecommunications staff at end-1987, P&T's staffing ..atio of 35
staff per 1,000 lines is about average for developing countries. However,
there are serious staffing imbalances. F&T lacks experienced technical and
middle level managerial staff as a result of high levels of staff turnover.
As senior staff left, less experienced personnel assumed the responsibility of
more senior technical and managerial levels and many working level positions
remain unfilled. Thus, of a total of 612 senior technician and engineering
positions, 103 (17%) were vacant at end-1987 and only two trained accountants
remained in the Finance and Accounting department. In 1987, P&T lost 200
employees or about 13% of total. High staff turnover has been due in part to
political events in Fiji as well as P&T's inability to compensate staff
adequately; staff have left for the private sector ir: Fiji and also migrated
overseas. Although a large pool of candidates for entry level positions is
available, there has been little recruitment because of the government hiring
freeze. P&T obtained permission to recruit entry level technicians and
accounting staff only in mid-1988 after a two-year suspension. Rebuilding
P&T's institutional capability will require both short-term and long-term
measures. Restructuring P&T (para. 3.6) as a comm'rcial company will improve
its ability to compensate staff adequately and help reduce future staff
turnover. The proposed project will help train P&T staff and provide experts
temporarily to fill line positions.
Txaining
2.15     The volume of staff training in P&T at 1.2 training weeks per staff
member per annum has been relatively low compared to 5.0 training weeks per
staff for similar countries. Past training effort has been concentrated on
entry-level technician training, with little emphasis on managerial and
supervisory training. Efforts have recently been made to increase managerial
and supervi;orv training. Training in these areas will be further expaneed
during the project period (para. 3.6 (c)). The Telecommunications Training
Center (CTC), which also provides training for staff of telephone companies in
other Pacific Island countries, runs a two-year program for entry-level
technicians (three years for technical officers) and shorter refresher and
update training courses for existing technical staff. The TTC provides, on
average, 70% of P&T's total training. Other sources of technical training
include the government training center, which provide administrative training,
the Fiji Institute of Technology, the University of the South Pacific, which
provides some management training, and various overseas institutions.
Technician training has been adequate, although biased towards switching and
transmission areas; more recently, outside plant maintenance training programs
have been expanded to help overcome P&T deficiencies in this area.
1J/ Includes allocation of a portion of overhead staff providing service to
both the Post and Telecommunications units.



Ace.ounting Systems and Financial Management
2.16     Under the P&T Trust Account Act of 1973, P&T has the autonomy to
manage its financial affairs, services all debt incurred by Government on its
behalf, and pays other government departments for services provided. Since
January 1, 1974, as agreed under a previous Bank loan, P&T has prepared separ-
ate commercial accounts for its postal and telecommunications branches using
appropriate cost allocation procedures. Postal and telecommunications assets
are revalued every five years on the basis of an acceptable methodology.
2.17     P&T has sound manual accounting systems and procedures in place but
since only subscriber billing and payroll are computerized there are excessive
delays in producing financial reports. Time recording by operational staff
allows identification of capital versus operational costs. Inventories are
directly controlled by the Accounting Department, which also has responsibi-
lity for procurement, storage and issue of stock. Physical verification of
inventories is carried out annually. Postal accounts are handled by a sepa-
rate unit within the Finance Department. A Budget and Cost Control Unit pre-
pares and coordinates operating and capital budgets, and is responsible for
budgetary control and costing of services. Additional reports such as monthly
income statements, cash flow forecasts and projections of long-term financial
position are also prepared. Because reports are prepared manually, two to
three months are required to produce periodic financial and accounting data,
limiting their usefulness. It is also difficult and time consuming to obtain
information not prepared on a routine basis. In recent years preparation of
reports has been further delayed by shortage of skilled staff (para. 2.14).
Computerization of accounting systems and recruitment and training of
accounting staff are now high priorities (para. 2.21).
Billing and Collection
2.l8     To date, P&T's billing performance has been poor.  Bills are issued
on average 30 days after the cut-off date. Subscribers are billed monthly
through a centralized billing system that utilizes the Government's computer
facilities. However, time-consuming manual procedures for batching and
verification of transactions prior to date. entry contribute to delays in
issuing bills. Despite extensive modifications, the current billing program,
in use for more than ten years, no longer meets P&T's requirements and is a
major constraint; introducLion of IDD was delayed for almost one year due to
difficulties experienced in modifying the billing program. To improve billing
performance, a new billing system is required that will permit on-line access
and updating of subscriber data. A new billing system will be implemented
during the project period.
2.19     P&T has taken measures to improve collection performance with some
success. Accounts receivable declined from the equivalent of 127 days revenue
in 1982 to 97 days revenue in 1987; overdue payments declined from 70 to 49
days over the same period.Z/ Prompt disconnections for nonpayment and alloca-
tion or increased staff resources to follow up overdue accounts helped improve
2/ The large difference between outstanding and overdue payments is due to
delays in issuing bills to customers following provision of service.



collection performance. More recently, staff shortages and the ban on over-
time due to government budgetary constraints have affected P&T's efforts in
this area. Further reductions in accounts receivable will require
implementation of a new billing system and allocation of additional staff to
follow up overdue accounts.
Audit
2.20     P&T's accounts are audited by the Auditor General in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.  The auditor's opinion has been unquali-
fied. Unaudited and audited financial statements are available within six
months and ten months respectively of the close of the fiscal year ending
December 31. During negotiations, agreement was reached that for FY89,
unaudited and audited financial statements will be submitted to the Bank with-
in six months and ten months, respectively, of the end of the fiscal year.
For 1990 and subsequent years, following the restructuring of P&T and
computerization of its accounting systems, agreement was reached that
unaudited financial statements and financial statements audited by an audit
firm satisfactory to the Bank, will be submitted within four months and six
months respectively of the close of the fiscal year (para. 6.1 (a').
Management Information Systems
2.21     There is now an urgent need to introduce computerized management
information systems. Currently all financial, administrative and technical
information in P&T, with the exception of billing and payroll and some tech-
nical data prepared on PCs, is compiled manually (para. 2.18). During project
preparation, P&T assessed its technical systems requirements with consultant
assistance- The restructuring consultants will further elaborate on the
administrative, financial and management systems required by the new company
and propose an implementation plan (para. 3.6). During the project period,
P&T, with the assistance of the Government's data processing department, will
upgrade existing software, specifically the billing program, and will
establish required computerized information systems in the areas identified.
Hardware costs will be met primarily by the same department, which will
upgrade its computing facilities to meet P&T's requirements. P&T will fija.-nce
the costs of software, services and terminal equipment.
C. Sector Develooment
Sector Goals and Objectives
2.22     The Government's current strategy for economic development emphasizes
the need to (a) diversify manufactured and agricultural exports; (b) expand
the opportunities for and the capacity of the private sector to participate
more fully in economic development; (c) improve the economic performance of
rural areas; and (d) increase the efficiency of the public sector.
2.23     Consistent with the Government's country strategy, the primary
objective of the telecommunications sector are:



-8-
(a) to increase access to modern and efficient telecommunications ser-
vices in urban and rural areas and thus contribute to growth and
efficiency of the private sector and to achievement of Government's
social and economic objectives; and
(b) to increase the commercial efficiency of entities in the telecommuni-
cations sector and, in the process, increase net transfer from the
sector to the Government.
Sector Constraints
2.24     As indicated in paras. 2.1-2.21, achievement of sector objectives is
being hampered by the current policy and regulatory framework, the
institutional structure of the primary service provider (P&T) and P&T's
organizational and management weaknesses which have been exacerbated by high
staff turnover.
Policy and Regulatory Problems
(a) While Fiji's Ninth Development Plan for 1986-90 outlines general
sector objectives, Governmenr has not established specific targets or
performance standards with respect to access to service, particularly
in rural areas, quality of service, and provision of enhanced
telecommunications services.
(b) P&T's dual role as operator and regulator leads to cokflict of
interest. Conflict will worsen as technological changes increase the
scope for private supply of telecommunications services.
(c) Although -he financial difficulties of P&T in the 12-year period
(1966-78) when tariffs were frozen made the Government aware of the
importance of timely tariff adjustments, there remained no clear
policy on tariffs. P&T's requests for tariff increases have been
modest, as it has been hesitant to request large tariff increases or
corrections to the tariff structure because of perceived political
resiscance.
Institutional Structure
(d) P&T's status as a government department constrains its commercial
orientation because: (i) civil service personnel procedures restrict
its ability to hire, and provide adequate incentive to, skilled tech-
nical and financial staff. Planning, engineering, accounting and
financial management have all been affected adversely by the lack of
skilled staff and high staff turnover (para. 2.14) which has been
exacerbated by salary reductions in 1987 and political events in
Fiji; (ii) government procurement procedures restrict P&T's flexibil-
ity and ability to respond quickly to changing customer requirements;
(iii) Government's annual budgetary approval procedures preclude
long-term planning and adversely affect financial planning and
procurement efficiency.



Organizational and Management Weaknesses
(e)  The high turnover of middle-level managers and skilled financial and
technical staff has weakened P&T. The company also lacks personnel,
marketing and corporate planning staff. In addition, some technical
areas, such as outside-plant engineering and operations and
maintenance, are severely under staffed and need to be strengthened.
P&T staff also need to be more commercially oriented and customer
focussed.
Previous Bank ExUerience
2.25     The Bank has had two previous tel communications sector operations in
Fiji, Loan No. 833-FIJ in 1972 and Loan No. 1140-FIJ in 1975. The first
project was substantially completed in 1976 and the second in 1981. Project
Performance Audit Reports and Project Completion Reports for these operations
consider them successfully to have met their objectives of helping to:
(i) expand basic service in urban areas and provide service to remote outer
islands; (ii) streutgthen P&T's project implementation capacity and improve
training of technical staff; and (iii) increase P&T's financial autonomy by
separating its accounts from the Government's and establishing a commercial
accounting system. During project implementation the Bank also helped P&T to
obtain much-needed tariff increases.
Bank Group's Role and Strategy
2.26     The geographical dispersion of population over a number of islands
and the proportion of the population in rural areas make the availability of
efficient telecommunications services a high priority. Access to modern and
efficient telecommunications services is an i portant contributor to the
growth of private enterprises and to achieving social and economic objectives.
The Bank's strategy with respect to the telecommunications sector in Fiji is
to ensure efficient operations and balanced and cost-effective development of
the telecommunications infrastructure by supporting efforts to (i) develop and
modernize the network; and (ii) improve the operating environment and perform-
ance of companies in the sector through policy, regulatory and institutional
reform. The proposed project is in response to the Government's request for
Bank assistance to explore sectcr options, implement required changes, and
support modernization and expansion of telecommunications facilities. This
would continue the previous efforts towards autonomy and development of the
sector.
III. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
Telecommunications Investment Program
3.1      P&T's investment program for 1990-94 for F$90.6 million (US$63.4 mil-
lion equivalent) consists of ongoing works (F$13.2 million), physical
investments under the proposed project (F$68.5 million), and future works
(F$8.9 million). Ongoing works consist primarily of the modernization and
expansion of exchanges and the outside plant cable network in two areas,



- 10 -
Labasa and Lautoka, and are being financed by Australia and P&T. The physical
investments under the proposed project are for expansion by 15,000 lines,
which will be substantially implemented in 1990-93 with minor works and
connection of subscribers extending through to 1994, as detailed in Annex 6.
Future works consist of initial investments for future replacement and
expansion of microwave systems and electromechanical exchanges, which would
have exhausted their useful life. Further details are given in Annex 6.
Project Origin and Formulation
3.2      During a multisector mission to Fiji in July 1986, the Government of
Fiji requested Bank assistance in the telecommunications sector. A Bank
review mission in November 1986 identified the need for (a) improvements in
the policy and regulatory framework, (b) changes in institutional arrange-
ments, (c) an institutional development program, and (d) additional prepara-
tory work to ensure tLe soundness of P&T's investment program. At Govern-
ment's request, the Bank prepared an options paper outlining the relative
merits of different alternatives for restructuring the telecommunications
sector. This paper was presented to an interministerial committee established
by the Government to review the status of P&T during a Bank mission in March
1987.
3.3      After careful evaluation of options, the committee recommended sepa-
rating the regulatory and operational functions, and restructuring P&T as a
fully government-owned commercial company under the Companies Act. The
Government's decision was delayed by political events in Fiji. The
committee's decision was finally endorsed by the Cabinet in January 1988.
Concurrently, P&T reviewed its investment program and institutional
requirements with the Bank and agreed to carry out a demand study, a network
optimization plan, a tariff review and a review of its information system
needs. After some delays, consultants completed the required studies in late
1987, and the Bank and P&T reviewed the results in February 1988. In May
1988, the Government requested financing for a policy and restructuring
consultancy through the Bank's project preparation facilicy (PPF). The Bank
approved the PPF of US$450,000 in June 1988 and policy consultants were
appointed in July 1988. Restructuring consultants financed through the PPF
began work in January 1989.
Proiect Objectives
3.4      In line with sector goals and objectives, the proposed project aims
to improve the availability of and access to modern telecommunications ser-
vices in Fiji by:
(a) assisting the Government of Fiji to establish an appropriate policy
and regulatory framework in order to improve the operating
environment of sector entities. The revised government policies and
regulations will provide clearer objectives and operating guidelines
for companies in the sector, facilitate performance monitoring by
Government, and increase the scope for private sector participation;
(b) helping to restructure along commercial lines to enhance customer
focus and increase revenue generation and operational efficiency;



- 11 -
(c)  strengthening P&T through a program of institutional development; and
(d)  helping to finance the expansion and modernization of telecommunica-
tions facilities to increase the range of services available to busi-
ness subscribers and to improve the quality of service, and thus help
stimulate growth and investment.
Proiect Description
3.5      The project has been designed to support the above objectives.  It
includes a substantial component of technical assistance to both the Govern-
ment of Fiji and P&T, in addition to the support for P&T9s 1990-94 investment
program for development of telecommunications facilities. Specific components
of the project are indicated below. Full details of the physical components
of the project are given in Annex 7.
(a) Part I. Technical assistance to the Government of Fiji and P&T for
drafting:
Mi)  a Statement of Policy for the Telecommunications and Postal
sectors;
(ii)  legislation as a basis for sector regulation;
(iii) an operating license for the restructured P&T; and
(iv)  an implementation plan for transition of P&T from a government
department to a commercial company.
(b)  Part II.  Technical assistance to P&T through (i) a managerial
development program and (ii) a "twinning" arrangement with a deve-
loped tele_ommunications entity to enhance its managerial and tech-
nical capabilities.
(c)  Part III.  Support to P&T's 1990-94 Investment Program which
comprises:
(i)  provision of switching equipment and associated cable distribu-
tion network and subscriber terminal equipment to connect abcut
15,000 new lines;
(ii)  provision of transmission facilities for long-distance services
to existing and new subscribers and to extend service to rural
areas with 240 Public Call Offices;
(iii) provision of computer software, including terminals, to
establish computerized technical, financial, administrative and
management information systems;
(iv)  provision of miscellaneous equipment such as tools, test equip-
ment and vehicles; and



- 12 -
(v) civil works for construction of buildings and cable ducts.
Technical Assistance
3.6      Bank-financed consultancy assistance provided under a PPF of
US$450,000 approved in June 1988 and further technical assistance to be
provided under the project will assist the Government and the P&T as detailed
below:
(a) Policy and Reaulatorv Reform. Senior policy and legal consultants,
financed under the PPF, have helped the Government prepare a telecom-
munications and postal policy paper, redraft the Telecommunications
and Postal Act, prepare the operating license for the new company,
and identify the duties and the staff composition of the regulatory
unit in the Ministry. The policy paper (i) outlines a strategy for
rural development, including procedures for establishing targets and
sources of financing; (ii) sets ghidelines for adjusting tariffs;
(iii) specifies the limits of P&T's monopoly of telecommunications
and postal services and conditions for licensing of providers of
enhanced telecommunications services, suppliers of telecommunications
equipment and private networks interconnected to the public switch
network; and (iv) details the regulatory and policy-making functions
and responsibilities of the Ministry of Telecommunications. The
policy paper was approved in principle by the Cabinet in February
1989. During negotiations, agreement was reached that by
November 30, 1989, the Government will take all necessary steps to
facilitate restructuring of the telecommunications sector
(para. 6.1 (b)).                     I
(b)  Restructuring of M. Twenty-eight man-months of technical assis-
tance have been provided under the PPF to help plan and implement the
restructuring of P&T. The consultants' terms of reference (Annex 8)
calls for preparation of detailed recommendations on organizational
and financial structures, planning procedures, information systems,
personnel policies and a manpower plan. The consultants will also
prepare an implementation plan for making the transition to the new
company and provide support and advice during the transition. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government shall cause
the new company (the restructured P&T) to be established in
accordance with an implementatio)n plan satisfactory to the Bank, and
will enter into an on-lending and operating agreement with the
company satisfactory to the Bank that will include on-lending terms
for loan funds from the Government to the new company on commercial
terms and project-specific conditionality (including financial and
performance targets) originally applicable to P&T (para. 6.1 (c)).'
Submission to the Bank of the detailed implementation plan is a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 6.2). The new company is
expected to be operational by late 1989.
(c) Institutional Development. The managerial development program will
provide a total of 80 man-months of training for about 40 middle-
level and senior managers during 1989 and 1990. The courses will be
developed and conducted by an external training consultant in con-



- 13 -
junction with TTC. In accordance with the schedule agreed during
project preparation, the first phase of the program will be carried
out in 1989 and the second phase in 1990. Institutional support
through a twinning arrangement between P&T and a more developed
telecommunications organization is intended to (i) sensitize P&T
staff to operations of a commercial entity, and (ii) provide P&T with
access to the technical and managerial skills needed by thte company.
P&T will draw on the staff of the twinning organization to fill key
positions. Discussions with potential partners are in progress and
P&T is expected to sign a contract with the selected institution by
May 31, 1989, for a first phase of assistance over the period
1989-91. A condition of loan effectiveness is that arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank shall have been made with a twinning
organization (para. 6.2). This has been further specified in the
agreed minutes of negotiations as a letter of intent from the
twinning organization detailing pers,pnnel to be assigned, tr-^ning
for P&T staff and cost estimates. Terms of reference for the
managerial development program and the twinning arrangement are given
in Annex 9.
Project Costs
*3.7     The total cost of the project is estimated at F$68.5 million
(US$47.9 million equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of
F$42.9 million (US$30.0 million equivalent).  Details of project costs are
given in Annex 6 and summarized in Table 3.1.



- 14 -
Tablg-l.l: ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
% of
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  total
--- (F$ million) ----  --- (US$ million) ---
SUBSCRIBER NETWORK
Rural Radio and Carrier    2.1      5.0     7.1    1.5      3.5     5.0   10%
Cable Plant                 9.2     8.6    17.8    6.4      6.0    12.4   26%
PABXs, Teleprinters,
Pay phones               1.1      5.4     6.5    0.8     3.7      4.5    9%
TRUNK NETWORK
Transmission Equipment      2.3     5.0     7.3    1.7      3.4     5.1   11%
Junction Cables             0.2     0.5     0.7    0.1      0.4     0.5    1%
EXCHANGE PLANT
Exchanges and Power
Equipment                1.3      8.9    10.2    0.9     6.2      7.1   15%
COMPUTERIZATION               0.3     0.5     0.8    0.2     0.4      0.6    1%
BUILDINGS AND LAND            2.6     0.0     2.6    1.8     0.0      1.8    4%
MISCELLANEOUS tb              2.3     1.3     3.6    1.6      0.9     2.5    5%
CONSULTANCY                  0.0      1.3     1.3    0.0     0.9      0.9    2%
TOTAL BASE COST ta     21.4    36.4    57.8   15.0    25.4    40.4   84%
Contingencies
Physical                   1.6      1.8     3.4    1.1     1.3      2.4    5%
Price                      2.6      4.7     7.3    1.8     3.3      5.1   11%
TOTAL                  25.6    42.9    68.5   17.9    30.0    47.9  100%
/a  The costs include F$1.4 million (US$1.0 million) in local taxes and custom
duties on noncommunications equipment (computer and miscellaneous
subscriber terminal equipment).
.b  Includes vehicles, mechanical aids, tools, workshop equipment, furniture,
etc.
3.8      The project costs reflect:  (i) for equipment for which contracts
hiave already been signed, the contract price; (ii) for other components, end-
1987 prices based on P&T's contracts relating to ongoing works and on experi-
ence in other countries, with inflation adjustments to bring them to 1989
levels; and (iii) for technical assistance, the average man-month rates for
similar assignments in developing countries for the telecommunications sector.



- 15 -
Contingencies
3.9      Physical contingencies are based on 5% of local and foreign costs for
equipment, 10% of local and foreign costs for serviceP and 10% of civil works.
Price contingencies for foreign costs are based on increases of 5.3% p.a. in
1989-90, and 4.1% p.a. in 1991 and thereafter. Price contingencies for local
costs are assumed at 5% p.a. increases in 1989 and 1990 and 4% ir. 1991 and
thereafter. The local cost component does not include custom duties and
taxes, with the exception of 20% duty on noncommunications equipment
(computers, miscellaneous, and subscriber terminal equipment) which the
company is expected to incur with change ir status.
Project Financing and Terms
3.10     The project's foreign costs (US$30.0 million equivalent) would be
financed by the Bank, Australia through its Commodities Assistance Support
Program (CAS), the European Investment Bank (EIB) and P&T, as detailed in
Table 3.2. Foreign loans and grants will be provided to the Government and
on-lent to P&T on commercial terms.
Table 3.2: PROJR.CT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million equivalent)
Local          Foreign          Total           % of total
Bank                                   8.1              8.1               17
Australia              -                1.4             7.4               16
EIB /                  1.5             4.9              6.4               13
P&T                   16.4             9.6             26.0               54
Total            17.9            30.0             47.9              100
/a Excludes financing provided for 1989 investments. Total EIB loan is
7.0 million ECUs (US$7.9 million equivalent)
The Bank would finance underground and aerial cables, wires and materials for
the outside plant and consultancy services for restructuring and institutional
development. Grant funds provided through Australia's CAS program, on-lent to
P&T on commercial terms, will finance purchase of telephone exchanges. The
EIB loan will finance the transmission and rural radio systems, and junction
fiber-optic cable required for 1989-1992 investment. P&T would finance the
remaining foreign exchange gap, mainly for subscriber premises equipment
(telephone instruments and small private branch exchanges and extensions),
vehicles, tools and miscellaneous to be purchased from existing suppliers as
well as transmission equipment required for 1993-94 investments. The EIB has
expressed interest in providing a second loan for 1993-1995 transmission
systems. The project's local costs (US$17.9 million equivalent) will be
financed by P&T, with the exception of the transmission network local costs,



- 16 -
which will be financed by EIB. All funds including the Bank loan will be
passed on to P&T and subsequently on-lent to the new company on commercial
terms. P&T will bear the foreign exchange risk on both the EIB and Bank
Loans. The EIB Loan was approved by its board in January 1989, Loan
effectiveness is expected in May 1989. During negotia;..ions, understanding was
reached with the Government that the restructured P&T will continue to hava
priority access to necessary funds through the Australian CAS program to
finance exchange equipment. Alternatively, if these funds are not available,
the Government will ensure that the company has access to appropriate
alternative financing (para. 6.1).
Procurement
3.11     Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 3.3.



- 17 -
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEKENTS
(US$ million)
ICB       LCB      Other    N.A. L      Total
Subscriber Network
Rural radio and carrier
(including power)            3.3                 2.6                  5.9
Cable plant                    14.8                                      14.8
(7.0)                                    (7.0)
Subscriber equipment
(Telephones, PABXs,
teleprinters)                3.3                            2.0       5.3
Trunk Network
Transmission equipment          3.4                  2.6                  6.0
Junction cables                 0.5                                       0.5
Exchange Plant
Exchanges and power equip-
ment                         7.7                  0.8                  8.5
Comnuterization
Computer & terminals            0.5                            0.2        0.7
Buildings and land                        2.1                             2.1
Miscellaneous
(Tools, workshops, vehicles)              0.9        1.9       0.2       3.0
Consultancy
Technical assistance,                             1.1                  1.1
training, twinning                               (1.1)               (1.1)
arrangements
Total                     33.5       3.O        9.0       2.4A      ALI
(7.0)               (1.1)                (8.1)
Percent                     70         6         19         5       100
Percent of Bank loan        86         0         14         0       100
NOTE:  Figures in parentheses represent the amounts to be financed by the
proposed Bank loan, including contingencies.
La Taxes and duties on nontelecommunications equipment and subscriber
equipment



- 18 -
3.12     P&T will use international competitive bidding for the majority of
the project components. Following the Bank's "Guidelines--Procurement Under
IBRD Loans," P&T will award contracts on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) for the cable distribution network (US$7.0 million).
Technical assistance, US$0.5 million financed under the PPF, has been awarded
following the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants." Technical
assistance under the project will be arranged through direct negotiation
(management training, US$0.3 million, and twinning arrangement, US$0.3
million). The latter cannot be selected through competition because the
organizations that provide those services are not commercial and the program
must be especially designed for P&T. Items to be financed under the EIB loan
(US$6.1 million) will be procured on the basis of ICB, with a small percentage
(about 10%) through negotiations with the original suppliers. A long-term
contract for provision of switching equipment was awarded in 1985 following
ICB.
3.13     The Bank will review procurement documentation for contracts larger
than US$1.0 million (98% of contracts) prior to avird. 'Other Bank-financed
contracts will be subject to post-award review. Bid specifications will be
submitted to the Bank for review by end-July 1989. Invitations for bids will
follow thereafter. The Bank re';iewed the selection of PPF-financed
consultants and concurred to P&T's selection prior to the award of contracts.
The primary contract for the restructuring consultancv was awarded to
DETECON/AAB of the Federal Republic of Germany.
Disbursements
3.14     The proposed Bank loan of US$8.1 million would be disbursed against
items shown in Table 3.4, and includes PPF refinancing. Bank financing of
local expenditures for consultancy services and technical assistance will be
net of taxes and duties. P&T will establish a Special Account of US$400,000
with a bank acceptable to the Bank. This figure represents four months'
estimated average di bu.irsements. The Special Account would be used for
disbursements against all expenditures. Applications for replenishment would
be submitted at monthly intervals or whenever the account is drawn down by
about 50%. Establishment of the new company, the restructured P&T, would be a
condition of disbursement for cable contracts (para. 6.3). Disbursements for
contracts costing less than US$20,000 would be made against Statements of
Expenditure. Th;e supporting documentation will be retained by P&T and will be
made available for review by Bank supervision missions. The proposed loan
would be expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1995. The estimated
schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 10, based on the Bank's standard
disbursement profile for all projects in Fiji. The closing date of the loan
would be December 31, 1995.



- 19 -
Table 3.4: DISBURSEMENT OF PROPOSED LOAN
Amount             Percentage
(US$ mln)            financed
Cables and materials for Lelephotue              6.0      100% of foreign
distribution network                                    expenditures
Consultancy la                                   0.5      100% of total
expenditures
Technical cooperation and management             0.6      100% of total
trainlig                                                expenditures for
technical assistance,
100% of foreign ex-
penditures for over-
seas training.
Unallocated                                      1.0
Total                                        8.1
/a PPF-financed consultants. Disbursements will be made under the loan to
refinance the PPF.
Implementation
3.15     A high-level Steering Committee, chaired by the Permanent Secretary
of Trade and Industi.- has been established to oversee the restructuring pro-
cess. The Committee, which is supported by a full-time Project Coordinator
and working-level P&T staff, has responsibility for drafting sector policies,
redrafting existing legislation, and overseeing the restructuring of P&T.
3.16     The physical component of the project will be implemented by P&T,
except where installation would be done by contractors under P&T's supervi-
sion. Sw'itching and transmission equipment would be installed by P&T's staff
with suppliers' supervision. P&W would install the cable distribution network
with assistance Zrom the twinning organization. Crown Agents of London would
assist P&T in preparing cable bid specifications, evaluating bids, negotiating
contracts and testing of materials to ensure technical specifications are met.
Consultants provided by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU)
recommended the introduction of mechanical aids for trench excavation and
cable plowing 'dozers to expedite construction and lower costs. Experienced
engineers have been hired through Australia Telecommunications International
to help P&T improve cable construction methods as recommended by the ITU, and
supervise the execution of the project. The proposed schedule of constructior
for the major components is presented in Annex 11. The project is expected to
be completed by December 31, 1995. To ensure timely completion, it was agreed
during loan negotiations that field demand surveys for exchange areas included
in the 1990/91 investment program will be completed by December 31, 1989
(para. 6.1 (d)). Targets for each subsequent year will be agreed with the



- 20 -
Bank b, September 30 of the previous year.  No delays are anticipated because
of land acquisition; arrangement for long-term lease of Land required for the
expansion of P&T's buildings is expected to be completed at least six months
in advance of the start of construction.
Performance Indicators
3.17     Performance indicators to monitor P&T's implementation, operational
and financial performance are given in Annex 12. Although the targets for
later years are tentative, those for fiscal years 1989 and 1990 were agreed
upon during loan negotiations. Agreement was reached during loan negotiations
that targets for each of the subsequent years, together with any necessary
corrective measures, will be reviewed with the Bank by September 30 of the
preceding fiscal year (para. 6.1 (e)). During project implementation, P&T
will report progress against the physical indicators, through quarterly
project reports and progress against the financial indicators will be reported
in annual financial statements. Progress in restructuring the P&T will be
monitored against the detailed implementation plan to be prepared by the
restructuring consultants (para. 3.6(a)). P&T would prepare the Project
Completion Report six months after the closing date of the proposed loan.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Financial Performance
4.1      P&T's past financial performance has been acceptable, the result of
growth in telecommunications traffic and subscribers and slow growth in
operating costs. However, the rate of return on operating a3sets and revenue
growth has been constrained by infrequent and inadequate tariff adjustments,
and the restrained growth in operating costs which has contrituted to P&T's
profits reflects a gradual weakening of the institution (para. 2.14).
Telecommunications Operations
4.2      Historical financial statements for P&T's Telecommunications Branch
are provided in Annex 13 and summarized in Table 4.1.



- 21 -
Table 4.1:  P&T TELECONMUNICATIONS BRANCH HISTORICAL
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 1983-1987
(F$ million)
Year ending December 31           1983      1984     1985     1986      1987
Operating revenue                 18.31*   20.1      21.6     23.3      25.3
Operating expense                 15.0th   14.8      16.5Lq   17.7      19.51A
Operating income                   3.3      5.2       5.1      5.6       5.7
Interest expense                   1.2      1.3       1.4      7.5       1.7
Net income                         2.0      4.3       4.5      4.7       2.8
Contribution to Government         0.6      0.6       1.6      0.9       0.9
Indicators
Current ratio                    1.8      2.3       1.6      1.9      1.3
Operating ratio                 81.8     74.0      76.5     75.9      77.3
Debt service coverage            2.8      3.3       2.8      2.9       3.0
Return on revalued assets        6.0      8.9       8.0      8.2       7.6
Current (F$)
Telepbone revenues/DEL         613.8    635.6    655.7    679.9    695.0
Cash operating expenses/DEL   417.9    381.5    417.6    422.5    429.7
Real (F$, 1982)
Telephone revenues/DEL         575.3    565.5    559.0    569.5    550.7
Cash operating expenses/DEL   391.7    339.4    356.0    353.9    340.5
La  Reflects average tariff increase of 17%.
/b Reflects cost of retroactive adjustment in civil service salaries, cyclone
damages and revaluation of assets.
/c Reflects cost of reinstatement of service after cyclone.
1.4 Reflects revaluation of assets and effect of 33% devaluation of Fiji
dollar.
Financial performance of the Telecommunications Branch during 1983-1987 was
adequate but there were underlying problems reflecting inappropriate tariff
policies and cost reductions in many areas that affected institutional
performance. Revenue growth was constrained by difficulty in adjusting domes-
tic tariffs, impairment of the network due to natural disasters and consequent
diversion of resources for rehabilitation rather than network expansion.
Operating revenues increased 19% in 1983, when a tariff increase was imple-
mented. However, the price and income freeze in 1984-1985 and concerns
regarding the political effect of tariff increases in the pre-election year,
1986, ruled out further increases. Tariffs were not adjusted again until
early 1988. Nevertheless, because of increased subscriber connections P&T was
still able to achieve real growth in revenues of 4% on average despite a
decline in real terms of revenues per subscriber. P&T's internal efforts to
minimize costs and government policies to address economy wide problems (such
as the civil service hiring freeze in 1984-1986 and the 15% salary reduction



- 22 -
in 1987) helped slow the growth in operating costs. Real grouch in operating
expenses over the period averaged 3%, and cash operating expenses per
subscriber actually decreased 3% in real terms. As a consequence, P&T's
operating ratio declined from a high of 82% in 1983 to 77% in 1987. However,
this favorable trend to a large extent was due to slow growth in personnel
costs, reflecting the gradual weakening of the institution through loss of
skilled staff and increases in unfilled staff positions (para. 2.14).
Furthermore, the annual rate of return on average revalued net fixed assets in
operation averaged ony 7.7% over the period (1983-87) compared with 10-14%
for telephone investments in similar countries.
4.3      P&T has had limited access to external financing; hence the percent-
age of its investments financed with internal funds averaged 85% over the
period compared with 40-70% for other telephone companies at a similar level
of development. Since the second World Bank loan in 1976, P&T's principal
sources of external financing have been government loans and, more recently,
Australian aid financing on-lent by the Government for the purchase of
switching equipment. Lack of external financing had adverse consequences in
1987 when investment levels and the rate of program implementation increased
and the Government was unable to provide financing due to economic problems.
Because of increased self financing of capi,.al investments in 1987, P&T's
current ratio reached a historic low of 1.3 (1.0 excluding inventories).
Postal Operations
4.4      The financial performance of P&T's Postal Branch is summarized in
Table 4.2. The financial performance of Postal operations was outstanding in
comparison to other developing and some developed countries where postal
services generally operate at a loss. Therefore, in contrast to many
countries, there were no subsidies required from the Telecommunications
branch. Tariff policies are a critical factor in postal operations whore
financial performance is very sensitive to small changes in revenues. As for
the Telecommunications branch, stringent cost control and staff reductions due
to the civil service hiring freeze resulted in positive operating income in
most years, despite similar restrictions on tariffs.
Table 4.2: P&T POSTAL BRANCH FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
1983-1987
(F$ million)
Year ending December 31          1983      1984     1985     1986     1987
Operating revenue                 3.34      3.37     3.57     3.85     4.31
Operating expense                 3.41La   3.24      3.36     3.51     3.52
Operating income                 -0.07ka  0.13       0.21     0.34     0.79
Interest revenue                  0.25     0.28      0.22     0.21     0.28
Net income                        0.18      0.41     0.43     0.47     1.0 /b
La Reflects large retroactive salary increase.
lb Reflects increase in international in-payments with devaluation of the
Fiji dollar.



- 23 -
Projected Financial Performance
4.5      P&T's financial performance is expected to differ markedly from pre-
vious years due to changes in policies and company status. The financial
strategy which underlies projected future performance assumes automaticity in
pricing to ensure the financial health of the company and phased introduction
of financial policies applicable to commercial companies (taxation, import
duties) as profitability and cash flow increase. In accordance with proposed
sector policies (para. 3.6 (a)), postal and telecommunication tariffs are
expected to be adjusted annually in line with inflation with periodic revie.w
to determine required adjustment for productivity increases. If so, '&T's
Postal operation will continue to be profitable. Projected financial
statements for the telecommunications branch for FY1988-94 are provided in
Annex 14 and summarized in Table 4.3. Notes and assumptions relating to these
projections are provided in Annex 15. Telephone subscriber connections are
projected to grow at about 7% p.a. Increases in personnel costs are expected
to be significant in 1990 and 1991, as salaries are adjusted from the
currently depressed levels and existing vacancies are filled. From 1992
onwards, cost per staff member is expected to increase in line with inflation
and the ratio of staff per 1,000 lines to fall in accordance with agreed
performance targets as productivity increases. Assets will be revalued every
three years, with the next revaluation to be carried out in 1990. It is
assumed that the company will pay corporate taxes from 1992 onward and will
pay dividends equivalent to 20% of the previous year's net income in 1989
through 1992 and 30% thereafter.   During negotiations it was agreed that:
(i) every three years, beginning in 1990, P&T will review the value of its
fixed assets in operation and revalue as required in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the Government shall cause P&T
to take necessary ste?s, including annual review and adjustment of tariffs to
ensure a rate of return on average net revalued fixed assets in operation of
not less than 9% (para. 6.1 (f)).
Table 4.3: P&T TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 1988-1994
(F$ million)
Year ending December 31         1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Operating revenue               30.0   33.5   37.6   42.0   46.0   50.4   55.4
Operating expense               21.6   24.1   27.4   30.4   33.1   36.9   40.0
Operating income                 8.2    9.4   10.2   11.6   12.9   13.6   15.5
Net income                       6.6    7.8    7.1    8.0    5.9    6.2    7.4
Transfers to Government  0a 0.9    1.3    1.6    1.4    4.8    5.1    5.8
Indicators
Current ratio I               1.2    1.5    1.7    2.0    1.9    1.7    1.8
Operating ratio               72.4   72.0   73.0   72.4   71.9   73.1   72.0
Debt service coverage          4.2    4.0    3.2    3.1    2.7    2.8    2.5
Return on revalued assets      9.7   10.4   10.0   10.2   10.8   10.5   11.1
Internal cash/two-year
average investment          90.7   80.8   80.3   94.2   80.7   90.1   91.7
/a Taxes and dividends.
/b Excluding inventory.



- 24 -
Financial Forecast
4.6      P&T's Sources and Applications of Funds for telecommunications opera-
tions during 1990-1993 when 90% of project funds will be disbursed is summar-
ized in Table 4.4.
Table 4.4: P&T TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH FORECAST SOURCES
AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(1990-1993)
F$ million      %
Sources
Internal cash generation                                79.8
Less debt service                                    (27.2)
Net internal cash generation                            52.6            65
External financing                                      27.2            34
Other noncurrent liabilities                             0.6             1
Total Sources                                        80.4          100
&Aplications
Investments                                             61.9           77
Foreign                                              38.6           48
Local                                                23.3           29
Dividends                                                  6.3             8
Increase in working capital                               12.1            15
Total AnDlications                                   80.4          100
External financing is based on the agreed financing plan for P&T's investment
program over the period. (para. 3.10). P&T will fully finance local costs and
35% of foreign costs from internally generated funds. As profitability
increases, P&T's transfers to Government will grow through increased payment
of corporate taxes and dividends. P&T's cash management and debt-service
coverage will be closely monitored during project implementation. During
negotiations, it was agreed that P&T will take necessary steps to ensure a
current ratio, excluding inventories, of not less than 1.2 and debt service
coverage of not less than 1.5 (para. 6.1 (g)).



25 -
V.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
! ~~Benefits
5.1      Benefits from the proposed project will accrue to all sectors of the
economy and in particular to businesses and rura' communities. New users of
telecommunications services will also benefit. Restructuring of the P&T and
introduction of policies that promote commercial efficiency and private sector
participation will increase (i) the responsiveness of the sector to its users;
(ii) overall sector productivity; and (iii) the cost effectiveness of its
investments. Expansion and modernization of the network will improve access
to modern telecommunications services in Fiji and help integrate isolated
rural communities.
5.2      Access to the modern telecommunications services available in other
countries, through phased replacement of analog exchanges by digital exchanges
in high growth and business districts, will help stimulate growth and invest-
ments in and increase the competitiveness of nontraditional export-oriented
industries particularly in the free zones.  The business sector overall will
benefit from the increased management efficiency and productivity of economic
activities resulting from better communications.  In particular, liberaliza-
tion of the supply of terminal equipment and modernization of exchanges in
j          business centers will improve the match between customer requirements and
services provided.
5.3      Project emphasis on installation of rural PCOs will provide isolated
rural communities with basic access to telecommunication services, and help
improve their participation in the Fijian economy. Given the geographical
dispersion of the Fiji Island Group, benefits to these communities will
include more efficient use of high cost transportation services, improved
access to market information, and extension of government services.
5.4      The Government will also benefit, first as a user of telecommunica-
tions services and second through increased transfers from the sector
(para. 4.5) as a result of increased revenue generation and more efficient use
of sector resources. During 1990-1994 P&T is expected to provide about
F$36.5 million to the Government in the form of dividends and taxes
(F$20 million), interest payments on grant and subsidized loan funds
(F$12.0 million) and repayment of grant funds (F$4.5 million).
Tariffs
5.5      Telecommunications tariffs at end-1987 and the revised tariffs that
became effective in February 1988 are summarized in Annex 16. Tariff levels
in Fiji are low in comparison to similar countries. This reflects the diffi-
culties experienced in the past in obtaining needed tariff increases
(para. 2.24 (c)).   This practice has complicated the tariff structure.  Thus,
while the current tariff for local calls is about average for similar coun-
tries; rentals for direct lines and private automatic branch exchanges (PABXs)
are below average. International tariffs have not been adjusted in recent
years. The P&T is paid a flat rate per minute for incoming and outgoing
international calls. On the basis of a recently negotiated agreement with



- 26 -
FINTEL for the period 1987-1989, P&T gets about 34% of total international
revenues accruing to Fiji which is about average.
5.6      To ensure F&T's future performance is not affected by poor tariff
policies, revised sector policies include provision for adjustment of overall
levels of tariffs in line with inflation subject to periodic review. In
addition, the restructuring consultants will review the current levels and
structure of domestic tariffs and the basis for division of international
revenues between P&T and FINTEL and recommend: (a) an appropriate tariff
structure and the period over which adjustments would be made; and (b) an
arrangement for division of international revenues.
Return on Investments
5.7      The internal rate of return of the project based on financial flows
is 22% (Annex 17). This assumes regular adjustment of tariffs in line with
inflation (para. 5.6). It is a conservative estimate of the economic rate of
return because it does not take into account consumer surplus and the external
benefits that accrue to the economy as a whole as a result of improved
telecommunication services. A sensitivity analysis carried out of the project
rate of return indicates that in the worst-case scenario a 20% increase in
capital costs, 20% reduction in revenues, and 20% increase in operating costs,
the internal rate of return would fall to 10.6% which is still adequate.
Project Risk
5.8      Possible project risks are (a) major delays in implementing restruc-
turing, (b) disruption of P&T's operations during the transition, and
(c) delays in identifying a qualified managerial team. To minimize the first
risk, a high-level steering committee has been established with working-level
support to oversee the process (para. 3.15). The demonstrated strong
commitment of both Government and P&T to rapid change further minimizes the
risk. To minimize the second risk, major emphasis will be placed on personnel
issues including management training and development, and interim personnel
policies to allow smooth transfer of staff. To mitigate the third risk, the
project coordinator (para. 3.15) will help fill the managerial gap and support
senior management in the event of delays in identifying suitable candidates to
fill key positions in the new organization. There are no unusual risks
associated with the physical components of the projects.
Least-Cost Solution
5.9      The project (para. 3.5) represents the least-cost solution for
expanding and modernizing P&T's existing network. Outside plant design was
reviewed by consultants as part of project preparation and their
recommendations have been reflected in project design and in the investment
program. The proposed modernization of the network through phased
introduction of digital equipment and redeployment of electromechanical
equipment is cost-effective given the characteristics of the telecommunication
network in Fiji.



- 27 -
Environmental and Health Asgects
5.10     No adverse environmental or health effects are foreseen.  Indeed, the
proposed project should afford improvements through more efficient use of
transportation facilities and better delivery of health care to isolated rural
communities.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements Reached during Negotiations
6.1      During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a) For FY89, P&T will submit to the Bank unaudited and audited
financial statements within six months and ten months,
respectively, of the close of the fiscal year. For 1990 and
subsequent years following the restructuring of P&T and
computerization of its accounting systems, unaudited financial
statements and financial statements audited by an audit firm
satisfactory to the Bank will be submitted within four months
and six months, respectively, of the close of the fiscal year
(para. 2.20).
(b) By Novembar 30, 1989, the Government will take all necessary
measures to facilitate restructuring of the telecommunications
sector.
(c) The Government shall cause the new company (the restructured
P&T) to be established in accordance with an implementation plan
satisfactory to the Bank, and will enter into an on-lending and
operating agreement with the company satisfactory to the Bank
that will include on-lending loan funds from the Government to
the new company on commercial terms and project-specific
conditionality (including financial and performance targets)
originally applicable to P&T (para. 3.6 (b)).
(d) Field demand surveys for exchange areas included in the 1990/91
investment program will be completed by December 31, 1989, and
targets for completing surveys required for later years will be
established jointly with the Bank during project implementation
(para. 3.16).
(e) P&T will aim to achieve the performance targets for fiscal 1989
and 1990 which have been recorded in the minutes of
negotiations, together with action plans to achieve them. For
future years, targets, together with any necessary corrective
measures, will be reviewed with the Bank by September 30 of the
preceding fiscal year (para. 3.17).
(f) Every three years beginning in 1990, P&T will review the value
of its fixed assets in operation and revalue as required in



- 28 -
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and the
Government shall cause P&T to take necessary steps including
annual review and adjustment of tariffs to ensure a rate of
return on average net revalued fixed asseti in operation of not
less than 9% (para. 4.5).
(g) P&T will take necessary steps to ensure a current ratio,
excluding inventories, of not less than 1.2 and debt service
coverage of not less than 1.5 (para. 4.6).
In addition, during negotiations an understanding waa reached with the
Government that the restructured P&T will continue to have priority access to
funds through the Australian CAS program to finance exchange equipment. If
these funds are not available, the Government will ensure that the company has
access to apprcpriate alternative financing (para. 3.10).
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
6.2     During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following conditions
of loan effectiveness: (a) submission to the Bank of a detailed implementa-
tion plan ftr restructuring of P&T (para. 3.6 (b)); and (b) arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank with a twinning organization (para. 3.6 (c)).
Condition of Loan Disbursement
6.3     Establishment of the new company (the restructured P&T) will be a
condition of disbursement for contracts for procurement of cables
(para. 3.14).
Recommendations
6.4     Subject to agreement being reached on the above, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US;8.1 million equivalent for a term of 17 years
including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The
borrower will be the Government of Fiji.



FIJI
Posts and Telecomunications Denartient CP&T2
Easic Sector Statistics
December 31t   1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Telenbone Service
Local exchange lines capacity ('000)           21.3    21.4    32.7    25.0    26.7    30.2    33.3    35.9    40.4    40.6    40.7    42.8    51.2
Automatic (S)                                88.3    88.1    90.9    94.4    94.6    94.5    94.9    94.8    95.6    95.1    94.8    94.6    97.5
LLnes in servlce (O000)                        16.1    17.3    18.5    19.6    21.3    23.9    26.5    25.7    27.7    28.8    29.8    31.8    34.0
Exchaa8e fill (S)                            75.6    80.8    81.5    78.4    79.8    79.1    79.6    71.6    68.6    70.9    73.2    74.3    66.4
Telephonae connected ('000)                    28.5    30.8    32.7    34.8    37.5    42.6    46.3    46.7    49.5    51.3    53.2    56.6    60.0
Average telephoneslline                       1.8     1.8      1.8     1.8      1.8     1.8     1.8      1.8     1.8     1.8      1.8     1.8      1.8
Publie telephones                               238     238      272     278      280     292     329      330     345     362      370     371      371
Outstanding applications ('000)                 5.0     6.4      7.6     9.6      9.7     9.5     9.4      9.4     8.6    10.3    12.3    11.1    10.8
Traffic
Local and long-distance (million units)    75.3    81.6    90.0    88.7   101.0   106.3   101.7   115.3   135.9   142.0   155.8   166.S   176.1
International outgoing (million minutes)   0.06   0.126        0.9     1.1     1.4      1.5     1.8     2.1      2.2     2.5      2.9     3.5      4.8
Access to service
Working lines/100 population                 2.79    2.94    3.08    3.20    3.41    3.74    4.08    3.88    4.09    4.17    4.25    4.50    4.70
Telex Srvlce
Exchange lines capacity                         160     240      240     240      240     750     750      750     750     750   1,760   1,760   1,760
Lines in serviee                                145     173      200     224      235     265     334      399     448     507      589     649      680
Outstanding applications                         16       19      21      32       75      87      43        5      46      44       65      44       17
Traffic
Domestic (million pulses)                    1.00    0.69    0.48    0.63    1.60    1.60    1.41    1.49    1.50    1.40    1.00    1.14    0.92
International outgoing (million minutes)   0.16    0.75    0.38    0.42    0.49    0.52    0.68   0.787   0.847   1.016   1.125    1.20    0.98
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



- 30 -                          AlNE  I
Page 1
ELU
Petin and Ite1co    arians  hlartm.nt (P&T)
Exiatng Teecoricattens facilities (Decemher 31- 1987)
1. lal Telephone Ser4ce
Installed                             Expressed
Exschange              Type     cyac1tvY      DEL      Telephones    demand/a
Southobrn Dlstriet,
S                   S.C,D    12 472        6 642      17,055         6 884
Samabula              C        7,000       5,833       8.065         6,602
Laucala Bay           C          600         278          793          315
Loi                   C        2,000       1,158       2,070         1,273
Nasinu                C        4,000       3,366        3,930        3,974
Nausori               C        3,000       2,232       3,036         3,475
Deuba                 C          400         329         441           506
Navua                 C          400         303         471           504
Levuka                C          400         230         295           274
Tallevu               1          .100         96          156          192
Vunisea               K          100          31           39          118
Lakeba                I          100          59          63           106
Vunidawa              1          100          64           69          206
Nayavu                I          100          12           14           98
Lomaloma              M          100          45          46            70
Loaivuna              1          100          26          30            90
Koro                  M          100          12           13           96
Qarani                M          100          15           15           78
Subtotal                   31.,172     20.731      36.551        74,61
Northern DIstriet
basa                    D        3.072       1,902       2,778         2,535
Savusavu              K          300         275         432           359
Taveuni               K          400         154         321           244
Tukavesl              K           50          21          38            46
Nabouvalu             K          100          43          48            85
Seaqaqa               K          100          75          84           156
laianikoro            K          100          24          25            64
Rabi                  K          100          38          62            73
Subtotal                    4.222       2.532       3.788
Vlegt&rn District
SIiatoka              C        1.000         860       2,352         1,410
Nai                   C        2,000       1,237       2,472         2 026
Namaka                C        2,000       1,419       3,199         2,167
Lautoka               D        6,144       4,637       8,124         5 982
Ba                    C        3,000       1,349       1,909         2,580
Vatukoula             t          240         198          346          355
Tavua                 C          600         473         549           840
Rakiraki              C          800         556         717         1,018
Nadarivatu             S          20           9           10            9
Subtotal                   15.804      10.738      19.678       16.387
Total Fili            $.1,198     34.Q01       60.017       44.810
LA DELs in service plus outstanding applications.
Notes:  Exchange types:  C:  Crossbar electrosechanLcal comon control (15)
S: Ste p-b -step electromechanical (2)
D: Digital SPC (3)
K: Manual, central battery (17)



-31-                        A        2
Page 2
2. Long-Distance Tele_he Servc
SwLtching. There are two long-distance electromechanical crossbar switching
centers in Suva and Lautoka, with 1,800 and 1,200 circuits each. Direct
distance dialing is provided to all subscribers on automatic exchanges.
International service is provided by an exchange in FINTEL, with the same
characterLstics. Operator-handled traffic is provided, with IDD available
only in Suva, Lautoka and Labasa. The total number of long-distance circuits
in operaw !on was 1,050.
Transmission
Microwave links (Analog)                                        Capaclty, ch.
Suva-Navua-Dogowai -Sigatoka                                           960
Sigatoka-Emori-Kavukavu-Namaka.                                        960
Suva-South Rid e-Lautoka                                               960
Lautoka-Nadi Airport                                             1,350/960
Navua-Deuba                                                            300
Dogowali-Korolevu                                                      120
Forest Park-NausorL                                                    300
South Ridge-Delaikoro-Labasa                                           600
Delaikoro-Des Veaux Peak                                               300
South Ridge-Tavua                                                      300
South Ridge-Nailaga-Ba                                                 300
Note:  In addition, there are some VHF/UHF links to smaller population centers
and some trunk cables.
3. Telex and Data 5arvices
Swltching. An electronic exchange in Suva provide the international and
national service. The exchange has final capacity for 1,760 lines and trunks,
and subscribers were 680 in 1987.
Transmlssion
Hultiolex Systems
Type                           Number       t 1 Capacity             O erating
Type                Number      ~~~~telegraph channels    chaun
Frequency division mult.        19                253                  151
Time division mult.              4                184                   88
International Channels. A total of 67 international telegraph channels
operating the most important routes:
AustralLa                 17 channels
United States             16 channels
New Zealand               11 channels
Hong Kong                  7 channels
Japan                      7 channels
Great Britain              6 channels



FIJI
P & T DEPARTMENT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TELEPHONE DEMAND AND SUPPLY
900-
so -I
0 
70 
460-
250
10 
K0                                            
80    81    82   83    84   85   88   87   88   89    90.  91    02   03    04
YEAR-



FIJI
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATION DEPARTMENT (P&T)
Organizational Chart
Minister of
Communications.
Transport and Works
Permanent Secretary
Post and
Telecommunications
jZ Telecommunica;%* |  |    Postal                 Training               Finance             Administration         Audat
t  Operations- Headquarters                                    _ Finance and                                                               w
Bvlpet        - Western Region                              -Epnftr
- Central Region                           - Postal Accounts
Northern Region
Eastern Region                                Revenue-billing
and CoUlections
Stores
EK\W43709b
41-



- 34 -
FuIJ
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Posts and Telecommunications Department (P&T}
Staff Composition Lj
1987
Telecommunications Branch
Engineers                                          78
Technical officers/technicians                    715
Traffic officers/supervisors                       69
Telephone operators                               184
Total                                       1.046
Postsal Branc%
Managerial/administrative                         179
Postmen                                            94
Total                                         273
,Other
Administrative                                     62
Finance and accounting                            111
Training center                                    26
Total                                          22
Effective Telecommunications Staff          1.220
JA Based on authorized staff positions. There were
245 vacancies at end-1987 and 230 permanent
unestablished staff.



-35-                                               ANKM 
- 35 -                                ~~~~~~~~~~Page 1
THIRD TELECOMMUUICATIONS PROJECS
Posts *nd Telecomiuntiations Deuprrment (P&T)
Investment Proara
(F$ '000)
1989      1990      1991     1992       1993      1994        Total/b
ONGGONG WmORKS                       F J.  8,383.0                                                          8,383.0
L     4,914.0                                                          4,914.0
T    13,297.0                                                         13,297.0
PROJECT
F               1,113.0   1,428.0   1,103.0  1,103.0      220.6        4,967.6
{   SUBSCI 1 SNETW ORK               L                 495.0    580.0      485.0     485.0      97.0        2,142.0
[   Rusal Radio and Carrier          T               1,608.0   2,008.0   1,588.0   1,588.0     317.6        7,109.6
Cable Plant                          F               1,750.0  1,750.0   1,750.0   1,750.0   1,571.0         8,571.0
L               2,000.0   2,000.0   2,000.0   2,000.0   1,200.0        9,200.0
T               3,750.0   3,750.0   3,750.0   3,750.0   2,771.0       17,771.0
Subserlber Equipment                 F               1,628.0   1,178.0   1,178.0   1,178.0     235.6        5,397.6
(Telephones, PAUXa,                 L                  325.6    235.6    235.6    235.6         47.1        1,079.5
Teleprfnters)                        T               1,953.6   1,413.6  1,413.5  1,413.6    282.7           6,477.1
TRUNK NETWORK
TransmissLon Equipment               F               1,540.0   1,230.0    750.0  1,195.0       239.0        4,954.0
L                 756.0    325.0    200.0    910.0    182.0            2,373.0
T               2,296.0   1,555.0    950.0  2,105.0       421.0        7,327.0
Junction Cables                      F                 165.0    166.0       36.0      95.0       0.0          462.0
L                 103.0      56.0       8.0      32.0       0.0          199.0
T                 268.0    222.0       44.0    127.0        0.0          661.0
E-CEUNGE PLANT
Exchanges & Power Equlpment          P               2,332.1   1,789.8  2,549.0   1,856.9    394.1          8,921.9
L                 347.0    324.0    284.0    250.0         50.0        1,255.0
T               2,679.1   2,113.8  2,833.0   2,106.9      444.1       10,176.9
CWMPUTERIZATION
Computer & Terminas1                 F                 500.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0          500.0
L                 300.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0          300.0
T                 800.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0          800.0
BUILDINGS AND LAND                   F                   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0            0.0
L                 600.0    750.0      600.0     600.0       0.0        2,550.0
T                 600.0    750.0      600.0     600.0       0.0        2,550.0
MSctLLASEOUS                         F                 317.0    317.0    317.0    317.0         63.4        1,331.4
(Tools, Workshops, Vehicles)        L                  539.0    539.0    539.0    539.0    107.8            2,263.8
T                 856.0    856.0    856.0    8'SS.0    171.2           3,595.2
CONSULTA'CY
Technical assistance,                P       748.0      72.0     380.0      60.0      20.0       0.0        1,280.0
Training, TwLnnlng Arrangements      L         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0            0.0
T       748.0      72.0     380.0      60.0      20.0       0.0        1,280.0
TOTAL BASE COST                      F       748.0   9,417.1  8,238.8   7,743.0   7,514.9   2,723.7        36,385.5
L         0.0   5,465.6   4,809.6   4,351.6   5,051.6   1,683.9       21,362.3
T       748.0  14.882.7 23.048.4 12.094.6 12.536.5  4.407.6           57.747.8



- 36-                                         AEM= A
Page 2
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994         Totallb
TAIWS AND cuSTro DUTI8          L       0.0   489.0   299.0   299.0   299.0    59.8          1,445.8
TOTAL DM51 COST LESS            F      748.0  9,417.1  8,238.8  7,743.0  7,514.9  2,723.7   36,385.5
TAXES AND CUST0 DUTIES          L       0.0  4,976.6  4,510.6  4,052.6  4,752.6  1624.1      19,916.5
T     748.0 14,393.7 12,749.4 11,795.6 12,267.5  4,347.8    5.,302.0
Co SDXWEFCI1S                   P       0.0   474.5   430.9   390.2   376.7   136.2          1,808.5
Pbyxalcl                        L        0.0   378.8   363.0   332.6   367.6   141.2         1,583.3
T       0.0   853.3   794.0   722.8   744.4   277.4          3,391.8
Price                           F        0.0   524.3   833.8  1,147.7  1,482.9   676.7        4,665.3
L       0.0   267.8   448.4   595.0   927.3   403.1          2,641.6
T       0.0   792.0  1,282.2  1,742.7  2,410.2  1,079.8      7,306.8
TOTAL PROJDCT                   F      748.0 10,415.8  9,503.5  9,280.9  9,374.5  3,536.5   42,859.2
L       0.0  6,112.2  5,621.0  5,279.2  6,346.5  2,228.2    25,587.2
T      748.0 16.528.0 15.124.5 14.560.1 15.721.0  5.764.7   6S.446.4
FUTUR EORKS                     P                                               5,890.7      5,890.7
L                                               2,998.2      2,998.2
T                                               8,888.9      S,8S8.9
TOTAL INVEST)UUT PROGRAM        F    9,131.0 10,415.8  9,503.5  9,280.9  9374.5  9427.2     57,132.9
L    4,914.0  6,112.2  5,621.0  5,279.2   6346.5  5226.4    33,499.4
I   14.045.0 16.528.0 21,224.5 14.560.1  15721.0  14653.6    0.632.S
La F - orelgzuEbobaga  L-Loca1s T  Total Costs
b Totals may not add due to roundLng.



- 37 -                           NNEX 7
Page 1
THIRD TELECOMKUNICATIONS PROJECT
Posts and Telecommunications Department (P&T)
Details of Physical Components
1.       The principal items to be installed during the project period are
given below.  Items to be financed from the proposed Bank Loan are so
indicated.
A. Local Telephone Service
Outside Plant
2.       The Bank would finance the cables and other materials for the
distribution network for 15,000 DELs, approximately 80,000 km-pair. The
distribution by exchange is in proportion to the exchange capacity list in the
next section.
Exchanges
3.       The following list details the expansion program, with digital stored
program-controlled exchanges:



-38 -                             ANNEX 7
Page 2
Exchanges                         Capacity    Replacement
(lines)      (lines)        In service date
Group I (1990)
Ba                                   384                      April 1990
Deuba                                256                      June 1990
Korovou                              256             100      August 1990
Lakeba                               128             100      October 1990
Lautoka                            1,024                      January 1990
Nasinu                               512                      May 1990
Vunidawa                             128             100      August 1990
Suva (in dial including            1,024                      April 1990
GSS -extension)
Tavua                              1,024             600      April 1990
Group 2 (1991)
Levuka                               384             400      December 1991
Labasa                             1,024                      December 1991
Navua                                128                      December 1991
Nabouwalu                            128             100      December 1991
Sigatoka                             256                      December 1991
Saamabula                            256                      December 1991
Group 3 (1992)
Lautoka (including GSS)            1,024                      December 1992
Deuba                                256                      December 1992
Lami                                 256                      December 1992
Nadi                                 512                      December 1992
Namaka                               512                      December 1992
Nausori                              384                      December 1992
Rakiraki                           1,024             800      December 1992
Seaqaqa                              128                      December 1992
Group 4 (1993)
Nasinu                               512                      December 1993
Sigatoka                           1,024                      December 1993
Samabula                             512                      December 1993
Vunisea                              128             100      December 1993
Wainikoro                            128             100      December 1993
Total                       13.312          2.400
B. Long-Distance Service
4.       Digital exchanges to be installed at Suva, Lautoka and Labasa will be
the new transit centers, gradually replacing the ARM exchanges. A new digital
microwave transmission system will link those exchanges, replacing obsolete
and saturated analog systems. The long-distance expansion is as follows:



- 39 -                            ANNEX 7
Page 3
System                               Capacity                In service date
Forest Park-Korovou                 2x2 Mb/s                 December 1990
Suva - Rotuma                       HF                       December 1990
Forest Park-Delaiko                 34 Mb/s                  December 1990
Forest Park-Suva                    140 Mb/s                 December 1990
Monasavu-Dobuileva-NamuKoloa        VHF                      December 1990
Forest Park-Vunidawa                2x2 Mb/s                 December 1990
Koro-Nabouwalu                      2x2 Mb/s                 December 1991
Des Voeux Peak-Lau                  2x2 Mb/s                 December 1990
Suva Moala                          HF                       December 1990
Suva-Sigatoka                       34 Mb/s                  December 1991
South Ridge-Delaikoro               34 Mb/s                  December 1992
Tokou-Gau-Moale                     8 Mb/s                   December 1993
Forest Park-South Ridge             34 Mb/s                  December 1993
Delaikoro-Dreketi                   VHF                      December 1990
5.       Additions of digital multiplex equipment will complement the digital
radio program indicated above.
C.  Rural Telephone Service
6.       P&T will install 60 rural radio telephone stations during 1989-93.  A
pilot project of multiaccess radio with ten initial subscribers will be
installed in 1989. Selection of localities was done by consultation between
P&T, the Government and the local authorities. From 1990 onwards, one system
with 48 subscribers will be added per year. The mode of operation will be
semi-public (private subscriber with access to the public).
D. Telex and Data Services
7.       No expansion in telex subscribers is contemplated in the project.
Only teleprinters will be replaced, since the telex exchange is modern. Two
TDM channeling systems will be bought in 1987 and one 46 TDM per year for the
rest of the period. Thirty-six modems will be added per year, to provide data
transmission services throughout Fiji.
E. Land. Buildings and Roads
8.       New buildings are planned for Vunidawa (1989), Lakeba and Vunisea
(1990) exchanges. A new radio repeater station will be built in Koro (1988).
Sixty prefabricated rural radio enclosures will be built and installed during
the project.



-40 -                              ANN    7
Page 4
F. Computer and M.I.S.
9.       P&T with the assistance of the Government's data processing
department will replace the existing billing system and implement computerized
administrative, financial and management information systems.
G. Miscellaneaus
10.      Tools, machinery, test equipment, vehicles, etc.



ANNEX 8
- 41 -                            Page 1
FIJI
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Posts and Telecommunications Department (P&T)
Terms of Reference for Restructuring
Introduction
1.       Public posts and domestic telecommunications services in Fiji are
provided by the Department of Posts and Telecommunications (P&T) of the
Ministry of Communications, Transport and Works. Although a government
department, P&T has been financially independent since 1974. In 1986, return
on total equity of the Telecommunications Department vas 9? (as a government
department P&T does not pay taxes).
2.       International telecommunications are provided under franchise by Fiji
International Telecommunications Limited (FINTEL), a private company owned
jointly by the Government of Fiji (51Z) and Cable and Wireless PLC of the UK
(492). FINTEL's management is now essentially Fijian though Cable and
Wireless provides training and strategic inputs through Board members as
required. FINTEL is highly profitable: in 1986, earnings on total equity
after tax were 36Z.
3.       The,public telephone network comprises about 35,000 direct exchanges
lines and about 61,500 telephones connected to 36 telephone exchanges. About
680 telex lines and about Z0O data service lines are also provided. Trunk
services are provided through 19 microwave stations. International services
are provided through submarine cables to Honolulu, Vancouver, Auckland and
Sydney and a standard A earth station near Suva.
4.       The Government of Fiji has decided to restructure the Department of
Posts and Telecommunications (P&T) as a 100? Government-owned limited
liability company according to Fijian Company's Act, and to establish an
appropriate framework for regulation of the Posts and Telecommunications
Sector.
5.       The Government has engaged consultants under separate terms of
refereuce to review sector policy and revise existing legislation and
regulation. The terms of reference of the sector policy consultants are
attached for information as Annex 1.  The Government also intends to enter
into a twinning arrangement with a more developed telecommunication company by
Spring 1989, which will provide managerial and training support to P&T. A
background paper on policy issues, elaborating the Government's decision and
intentions is attached for information as Annex 2.
6.       The Government also intends to engage consultants to help plan all
aspects of the restructuring of the P&T from a government department to a
Company's Act Company.



-42 -                              ANNEX 8
Page 2
Oblectives of the Restructuring Consultancy
7.       The objectives of the consultant are therefore to recomend
appropriate organizational and financial structures for the new P&T company,
planning procedures, information systems, personnel policies and a manpower
plan for the company on its initial stage. The consultant will also recommend
an implementation plan for bringing the new P&T into existence.
8.       The policy, regulations and legislations consultant will recommend
the regulatory functions that should be exercised directly by the Ministry,
and aspects of technical regulation that could be delegated to the new P&T.
The policy consultant will also recommend the expertise and number of
regulatory staff needed within the new P&T. The restructuring consultant will
incorporate this in his recommendations. In outlining the implementation
plan, the restructuring consultant will take into account the legal rights of
the P&T civil servants according to guidelines provided by the Public Service
Commission.
9.       The restructuring consultant will carry out his assignment in
accordance with the Action Plan established by the Steering Committee,
appointed by the Government.
Steering Committee
10.      The consultant will perform his work under the guidance of the
Steering'Committee. The Government intends to identify the future Board of
Directorc of the restructured company subsequent to approval of the policy
statement and the revised legislation. At that stage the Board will replace
the Steering Committee as the decision-making body.
Counterpart Staff--Access to Information
11.      P&T *ill assign counterpart personnel to participate in the
restructuring study. The consultant will ensure maximum transfer of know-how
to these personnel, especially in those commercial functions presently absent
from P&T. The consultant will be provided with information on in-house P&T
initiatives, including ongoing and proposed training programs which may have a
bearing on the consultancy.
Outline of Work
12.      The work will entail three main phasess  planning the new P&T,
planning the implementation of the restructuring plan, and assisting in the
final decision-making process.
Planning the New P&T
13.      The consulUnt will review the organization of P&T, staffing and
training, and all aspetcts of current planning, management, development,
operations and tariff-setting practices. The consultant will also review
P&T's present financial position.



ANNEX 8
- 43 -                              Page 3
14.      From this review, and taking into consideration the Government's
policy guidelines for sector restructuring, the consultant will recommend
desired corporate objectives. Corporate objectives would includes expansion
of services; development of services in rural areas; modernization strateg);
setting of tariffs; improvement of quality of service; improvement of
financial performance; and development of the new P&T's human resources base.
Corporate objectives should be developed separately for telecommunications and
postal services.
15.      Following this, the consultant will specify the appropriate
commercial structure of the new company. Recommendations should cover the
company's financial structure; financial incentives; composition of the Board
of Directors; the organizational structure of the company, tailored to the
corporate objectives for telecommunications and postal services; the structure
of profit and cost centers; distribution of functions and decision-making
powers; outline of steering principles; and information systems needs.
16.      In recommending the commercial structure, the consultant will examine
the desirability of setting up special rural services divisions and of
procuring some functions externally. He will also specify the organization of
various functions that currently do not exist within P&T.
17.      The consultant will evaluate the financial consequences of the
recommendations on corporate objectives and financial and organizational
structures and financial policies developed by the policy consultant. After
approval of the proposed corporate objectives, and financial and organization
structures, the new board will be identified.
18.      Next, the consultant will recommend an interim manpower plan and
personnel policies covering terms and conditions of the new company.
Recommendations on salaries and benefits will take into account the need
(i) to link renumeration to staff productivity, and (ii) to attract and retain
skilled technical and managerial staff.
19.      The manpower plan will quantify the staffing needs for the different
units of the new organization, specifying the needs with respect to types and
levels of expertise. The plan will also provide job descriptions for each
director and department manager. It is the intention that the senior managers
of the new company will be identified at this stage, and be assigned as key
counterpart staff.
20.      The consultant will also identify relevant e'aff associations, and
propose the type of agreement the company should reach with each association.
Planning the Implementation of the Restructuring Plan
21.      The consultant will design a plan to effect the restructuring of P&T
into the new company. The plan will, according to the established action
plan, comprise two parts.
22.      The first will cover the establishment of the company as a legal
entity; acquisition of the share capital; issue of license; appointment of the
Board of Directors; appointment of General and Deputy Managers; fixing of



ANNEX 8
- 44 -                          Page 4
general conditions for transfer of staff from P&T to the new company; and
outlining the Board's and the new management's authority with respect to the
former P&T in the transition period.
23.      The second part of the plan will serve as as  indicative instrument
for the Board and Management of the new P&T to help in making the new P&T
operational as quickly as possible after the establishment of the company,
accompanied by dissolution of the former P&T, and establishment of the new
regulatory entity for the Posts and Telecommunications sector in the Ministry.
The plan wilh comprise (a) transfer of staff; (b) preliminary placing of staff
in the new organization; (c) specifications of initial work, including
information desimination, training needs assessment and preparation of a
training program, detailing of manpower plan, and of management systems; and
(d) procedures to be followsd in making future adjustments of organization and
manpoter. The plan will be accompanied by recommendations for external
assistance in the transition period, focussing especially on those functions,
which presently do not exist within P&T.
Assistance in the Ultimate Decision-making Process
24.      On the basis of his proposals for restructuring of P&T and for
implementation of the restructuring plan respectively, the consultant will
assist the (identified) board during the ultimate decision-making process on
the proposals by responding to questions, elucidating options, estimating
consequences, and drafting necessary amendments to the plans.
25.      Finally, the consultant will present the restructuring plan and the
implementation plan to the Board of Directors and to the new Management. The
consultant will also go through with the Board and Management his
recommendations for external assistance in the initial period.
ConsultinR Team
26.      The consultancy will require a multidiscplinary team with experience
of similar acsignments in developing countries. The team will include
management specialists, economists, financial analysts and telecommunications
engineers. The team leader should have relevant experience in this function.
P&T estimates the consultancy will r luire about 27 man-months of consulting
effort, divided as below, and to cover a period of 6-7 months. However, the
consultant should quote the number of man-months they consider necessary to
fulfill the terms of reference.
Man-Months
Planning the new company                          18
Planning Implementation                            7
Assistance in Final decision making                2
Total                                         27
Reporting Requirements
27.      The consultant will provide reports at four stages of the
consultancy. After three weeks of field work, the consultant will provide an



- 45 -                    ~~~~~ANNEXC 8
Page 5
inception report highlighting any potential problems with the work plan agreed
and providing suggestions of how difficulties would be resolved. When the
consultant has finished the planning of the new P&T at the end of the fourth
working month, he will submit a Draft Final Report on this part of the work.
At this stage he will also summarize overall work progress and update plans if
necessary. Upon completion of the field work, the consultant will submit a
Draft Final Report on the implementation plan for effecting the change of P&T
into a private company. The c3nsultant will discuss the reports with P&T,
other arms of Government and reflect comments in a Final Report covering all
activities..



- 46 -                             ANNEX 9
Page I
FIJI
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Posts and Telecommunications Department (P&T)
Terms of Reference for Manaaement Development and Institutional SUpport
A. Organizational Support Through Twinning Arrangement
Introduction
1.       P&T hereinafter called the 'GUEST' institution is the Department of
Posts and Telecommunications of the Ministry of Communications, Transport and
Works in Fiji, which is responsible for provision of all public posts and
domestic telecommunications services in Fiji. The 'GUESTO institution's
government has decided to restructure P&T as a 100? government-owned company
and to establish an appropriate framework for regulation of the Posts and
Telecommunications Sector. The 'GUEST' institution has a development program
which calls for expansion and modernization of the Network. During the plan
period, 1990-94, the number of the direct exchange lines are expected to
increase from its present 34,000 to about 60,000. Also included in the plan
is a program of institutional building to increase the commercial orientation
of management and the human resources of the institution, especially
professional and managerial staff.
Objectives
2.       The objective of the twinning arrangement is to use the services of a
more developed telecommunications entity, hereinafter called the 'HOST'
institution to provide technical cooperation to the 'GUEST' to improve its
capacity to handle the development of the overall organization.
Identification of Twinning Partner
3.       P&T will visit two to three telecommunication companies that are
rL.garded as potential candidates for a Twinning Agreement and will select one
as a twin. The criteria for selection will be as followss
(a) The twin organization should excel in most of these areas;
Corporate Planning
Personnel Management
Financial Planning
Management Information Systems
Management Strategy
Marketing Strategy
Marketing
Customer Relation/PR/Advertising
Human Resource Development
Operations
Maintenance



ANNEX 9
47 -                              Page Z
(b)  The organization should be business-oriented.
(c)  The cultural environment of the twin organization should be similar
to that of Fiji or, at least, the experience of this organization
should be culturally transferable.
(d)  The twin organization should be willing to participate and contribute
its experience.
(e)  The twin organization should also be willing to second one to three
persons who could fill posts in Fiji for at least one year in case of
major staffing gaps in P&T.
4.       Once a twin organization has been selected a detailed plan should be
compiled and agreed upon by the two organizations.  The plan will specify:
Areas of twinning;
Explicit objectives:
Schedule of visits of personnel from both sides and specific targets
for each trip;
Budget
Description of Services
5.       It i3 envisaged that the 'HOST" will provide technical cooperation
both in Fiji and in the "HOST's' country. A list of areas to be covered in
the program in the 'HOST" and "GUESTO countries as Tables 1 and 2. The
priority areas, list of participants and period of traininglassignment will be
finalized after joint discussions between the 'GUEST' and the "HOST". After
these discussions the "HOST' institution will prepare a comprehensive time-
phased action program with set priorities. For each recommended action, the
"HOST* will indicate the 'GUEST' and "HOST" institution's personnel needs
(number and specialities), material requirement, foreign and local cost
estimates and anticipated results. Work to be carried out in the "GUESTO
country and the "HOST" country would be specified. The mode of technical
assistance is envisaged as follows:
(a) Training in "Host' Country
6.       "GUEST" participants in the program will spend 3 to 6 months in the
"HOST" institution receiving "on-the-job' training. The program wculd be
designed not only to update the speciality knowledge of the concerned "GUEST"
participant but also to broaden his knowledge in other areas. For example, an
exchange maintenance engineer will be given assignments and hands-on training
in the exchange maintenance office of the "HOST" in order to deepen his skills
in his area of specialty.  However, to broaden his skills he would also be
given exposure to other areas such as cable maintenance, accounting and
finance, subscriber equipment maintenance, management and marketing.
7.       It is estimated that about ten 'GUEST" staff would participate in the
training program with a total of about 40 man-months of training. In the
'HOST' institution, a coordinator will be nominated to organize the program
for the visitor and to follow up his progress in the different assignments.



- 48 -                             ANNEX 9
Page 3
At the end of each assignment, the concerned 'HOST' manager will submit his
evaluation of the trainee's performance to the coordinator. The overall
performance evaluation of the trainee will be sent to the 'GUEST' management,
on completion of his training.
(b) Training in 'GUEST' Country
8.       Experts from the 'HOST' institution in selected areas will visit the
"GUEST" country on short assignments. During this period they will work with
counterpart 'GUEST" staff. Besides transfer of know-how through one-to-one
contact, they may also be asked to perrorm training, hold seminars, workshops,
etc., case studies being an important element. About five 'HOSTO staff are
expected to participate in the program for a total of about 10 man-months.
(c) Lending out Experts to 'GUEST' Country
9.       In the event the 'GUEST' country has the need for temporary expert
assistance to fill positions in the 'GUEST" institution, the OHOST'
institution will provide such required temporary assistance up to about 36
man-months.
Financial Arrangements
10.      P&T has requested a loan from the World Bank to finance part of the
investment program. The resources to finance the twinning arrangement, will
come from FET, and from the Bank. P&T will finance the salaries and other
social charges of the "GUEST' staff, normally in local currency. The Bank
will finance the foreign expenditures, namely travel costs, per-diem in the
'HOST' country of the 'GUEST' staff, the "HOST" charges for the coordination
and expenses, and the "HOST' staff, salary, travel costs and per-diem in the
'GUEST" country.
Implementation
11.      The 'HOST'institution would implement, with assistance from the
'GUEST", those actions, studies and training programs as specified in the
action program. The 'GUEST' and 'HOST' institutions would assign specific
working groups for each of the activities. The program should be carried out
over a three-year period. The 'HOST' would provide a senior manager to plan
the program and direct and supervise the activities. Joint evaluations of the
program would be carried out once a year. In addition reports on the
performance of the 'GUEST" trainees would be sent to the 'GUEST' management on
the completion of training of each participant. An accounting report will
also be sent monthly for settlement of payments.
Twinning Arrangement
(a) 'GUEST' to 'HOST' Indicative Program
lg.      The following table provides six typical examples of 'GUEST' staff.
Each area marked with an '*n is covered in the twinning program. The length
of the program in each area is tailored to the needs of the staff, with hands
on experience provided in areas of expertise.



ANNEX 9
-49 -                                  Page 4
able 1: GUEST TO HOST PROGRAM
'HOST'                                             'GUEST' staff
Staff                    M Inte-   Engineer-  Opera-    Training             Admini-
area                      nanco        Ing      tTono    Personnel  Finance stration
General Mananement
Corporate Planning                                                    e
Pereonnel Management        *                     a          0 *                *
Management Strategy                                          *        *         0
Marketing                   *          *                     a        a *
Custosr RelptionS      *         *    *                                          S
Human Resource Development   *         *          *          a         a        a
Financial Planning
Financial Projections       a          *          *                             0
Coat Accounting                                                       a a  a    a
Financial and MIS           a          *          *                             a
Tariff and Pricing
Policles                                                            *         a
Prourement                  *          a          *                   a
Computer Analytical
Models                    e                                         a
Technical Ar ea
Long Ditance
Operation                 *          *          *          a
Exchange Maintenance        *          e          a 
Cable Maintenance           *          1          a          a
Suberlber Eqpt
Maintenance               *                                a
Exchange Engineering        *          *          e
Cable Engineering           *          a
Nstwork Planning            *          a          a          a        o
Subecriber Technical
Planning                  a          a                               a
EDP                         *          *          *          *                  a
Trainino
Management Training         a          *          *          *        *         a
(b) 'HOSP" to "GUEST" Indicative Program
13.       The following list gives an example of possible areas of "HOST" to
GGUESTO technica' cooperation. The list can be modified as the *GUEST' staff
and management become acquainted with the needs that can be satisfied by using
the resources of the "HOST institutions.



ANNEX 9
- 50 -                             Page 5
Table 2: HOST TO GUEST PROGRAM
A. General Management
1. Corporate Planning
2. Personnel Management
3. Financial Planning
4. Management Strategy
5. Marketing - Basic
6. Marketing - Value Added Services
7. Customer Relation/PR/Advertising
8. Human Resource Development
B.  Financial/Accountin&/Computer + Systems
1. Financial Projections
2. Cost Accounting
3. Financial and MIS
4. Tariffs and Pricing Policies
5. Procurement
6. Computer Analytical-based Models
C. Administration
1. Administrative Procedures
2. Designing Reporting Systems
D. Engineering and Planning Areas
1. Network Planning
2. Demand Assessment and Forecasting
3. Traffic Planning
E. Operations and Maintenance Area
1. Network Management and Control
2. Subscriber Repair and Installation Management Control
3. Operator Scheduling and Control
4. Call completion measurement and control
5. Productivity Control
6. Quality of Service
F. Training
1. Management Training
2. In-house training
3. Case studies



ANNEX 9
- 51 -                              Page 6
B. Management Development Program
Background
14.      The Telecommunications Training Center (TTC), Fiji, is part of the
Posts and Telecommunications Department of Fiji. Its Principal is directly
responsible to the Permanent Secretary of the Department. Its operation is
overviewed by A Management Board appointed by the Minister for Works and
Communications oversees its operations. TTC also provides some training for
the telecommunications administrations in the Region. In the past, TTC has
been mainly technically oriented. Little emphasis has been placed on
management training and on marketing and customer relations. When P&T becomes
an independent organization, there will be a greater need for more middle- and
high-level management training as well as training in various commercial
fields. It is expected that TTC will retain an external organization prior to
and during the restructuring of P&T to help in designing courses in these
areas.
Management
15.      P&T's Management recognizes these needs, which will call for a change
in the management styles as well as in the attitude to commercialization, for
which reason management development in general is indispensable.
Obiectives
16.      The objectives of the general management development program ares
(a)  to promote change in P&T by reviewing the goals and objectives of and
formulating appropriate strategies for commercialization;
(b) to introduce and develop new procedures and commercial functions for
business development and ma.keting;
tc)  to upgrade the capabilities of individual managers through
development of better teaching managerial techniques;
(d)  to promote result-oriented management style throughout the
organization;
(e) to enhance the capabilities of the participating managers to solve
complex managerial problems through mutual cooperation;
L7.      The objectives of the middle-management training (middle-level
managers and section heads) ares
to introduce and clarify job related management skills, such as
leadership, communication, human relations, problem solving,
performance standards, customer service and motivation, which will
lead to better employee relations.



ANNEX 9
- 52 -                              Page 7
18.      The objectives of the high-level management training (directors and
department heads) ares
to help managers understand and update the main aspects of management
concepts that will lead to more effective management. To assist the
-'anagers to understand that planning and financial management are
ital management tools. The content of the training should include:
General management, marketing, finance, corporate strategy, Personnel
Management, Human resources development and Management strategy.
19.      The objectives for marketing and customer relations training are:
(selected middle managers and section heads with relation to marketing and
customer relation).
to create awareness and to understand the value of the marketing
functions and good customer relations. The key elements to be:
Marketing objectives. Marketing segmentation, Advertising, Public
relations, Marketing Planning, Performance measurement and control.
Methods of Delivery
20.      The program will be carried over a period of two years using
different teaching models. Emphasis should be placed on case studies and
should be very practical-oriented, focussing on the teleconmmunications sector.
The courses should be developed by training experts in cooperation with TTC.
Participation
21.      Middle- and high-level managers in P&T would participate in the
program. About 40 participants are expected to participate within the next
two years.
Scope
22.      The program should consist of some four instruction months a year
(eight for the two years).



- 53 -
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Posts and Telecommunications Department (PET)
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Project schedule             Standard Bank -rofile
IBRD fiscal year    Disbursement       Cumulative ZA      For all telecommunica-
Semester ending     per semester    through semester    tions projects in Asia
FY90
December 1989          0.5               0.5                     0.2
June 1990              0.8               1.3                     0.3
m1l
December 1990          0.8               2.1                     0.7
June 1991              0.8               2.9                     1.2
X2
December 1991          0.8               3.7                     1.8
June 1992              0.7               4.4                     2.6
FY93
December 1992          0.7               5.2                     3.3
June 1993              0.7               5.9                     4.2
FY94
December 1993          0.7               6.6                     4.7
June 1994              0.6               7.2                     6.1
Y95
December 1994          0.6               7.8                     6.9
June 1995              0.1               7.9                     7.8
FY96
December 1995          0.2               8.1                     8.1
La Disbursement profile based on the Bank profile period for all sectors in
Fiji. Disbursements were adjusted for the repayment of the PPF in 1989.



FUl
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (P & T)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
Schedule of Construction
Yewar        81989                          1iw0              1891                             1993             1994            1915
ouwe     1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1  2 3   4
A. EXCHANGES
igadEon                      11  _ V
cvr*aw
Noe: 1! 8 andl Inalalan  3z.pS
Group I                                            -       -        
Group 2                                                                         -k
GroupS                                                                                       -      -
Group4                                                                                                   -       -       -
S. TRANSMISSION EQtUIPMENT
Biddin and Evakalo
C. CABLE PLANT
Group2
BSking and Evakafon
Mamfeaain
Delvay aWM inaiklan
Group 2
Bidin aid Evakdmfo
Deft"i aid U%Waflfln
Group 3
U~~~~q aid Evakaflon ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~         ~        ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~II  -



55                                        ANNEX 12
THIRD TEEOMNCATIONS PROJECT
Posts and Teleommiunications Deoartment (P&TI
Pfa         md tIL
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Network
Exchange capacity, lines ('000)              55.9    59.0    60.9    63.6    64.9    69.0
Lines in service ('000)                      39.0    42.1    45.0    48.6    52.5    56.7
Rural public call offices                     179     193      207     221      235     249
Ouality of Service
Faults/line/year                              1.6     1.5      1.4     1.3      1.2     1.1
Faults cleared in less than 2 days (a)         42      44       46      48       50      52
Call completion rate (%) - national
(seize/answer ratio)                         64      67      70       72      74       76
&Maower
Total staff                                 1,300   1,330   1,360   1,400   1,440   1,480
Staff per 1,000 lines                        33.3    31.6    30.2    28.2    27.4    26.1
Training volume (%)                             7       7        7       7        7       7
Managerial training volume (%)                C.1     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1
Financial
Operating ratio                                72      73       72      72       73      72
Current ratio                                 1.5     1.7      2.0     1.9     1.7      1.8
Rate of return on net revalued fixed
assets                                       10      10       10      11      11       11
Debt service coverage                         4.0     3.2      3.1     2.7     2.8      2.5



- 56 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Posts and Telecommunications DeRartment (P&T)
Telecommunications Branch: Historical Income Statement
(F$'000)
Year to December 31              1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Operating Revenues
Telephone
Installation                   164      184     170     168      211     240
Rental                       1,555   2,197   2,297   2,425   2,582   2,788
Local(including STD)        11,463  13,062  11,800  12,506  12,395  12,738
International                    -        -   2,707   3,084   4,700   5,934
Leased circuit                 364      486     425     497      483     633
Other                          253     460      555     532      572     532
Total Telephone            13.792  16.389  17.955  19.212  20.942  22.864
:          Telex                             996   1,042   1,184   1,345   1,491   1,394
Other services                   597      896     913   1,076      880   1,021
Total Operating Revenues  15.392  18.327  20.052  21.633  23.313  25.280
Onerating ExDenses
Staff costs                    6,076   7,980   7,963   8,608   9,270   9,276
Other cash operating costs    2,630   3,179   2,813   3,627   3,744   4,861
Depreciation                   3,578   3,836   4,055   4,308   4,686   5,400
Total Ogerating Expenses  12.284  14.995  14.831  16.543  17.700  19.537
Income Before Interest      3108   3,.332   5.221   5.090   5.613   5.743
Less interest expense              974   1,193   1,279   1,417   1,509   1,725
Add interest income                277      397     779      934     699      208
Currency adjustment                402      517     463       65     135   1,462
Net Income                  2.009   2.019   4.258   4.542   4.668   2.764
Government contribution            586      600     602   1,620      926     926
Net Surplus                 J423   1.419   3.556   2.922   3.742   1.838



- 57 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2
EUI
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Posts and Telecommunications Department (P&T)
Telecommunications Branch: Historical Balance Sheet
(F$'000)
As of December 31                        1982     1983      1984     1985      1986     1987
Fixed Assets
Plant in service                      82,354   86,836   92,691  101,789  106,746  128,142
Less accumulated depreciation         27,709.  29,844   32,435   34,721   37,207   46,168
Net plant in service              54.644   56.992   60.256   67.067   69.539   81.974
Plant under construction               3,739    3,141    2,839    1,989    5,625    7,205
Total Net Fixed Assets            58.383   60.133   63.095   69.056   752164   89.179
Current Assets
Cash and banks                         2,872    5,946    7,608    8,086    4,616        731
Accounts receivable                    5,373    5,475    5,896    5,525    6,335    6,807
Inventories                            1,688    1,805    1,899    1,755    2,011    2,045
Other current assets                     198      257       372      412       219       70
Total Current Assets              10.132   13.482   15.775   15.778   13,181   92652
TOTAL  ASSETS                     68.515   73.615   78L870   84.834   88.345   98.831
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                        n.a.    5,207    4,533    6,479    4,092    4,401
Government contribution                 n.a.      600       602    1,620       926      926
Current portion of LT debt              n.a.    1,125    1,309    1,387    1,749    1,944
Customers' deposits                     n.a.      403       306      116       142      320
Total Current Liabilities           5.693    7.335    6.750    9.602    6.909    7.590
Long-term debt                          14,087   15,994   17,842   18,044   19,930   21,050
Other noncurrent liabilities               576      596       919    1,118    1,019    1,424
Total Liabilities                 20.356   23.926   25.511   28L764   2.7857   30.064
Equity
Government equity                    10,067   10,067   10,067   10,067   10,066   10,067
Equipment grants                       3,170    3,281    3,295    3,220    3,791    3,666
Asset revaluation reserve             23,763   23,763   23,763   23,763   23,763   30,060
Revenue reserve fund                 11,160   12,579   16,235   18,831   22,868   24,974
Total Equity                      48.159   49,689   53,359   55.880   60.488   68.767
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EOUITY        68515   73.615   78870   84.6i44   88.345  29.831



- 58 _
ANNEX 13
Page 3
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJCC
Posts and Telecommunicatigs Dnepartment (P&T)
Telecovmunications Branch: Historical Funds Flow
(F$'0OO)
Year to December 31                  1982     1983      1984      1985       1986      1987
SOURCES
Internal Cash
Net Income before interest      2,522    2,732    4,619      3,470     4,687      4,817
Depreciation                    3,578    3,836    4,055      4,308     4,686      5,400
Other adjustments                 330      400                   -          -     1,338
Total Internal Cash            6.100    6,568    8,674      7.778      9.373    11.555
Less debt service                 1,907    2.302    2.60A      2.766    3.196       3.850
Interest payments                 974    1,193    1,279      1,417     1,509      1,725
Amortization                      933    1,109    1,325      1,349      1,687     2,125
Net Internal Cash              4.193    _.6       6.069     5L012      6.lZ6     7.705
Total borrowings                    2,493    2,500    2,711      1,486      3,438     1,783
Other sources                         161        21      323       198       (99)       405
TOTAL SOURCES                  6.686    6_W6    8.i80       6.498      9.614     2.4-88
Investments                       7,248    5,358    6,900    10,211    10,071    13,118
Increase in working capital       (562)    1,408    1,880   (3,712)       (457)   (3,630)
TTAL USFS                      6.686    6i7       8.Z80     6.498      9.614     9.488



- 59  -                                                 ARM 1
Page I
TmD   TELEXO4URCATIONS PROJECTn
Posts  nd Teleocmunt ions Deoartment
Teiecommuniattena Branch: Pvro1eeted Inceme Statement
(F$'000)
Year to Decembet 31                     1988        1989       1990       1991       19          1993        1994
CPERASSSSO REVSSUE8
Telephone
Installation                           259.2       376.3      426.3      476.8      537.6      604.1        678.5
Rental                                3,383.9    3,805.5    4,315.6    4,84'.3   5,444.5    6,115.2       6,868.6
Local (iAc SSD)                     15,128.9   17,072.1   19,166.8   21,312.9   22,787.7   24,364.6    26,050.7
International                        7,488.3   8,611.6    9,903.3   11,388.8   13,097.1   15,061.7    17,320.9
Other Telephone                      1,191.2    1,250.8    1,313.3    1,379.0    1,447.9    1,520.3       1,596.3
Total Telephone                     27,451.5   31,116.2   35,125.3   39,406.7   43,315.0   47,665.9    52,515.0
TeleX                                1,252.0    1,180.6    1,117.4    1,061.6    1,008 5       958.1        910.2
Other services                       1,123.4    1,235.8    1,359.4    1,495.3    1,644.8    1,809.3       1,990.2
Total Revenues                      29,826.9   33,532.6   37,602.1   41,963.6   45,968.3   50,433.3    55,415.4
OPERATING EXPENSES
Staff Costs                          9,204.3   10,668.1   11,896.6   13,381.4   14,601.5   15,919.8    17,343.7
Other Operating costs                5,737.0    6,390.4    7,177.9    7,984.7   8,882.2    9,880.6    IU,991.2
Depreciation                         6,667.3    7,087.3    8,368.4    9,019.8    9,576.1   11,050.6    11,586.6
Operating Expanses                  21,608.6  24,145.8  27,442.9  30,386.0   33,059.8   36,850.9    39,921.5
NET OPERATING INOOME                 8,218.3    9,386.8  10,159.2  11,577.6  12,908.6  13,582.3    15,493.9
Interest expense                     1,625.3    1,632.2   3,106.7    3,566.4    3,896.3    4,094.9        4,107.9
NET INOMHE BEFORE TAX                6,593.0    7,754.6    7,052.5    8,011.2    9,012.3    9,487.4    11,386.0
Taxes                                    0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0    3,154.3    3,320.6      3,985.1
NET 380OHE                           6,593.0    7,754.6    7,052.5    8,011.2    5,858.0    6,166.8       7,400.9
Government contrLbutLon                 926.0    1,318.6    1,550.9    1,410.5    1,602.2    1,757.4      1,850.0
NET SURPLUS                          5,667.0    6,436.0    5,501.6    6,600.7    4,255.7    4,409.4       5,550.9
Operating Ratio                         72.41      72.01      73.0S      72.42      71.9X       73.1S       72.02



-60 -                                             me i2
WXA
Zoets at Tex a.maietions D.nartmemt
1ee2lznMiatciong Brabnht Zroai*ted SAIAnce Mheet
CF$000)
Year to December S1                  1986      1989      1990      1991      1992       1993       1994
PIXED AlSSE
Plant in sereic.                138,796.5 148,769.0 175,632.4 187,958.9 198,801.4 228,872.0  239,059.5
Las *ccUtulat*d depreciation     50,835.1  55,422.5  66,033.1  71,ss2.9  77,129.0  90,942.5   97,529.1
not plant In service             87,961.4  93,346.6 109,599.3 116,406.0 121,672.4 137,929.6  141,530.4
Plant =3d^r construction          5,450.0   7,022.5   8,264.0   7,562.5.  7,280.0   7,860.5    7,327.0
Total. net iimsd *aets           93.411.4  100,369.1 117,863.3  123,966.5 128,952.4 145,790.1  148,837.4
CURRENT ASSM%S
cash & Bank                       2,918.1   6,750.6  11,842.6  13,465.3  21,785.6  24,204.0   26,236.0
Accounts receivable               7,456.7   8,383.1   7,833.8   8,742.4   8,810.6   8,405.5    9,235.9
Inveiwories                       2,775.9   2,975.4   5,512.6   3,759.2   3,976.0   4,577.4    4,781.2
Uttal current "Ssets             13,150.7  18,109.1  23,189.0  27,966.9  34,S72.4  37,187.0   40,253.1
TOTAL ASSES                     106,56Z.1 118,478.2 141,052.3 151,93S5.3 163,524.8 182,977.0  189,110.5
_owxmsat Cantributitn               926.0   1,316.6   1,530.9   1,410.5   4,756.5   5,078.0    5,835.2
Current Portion of LT Debt        2,483.4   2,715.0   3,051.4   3,219.4   3,326.1   5,155.4    4,495.3
Other current liabilities         5,551.9   5,950.8   7,025.3   7,518.4   7,952.1   9,154.9    9,562.4
total current liabilities         8,961.3   9,984.4  11,627.6  12,148.3  16,234.2  19,386.3   19,892.8
Not Lon4-tan Debt                22,066.6  26,413.6  32,387.3  36,015.9  39,116.6  38,677.7   38,578.6
Otber Noncurrent Liabilities      1,100.0   1,210.0   1,331.0   1,46.1   1,610.5   1,771.6    1,948.7
TOtML LRlIus                     32,127.9  37,608.0  45,345.9  49,628.3  56,962.0  59,637.5   60,420.2
Etpmt
ot Equity                       10,0Q6.5  10,066.5  10,066.3  10,066.5  10,066.5  10,066.5   10,066.S
gEot rat                         S3,666.4   3,646.4   3,666.4   3,666.4   3,666.4   3,666.4    3,666.4
asset Rev Resrve                 30,059.9  30,059.9  39,394.6  39,394.6  39,394.6  51,561.8   51,561.8
Retained z.rlo                   30,641.4  37,077.4  42,579.0  49,179.6  53,435.4  S7,844.8   63,395.7
TOML WQlUT                       74,434.2  80,870.2  95,706.4 102,$07.1 106,562.8 123,139.5  128,690.4
LABUJTINS * EaQu1TY             106,562.1 116,478.2 141,052.3 151,935.3  163,524.8 182,977.0  189,110.5



- 61 -
PI=
MMDRD SIECMUNCATIMS PROJEC
Zi&s~ end TeleogMnunigtions Degaremtnt
Selecommuntcatlona_Rrnch: Projected Funds Flow
(F$8000)
Year to December 31                     19S8        1989       1990       1991       1992       1993         1994
SOURCES:
INTERNAL C(ASt
Net Incoma  before lnterest          8,218.3    9,386.8   10,159.2   11,577.6    9,754.3   10,261.7    11,508.8
Depreciation                         6,667.3    7,087.3    8,368.4    9,019.8    9,576.1   11,050.6    11,586.6
Other Adjustc.nta                        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0          0.0
Total internal Cash                 14,885.6   16,474.1   18,527.6   20,597.4   19,330.3   21,312.3    23,095.4
Less Debt Service                    3,568.9    4,115.6    5,821.7    6,617.8    7,115.7    7,621.0       9,263.3
-Interest Payments                  1,625.3    1,632.2    3,106.7    3,566.4    3,896.3    4,094.9      4,107.9
-Amortisation                       1,943.6    2,483.4    2,715.0    3,051.4    3,219.4    3,526.1      5,155.4
net Internal Cash                   11,316.8  12,358.5  12,705.9  13,979.6   12,214.6   13,691.3    13,832.2
Total Borrovings                     3,500.0    7,062.0    9,025.1    6,848.0    6,627.0    4,716.3       4,396.2
Other Noncurrent Liab                  100.0       110.0      121.0      133.1      146.4      161.1        177.2
TOTAL SOURCES                       14,916.8   19,530.5   21,852.0   20,960.7   16,988.0   18,546.7    18,405.5
USES8
Investments                         10,900.0  14,045.0  16,528.0   13,125.0   14,560.0  15,721.0    14,654.0
GoverTmnt Contribution                 926.0    1,318.6    1,550.9    1,410.5    1,602.2    1,757.4       1,850.0
Inc ln Working Capital               3,090.8    4,166.9    3,773.1    4,425.2    2,825.8    1,090.3       1,901.5
TOTAL USES                          14,916.8   19,530.5  21,852.0   20,960.7  18,988.0  18,568.7    18,405.5



- 62 -                                    PageI
FMJ
TH1nw TELEOOMMNCATIORs PRJFCT
Posts and Telecommznications Denartment
Telecommuntcations Branch: Assumntions for Financial Projections
(1$' 000)
Year to December 31                       1988     1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994
Income Seatement
Number of DELs
-Year end                               36.1      39.0     42.1      45.0     48.6     52.5      56.7
-Average                                35.0      37.5     40.5      43.8     47.3     51.1      55.2
Average connection Fee (F$)              124.0    130.2    136.7    142.2    147.9    153.8    159.9
Average RentalIDEL (F$)                   96.6    101.4    106.5    110.7    115.1    119.7    124.5
Domeatic Traffic (mln unlts)             197.3
Revenuel unit                            0.085    0.085    0.089    0.093    0.093    0.093    0.093
Up.its/DEL                            5,405.0  5,351.0  5,297.4  5,244.5  5,192.0  3,140.1  5,088.7
DomestLe Revenue/DEL (F$)                431.7    454.8    472.8    486.0    481.9    477.1    s72.3
International Outgoing
Traffic (mln units)                       5.84     6.72     7.72      8.88    10.21    11.75    13.51
Revenue/Unlt-fiji                        1.437    1.437    1.437    1.437    1.437    1.437    1.467
P&T Z                                     0.34     0.34     0.34      0.34     0.34      0.34     0.34
PST International Revenues (outgoing)   2.85       3.28     3.77      4.34     4.99      5.74     6.60
International Incoming
Traffic( mln units)                     12.54    14.42    16.58    19.06    21.92    25.21    28.99
Revenue/Unit                             1.245    1.245    1.245    1.245    1.245    1.245    1.245
P&T X                                     0.30     0.30     0.30      0.30     0.30      0.3C     0.30
P&T International Revenxws (incoming    4.64       5.33     6.13      7.05     8.11      9.32    10.72
Other Telephone Revenues (F$C000)    1,191.2  1,250.8  1,323.3  1,379.0  1,447.9  1,520.3  1,596.3
Number of Telex Lines
-Year end                              675.r,   670.0    670.0    670.0    670.0    670.0    670.0
-Average                               677.5    672.5    670.0    670.0    670.0    670.0    670.0
Telex Revenue/line                    1,848.0  1,755.6  1,667.8  1,584.4  1,505.2  1,429.9  1,358.4
Telegraph and Misc                    1,123.4  1,235.8  1,359.4  1,495.3  1,644.8  1,809.3  1,990.2
Inflation Rate (X)                       12.0       5.0      5.n       4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0
Exchange Rate                            0.690    0.690    0.690    0.690    0.690    0.690    0.690
Number of staff                       1,245.0  1,300.0  1,330.0  1,360.0  1,400.0  1,440.0  1,48O.O
Staff/1000 DEL                            34.5     33.4     31.6      29.9     28.5      27.2     25.8
Cost/Staff (FS)                       7,393.0  8,206.2  8,944.8  9,839.3 10,429.6 11,055.4 11,71R.7
Other cash operatlng
CoststDEL (PS)                           163.7    170.3    177.1    182.4    187.8    193.5    199.3
Depreciation (Z of gross
fixed assets)                           5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0



-63 -                                       Page 2
Year to December 31                      1988     1989      1983     1991     1992      1993     1994
Balance SheetlFuvad flow
9r               Cash and Bank (months cash op)            2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0
Accounts Receivable
(montbso  revenues)                     3.0      3.0      2.5       2.5      2.3      2.0       2.0
!Iventories (X of gross
flxed assets)                           2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0
Government Contrlbution
(I annualu contrlbutlon)               1001     100X     1002      1002     1001     1001      1001
Other Current Liabililtles                 41       41        4X       42       4X        4X       4X
(1 gross flied assets)
nveatmaenta                          10,900.0 14,045.0 16,528.0 15,125.0 14,560.0 15,721.0 14,654.0
Write-off of Fixed Assets             2,000.0  2,500.0  3,000.0  3,500.0  4,000.0  4,500.0  5,000.0
Other Noncurrent LiabilitLes          1,100.0  1,210.0  1,331.0  1,464.1  1,610.5  1,771.6  1,948.7
Revaluation of AssetslAsset Reserve      0.01     0.01    10 .01     0.01     0.0     10.0X      O.OX
Debt Schedule
IBR Loan 833
Openung Balance                         1,309    1,053       775      482      164         0        0
Additions during the year                   0
Amortized durlng the year                 256      278       292      318      164         0        0
Exchange Adjustments                      000
CLJS;ng Balance                         1,053      775       482      164        0         0        0
L|8.ss Current Portion                    278      292       318      164        0         0        0
'Pet Loug Term Debt                       775      482       164        0        0         0        0
Interest Paid                              86       66       46        23        6        0         0
|IL2em -h0
Opening Balace                          4,689    4,221    3,709    3.155    2.550    1.894    1.181
Additinas during the year
Amorti2e4 during the year                 468      511       555    0.605    0.655    0.713    0.778
Exchange Adjustments
Closing Balane                          4,221    3,709    3,155    2,550    1,894    1,181        403
Less Curreant Portion                     511      555       605      655      713      778       403
t              Net Long Term Debt                       3,709    3,155    2,550    1,894    1,181       403         0
Interest Paid                             360      340      290       240      190      130        70
Proned Thirtd Loan
Opening Balance                             0        0       748    4,543    7,015    9,187   11,396
Additions during the year update            0)     748    3,795    2,472    2,172    2,209          0
Amortlted during the year                   0        0         0        0        0        0       234
Exchange Adjustments                        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Closing Balance                                    748    4,543    7,015    9.187   11,396   11,162
Less Current Portlon                                 0         0        0        0      234         0
Not Long Tsxm Debt                                 748    4,543    7,015    9,187   11,162   11,162
Interest Paid                                       30      210       400      6S0      820       900



- 64 - 
Page 3
Year to December 31                       1988     1969      1990     1991     1992      1993     1994
Balance SheetflAmft flowJ
Other Loans Total excluding Bank
Opening Balance                         16,996   19,277   23,897   27,259   29,507   31,562   31,256
Addltiens during the year                3,500    6,314    5,230    4,376    4,455    2,507    4,396
AmortLzed during the year                1,219    1,694    1,868    2,128    2,400    2,813    4,143
E'.cbmnge Adjustments
Closing Balance                         19,277   23,897   27,259   29,507   31,562   31,256   31,509
Less Current Portlon                     1,694    1,868    2,128    2,400    2,813    4,143    4,092
Net Long Term Debt                      17,583   22,029   25,131   27,107   28,749   27,3_3   27,417
Interest Pald                            1,160    1,200    2,560    2.8403   3,050    3,140    3,140
Total
Opening Balance                         2 d94   24,550   29,129   35,439   39,295   42,643   43,833
Addltions during the year                3,500    7,062    9,025    6,848    6,627    4,716    4,396
Amortized during the year                1,944    2,483    2,715    3,051    3,219    3,526    5,155
Erchange Adjustments                         0        0         0        0         0        0        0
Closing Balance                         24,550   29,129   35,439   39,235   42,543   43,833   43,074
Less Current Portlon                     2,483    2,715    3,051    3,219    3,526    5,155    4,495
Net Long Term Debt                      22,067   26,414   32,387   36,016   39,117   38,678   38,579
Interest Paid                            1,625    1,632    3,107    3,566    3,896    4,09j    4,108



- 65 -
THIRD TELECOMML'NICATIONS PROJECT
p.
Posts and Telecommunications DeDartinent (P&T)
Summary of Telecommunications Tarifi
(F
1987                   1988
TeleDhone Tariffs
Connection Fee
DEL                                            60                     65
PBX La
Manual                                  50-180                  56-206
Electromechanical                      150-600                 172-680
Electronic                             200-300                  60-400
Annual Rentals
Ordinary direct line
Business                                    48                      54
Residential                                  39                     45
PBX .La
Manual                                   72-360                 81-414
Automatic                            108-1,980               708-2,178
Electronic                         1,080-2,340               204-3,192
Local call (flat rate)                      0.07                    0.08
Long distance; per minute              0.09-0.35             0.11-0.40Lt
International; 3 minuteo              4.80-13.50              4.80-13.50
Leased Circuits
Connection fee                                 30                     65
Rental                                        48                      54
II12I
Connection fee                                   70                     80
Annual rental                                   840              840-1,068
Call charge, 'cr minute
Local                                       0.05                    0.05
Long distance                          0.09-0.28               0.11-0.32
 Charges vary with the number of exchange lines and extensions.
 Fifty percent reduction for off-peak calls.



- 66 -                           ANNEX 17
Page 1
FIJI
THIRD TELECOMKUNICATIONS PROJECT
Posts and Telecommunications Department (P&T)
Return on Investment
1.       The proposed project comprises P&T's total telecommunications
investment program over the period 1990 to 1994. The benefit period of the
project extends from 1990 tc 2014 when, on average, all the equipment provided
under the project would have completed its useful life. Benefits attributed
to the project include expected revenues from new telephone subscribers and
increased telephone revenue from existing subscribers as a result of the
project. Operating costs attributed to the project are the incremental costs
incurred in providing service to incremental subscribers valued at average
operating cost per subscriber less the operating cost savinge realized on
existing lines with modernization of the network.
2.       A summary of the program's incremental costs and benefits is given in
Table 1 below. From 1995 onwards, costs and benefits associated with the
1990-93 investment program are assumed to remain constant in real terms. All
incremental costs and revenues have been deflated to bring them to their
comparable 1988 price levels. No residual value of assets has been taken into
account as the present value of these in real terms would be minimal.
Table 1: INCRFMENTAL COSTS AND BENEFITS
(F$'000)
Fiscal                      Capital        Total       Total       Net benefit
year        Deflator     expenditure      costs      benefits       stream
1988          1.00              0             0            0              0
1989          1.05            712           712            0           -712
1990          1.10         14,991        15,653        2,908        -12,274
1991          1.15         13,190        15,141        6,868         -8,274
1992          1.19         12,210        1',369       10,202         -5,166
1993          1.24         12,676        i.7,007      13,844         -3,161
1994          1.29          4,470         9,557       16,584          7,027
1995-2014       1.34              0         5,088       16,206         11,118
The internal rate of return based on the above is 22% which is satisfactory.
Economic Rate of Return
3.       The internal rate of return, calculated on the basis of financial
flows, understates the benefits to be derived from the telecommunications
investment program as it does not take into account consumer surplus and the



- 67 -                             AM=  17
Page 2
external benefits which accure to the economy as a whole as a result of
improved telecommunications services and can be considered a minimum estimate
of the economic rate of return.
3.1      The results of a sensitivity analysis made of the project's internal
rate of return is summarized below:
ERR (%)
(a) 20% increase in investment costs               18.1
(b) 20% increase in operating costs                20.2
(c) 20% reduction in operating revenues            16.1
(d) Combination of (a), (b) and (c)                10.6
(e) Two-year delay in benefits                     13.5



ANNEX 18
- 68 -
FIJI
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Posts and Telecommunications Department (P&T)
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.  Outside Plant Planning of Fiji ITU, Suva, M. J. Glover, May 1988.
2. Tender for the Supply of Digital Telephone Switching - P&T, Suva.
3. Telecommunications Sector Policy Paper.
4. Draft Telecommunications and Postal Act.
5. Department of Post and Telecomimmications. Annual Reports 1983-87.



ERDUEJEUIA                                        ____o r                     R700                                        lirE                                                W30-                                             17fW                                              I173w
-PAUA NEW GUINEA                                              10                                                 NE ClKB3A
|   S   SO! NAON ISLANDS  SAOA       I23                     12'30.                                                                                                                                             FIJI
WESTEA5RNs             \                                                                                                                             THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
VANUATU         AMERICAN
FIJI    -AAAU  S                                                                                                                                                    DEPARTMENT OF POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
NEW CALEDONIA      TONGA           ...                                                                                                                                                 eSlNG    PR0PGSED
|   1 734E VE                                                                                                                                                                MiEtrwove Link
AUSTRAlIA                                                      |                \                                                                                           @                                             ____    ____UVHF or UHF Link
| TEAn........    .......   T-k Cable
5Nd-er                                                                                                  \A...... E3WoLn                                                                                                        ikoo ReFp30,, lStoionr
SEUnoR                                                             S\                                                              MW R.R                                                                    0           0       TE:Telephone Exchanges (AAIIWRIpu   Mona.l)
\                                                      0ip'9Laaa.a                                                                     *YVHF ar HF Rodio TI.eph-RR
-   A_A_    D_                                                          *         VANUA         LEVU                                                                                                InnotiOrIo BouAdERS    -
17.7-E ~ ~ ~         ~       ~        ~       ~        ~      ~              c     ^ 5......o.or                              D.I.
\     0 _                                                                   0 U U              RU      10'
NASA lIA                                         rAO                                                   V             -           L,                                         FSkRtOM6ERES
NACALA
Ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
,/,,Rc       -a                    I         -       /A                               ,    ,
\A VI- , ,a ro        . r<e  |  /
*   \   \e \ \    X   //    *     * I                        /\
@ -.ozn NQd e | SVAEUIE                      a                /    rUWA
/S />d  /                                                                                                                            aE Ouo dCEo   S   I  *  Ss   //   \
/   *    /   virl  LEVU->,      \  I   /    /                         \                                                                                                  \*/  / 
-IS                           e     X    St    0   \Deloiko NArAU \~~~~~~~~~~~~-I 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ln .m                             I |  V S                      \II
5.9o1ok      i   e                  S e                                                \                                                                                         bKesuI  U
_~~~~~~~~*   &< SUVNAI__  Ao
D~ ~ ~~~~AaE gaol;ac                                                                                                           NF
U.Aaca                 tAAU-                                              \                                                                                           UIN
dEoA   1:Vvssdo  roKorozN    <            N             \                                                        @                                 @ONEAMARiA
*RI                                                       lIVfL      , / / E |                                 IS M G A L A                                         /
Un~~<                                                                   25        ///MC



