 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14791

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 08/28/2015

              Country: Nepal
            Project ID: P090967                                                  Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Second Higher                Project Costs (US$M):                    79.6                 80.96
                        Education Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                     60.0                  63.9
      Sector Board:        Education                 Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                              02/22/2007
                                                                Closing Date:         01/15/2014          06/30/2014
         Sector(s):        Tertiary education (67%); Secondary education (21%); Other social services (6%); Central
                           government administration (6%)
         Theme(s):         Education for the knowledge economy (40%); Rural services and infrastructure (20%);
                           Education for all (20%); Social safety nets (20%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Ann Elizabeth Flanagan Judyth L. Twigg            Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    Original Objectives:

    The objectives as stated in the original Financing Agreement (April 2007) were to: (a) enhance the quality and
    relevance of higher education and research through a set of incentives for promoting effective management and
    financial sustainability of academic institutions; and (b) improve access for academically qualified
    under-privileged students, including girls, dalits and educationally disadvantaged janajati, to higher education
    through financial assistance and enhanced capacity of higher secondary schools (p. 4).

    The objectives as stated in the PAD (January 2007, p. 5) were identical to those of the Financing Agreement.

    Revised Objectives:

    The objectives as stated in the revised Financing Agreement (April 2011) were to: (a) enhance the quality,
    efficiency, and relevance of higher education through a set of systemic reforms and incentives to selected
    institutions; and (b) improve access for academically qualified students from disadvantaged groups in higher
    education and higher secondary education (p. 8).

    The objectives in the Restructuring Paper (February 2011, p. 5) were identical to those of the revised Financing
    Agreement.

    At restructuring, an efficiency objective was introduced and the research objective was dropped. Given these
    changes to the project's statement of objectives, a split rating will be performed.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
Date of Board Approval: 02/08/2011

c. Components:

   Original Components:

   Component 1: Reform Grants (Appraisal, US$ 56.7 million; Actual US$ 55.24 million), This component had two
   subcomponents:

       To provide reform grants to academic institutions committed to project reforms. Incentives grants would be
        awarded to decentralized campuses becoming autonomous and to small universities accepting
        formula-based funding linked to outputs; performance grants would be awarded on progress toward project
        reforms; and matching grants would be granted for physical development of academic institutions (e.g.
        facilities and faculty).

       To provide competitive research funding to improve faculty and student research and the global standing of
        Nepalese academic institutions. Funding for research management capacity, conference attendance,
        research facilities, training in research methodology, and matching funds for sponsored research was
        included. A Research Council was to be established to oversee research funding.

   Component 2. Student Financial Assistance (Appraisal, US$ 4 million; Actual US$ 4.2 million)

       This component supported the establishment of an autonomous Student Financial Assistance Fund
        Development Board (SFAFDB) to provide academically qualified but disadvantaged students (with emphasis
        on excluded groups among the poor such as ethnic, caste, and gender-based excluded groups) the financial
        means to attend higher secondary and higher education (e.g., living expenses, tuition and fees,
        transportation costs, and the costs of learning materials).

   Component 3. Higher Secondary Education (Appraisal US$16 million; Actual US$18.4 million)

       This component would award basic grants to higher secondary schools based on the number of graduates
        and certain accountability requirements in order to improve the quality of higher secondary education and, in
        turn, access to higher education, especially for rural students.

   Component 4. Strengthening System Capacity (Appraisal US$3 million; Actual US$3.12 million)This component
   had two subcomponents:

       To establish a Quality Assurance and Accreditation (QAA) System (both program- and institution-based) and
        fund communication costs, grants for participating institutions, operating costs, technical assistance, study
        tours workshops, and seminars.

       To support monitoring and evaluation through operationalizing of a computerized Education Management
        Information System for the higher education (HEMIS) sub-sector, along with training, purchasing of
        equipment, and operating costs.

   Revised Components:

   Component 1: Reform Grants. This component was revised to comprise three sub-components:

       University Grants Commission (UGC) Reform Grants. Prior to restructuring, UGC was responsible for
        implementing all activities related to higher education. At restructuring, the responsibility for implementing
        reform grants in Tribhuvan University (TU) institutes and constituent campuses was given to TU. UGC was
        responsible for implementing reform grants in small universities and community colleges.

       Advancing Research in Higher Education. Efforts to enhance research capacity were refocused to areas of
        national priority. Performance-based monitoring was adopted to improve the allocation of research grants.
       Tribhuvan University (TU) Reform Grants. A new activity under the reform grants subcomponent supported
        priority (i.e., math, science, engineering, medicine, agriculture, and other growth oriented disciplines)
        academic programs (both Bachelor and Master’s level) in decentralized and autonomous campuses.

   Component 2: Student Financial Assistance
        Student equity contributions to the Student Loan Scheme were dropped. The role of the Administrator of the
         SFAFDB was limited to grant management from a broader set of program activities; the SFAFDB was
         tasked with engaging and directly supervising management of student selection and monitoring.

   Component 3: Higher Secondary Education

        Higher Secondary schools with science streams were given priority in the allocation of performance grants
         and the number of schools receiving grants was increased from 200 to 250.

   Component 4: Strengthening System Capacity

        Monitoring of TU Project Implementation Unit added. The component also supported formulation of a
         National Higher Education Policy, development of institutional autonomy packages for TU decentralized
         campuses, and an academic calendar for TU.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Costs:
     Total project costs at approval were US$ 79.6 million, of which US$ 60 million was to be financed through an
        IDA grant, US$ 19.4 million through community matching funds, and US$ 0.3 million by the Government of
        Nepal.
     Actual disbursements were US$ 79.3 million (4% lower than at appraisal); IDA disbursements of US$ 63.9
        million were 6% higher than appraised costs.
     Community matching funds were 12% lower than expected at US$ 17 million.

   Financing:
      The project was funded through an IDA grant of US$ 63.9 million and community matching funds of US$
       19.4 million.
      Concurrent with project financing, Nepal received US$ 1.9 million in grant financing through the Japan Social
       Development Fund for a Pro-poor Targeted Secondary School Stipend project.

   Borrower Contribution :
     At appraisal the Borrower was expected to contribute US$ 0.3 million to the project. Actual Borrower
       contribution was US$ 0.3 million at project completion.

   Dates:
     The Financing Agreement was modified on October 28, 2008 to allow disbursement of project funds for
       student financial aid without the stipulation that an Administrator be appointed for the Student Financial Aid
       Fund Development Board (SFAFDB); to modify dates; and to allow National Competitive Bidding provided
       under the 2007 Public Procurement Act (Financing Agreement, 2008, pp. 1-2).
     The project was formally restructured on February 8, 2011 at which point 36% of the IDA grant had been
       disbursed; project development outcomes, key performance targets, and implementation arrangements were
       modified (Restructuring Paper, 2011, p. 1). Project implementation was delayed due to political instability,
       slow release of funds, unfilled vacancies in key positions, and difficulties in establishing critical project
       features, e.g., new mechanisms for accreditation, performance-based competitive funding of research, and
       poverty targeting for student scholarships (ICR, p. 7).
     Reallocation of funds between expenditure categories was approved in June of 2013 (ICR, p. 6).
     In September 2013, the project closing date was extended by approximately six months from January 15,
       2014 to June 30, 2014 to complete project activities (with an approved reallocation of funds) prior to
       effectiveness of the follow-on Higher Education Reforms Project.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Relevance of the original objectives is rated Substantial.

   The project's objectives were fully aligned with the development priorities and key challenges in the higher
   education sector. The current system of higher education was not producing graduates with the skills required for
   economic growth (88% of higher education students studied education, management, law, humanities and social
   sciences) and was not contributing to social inclusion (poor access for students from under-privileged
   households). The system was inefficient and financially unsustainable.

   Nepal's economic growth was stable but low at approximately 3% per year between 2000 and 2009. The project
   supported reforms to enhance the quality and relevance of higher education and research as a means to
   enhance economic growth and global competitiveness. The project's original objectives were relevant to the
   Government's Tenth Plan (2002-2007) to improve broad-based economic growth, social sector development,
   social inclusion, and good governance. The Plan highlighted the need to enhance the skills of Nepal’s labor force
   through higher education, focusing on increased investments in the sub-sector, greater autonomy for academic
   institutions, and financial assistance for meritorious and poor students (Tenth Plan, p. 9). At project closure the
   project remained relevant to Nepal's continued focus on employment-centric economic growth, promotion of job
   opportunities, and equitable delivery of social services (Government of Nepal, 2010).

   At approval, the project was also closely aligned with the Bank’s strategy to support broad-based economic
   growth, social sector development, and good governance; social sector development included a target of
   financial sustainability for institutes of higher education (CAS, 2003). During political transition the Bank was
   more selective in its engagement in Nepal, focusing on protecting reforms, social inclusion, and a post-conflict
   growth plan (ISN 2007, 2009). At project closing, the project remained relevant to the Bank’s strategy in Nepal,
   with the Bank shifting its emphasis away from basic and primary education toward higher education, in particular
   more equitable access to education and development of higher quality and more relevant skills (ISN, 2011; CPE,
   2014).

   However, the project objective was ambitious given the political instability in Nepal at the time of project approval
   (which continued throughout implementation).

   Relevance of the revised objectives is rated Substantial.

   The project's revised objectives were and remain substantially relevant to the priorities laid out in Government
   and World Bank strategy documents (see above). Dropping research from the project's objectives was a minor
   shortcoming, as research can contribute to spurring innovation, competitiveness, and economic growth. The
   revised objective continued to support improvements in the efficiency of Nepal's higher education system through
   decentralization reforms. The objective remained ambitious given the country context.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Relevance of the project’s original design is rated Modest. Project design relied on a theoretical link between
   project-supported reforms (e.g., autonomy, decentralization, and performance-based funding) and intended
   outcomes. Project activities did not directly address the relevance of higher education or research, for example,
   through targeted support based on market needs to areas identified as critical to promote economic growth. An
   internal Quality Enhancement Review (2005) determined that the project was complex and would be hard to
   implement given the political instability that followed the end of conflict in 2006. The review called for significant
   simplification of project design (ICR, p. 6), in particular the use of financial incentives to initiate reforms. The
   capacity required to implement the ambitious reform strategy was underestimated as were the risks associated
   with resistance to reform. Also, the original design included activities supporting financial assistance to students
   at the higher secondary level that were not aligned with the project's intended outcomes.

   Relevance of the project's revised design is also rated Modest. Project design remained ambitious; intended
   outcomes continued to rely on reforms initiated through financial incentives to institutions. A stronger results
   chain was presented for the objective of improving the relevance of higher education through targeted activities to
   improve employability of graduates; however, the results chain for the efficiency objective was not fully
   articulated. Improving the quality and relevance of research was dropped as a project objective at restructuring,
   yet revised project design refocused project activities to better align activities to the original research objective. At
   restructuring, a clearer delineation of functions was established between project activities and the implementing
   agency.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Enhance the quality of higher education (original and revised objective ) is rated Modest.

   Outputs:
     Four (4) decentralized Tribhuvan University campuses (4) granted autonomy, exceeding the revised target
     of three (3)
    11 additional decentralized Tribhuvan University campuses supported, increasing the total number from 38
     to 49, exceeding the revised target of 45 campuses
    9 autonomy packages developed for decentralized Tribhuvan University campuses, meeting the target of 10
     campuses
    89 community campuses received project support, meeting the revised target of 90 campuses
    Higher education policy developed but not adopted as targeted
    Functional Quality Assurance and Accreditation System in place, target achieved
    Academic calendar established and fully operational for Tribhuvan University, but only 57% of programs
     following academic calendar falling short of target
    The ICR also reports that over 80% of procurement, estimated at about US$40 million, was spent on
     rehabilitation and expansion of existing buildings and other infrastructure, while only nine percent of funds
     were allocated for laboratory equipment, books, learning materials, computers, etc., which more directly
     benefit students (ICR, p. 9).

Outcomes:
  Cost sharing level of participating campuses. This outcome measure was dropped at restructuring;
    however, the ICR reports that the cost sharing rate of supported institutions exceeded the 30% target.
  29.3% pass rate at the Bachelor’s degree level at participating institutions, falling short of the 36% target
  24.8% pass rate at the Master’s degree level at participating institutions, not meeting the 26% target
  12 institutions accredited, exceeding the target of six institutions
  29 publications in refereed journals by research grant recipients, exceeding the targeted 20 publications.



Enhance the relevance of higher education (original and revised objective ) is rated Substantial .

Outputs (in addition to outputs cited earlier).
  28 new programs in science, technology, management, and other employment/economic development
    focused programs offered at participating institutions, exceeding the targeted 20 new programs

Outcomes:
  Number of higher education institutions tracking employability of graduates. Although the outcome measure
    was dropped at restructuring, the ICR reported that more than 50 institutions were tracking the employability
    of graduates through tracer studies, exceeding the target of 15. No information on employment was
    provided.
  38.4% of students enrolled at participating institutions enrolled in science, technology, management, and
    other employment/economic development focused programs, substantially meeting the 39% target

Enhance the quality and relevance of research (original objective) is rated Substantial .

Outputs:
  303 Master’s degree dissertations awarded, exceeding the target of 300
  80 PhD scholars supported, meeting the target
  303 individual research grants faculty members provided, meeting the target of 300
  41 institutional research grants provided, meeting the target
  No information on the grading of dissertations or the number of faculty promotions based on research
    achievements was provided.
  No outputs were defined or reported on the relevance of research,

Outcomes:
  29 publications in refereed journals by research grant recipients, exceeding the targeted 20 publications.



Enhance the efficiency of higher education (revised objective) is rated Modest.

Outputs:
  Outputs cited above are relevant to this objective.

Outcomes:
  29.3% pass rate at the Bachelor’s degree level at participating institutions, falling short of the 36% target
  24.8% pass rate at the Master’s degree level at participating institutions, not meeting the 26% target
  Pass rates are an imperfect measure of efficiency, especially when the rate is calculated as the proportion of
    students from all years who passed the exams out of all students who registered for the exams. No other
        information on efficiency of higher education is provided.

    Improve access for academically qualified students from disadvantaged groups in higher education (original
    and revised objective ) is rated Substantial .

    Outputs:
      89 community campuses received project support, meeting the revised target of 90 campuses
      7,192 students received financial assistance from SFAFDB at the higher education (tertiary) level, exceeding
        the targeted 3,500 students

    Outcomes:
      93,690 students educated in higher education (tertiary), of which 45.6% were girls and 16.7% were Dalits
        and educational disadvantaged Janajati, exceeding the revised targets of 35% and 10%, and the revised
        targets of 44% and 13.5%, respectively.

    Improve access for academically qualified students from disadvantaged groups in higher secondary education
    (revised objective) is rated Substantial .

    Outputs:
      944 community Higher Secondary Schools (CHSS) received project grants, exceeding the project target of
        470
      7,391 students received financial assistance from SFAFDB at the higher secondary education level,
        exceeding the targeted 4,300 students

    Outcomes:
      210,100 students educated in higher secondary education, of which more than 50% were girls and 6.2%
        were Dalits, meeting or exceeding the original targets of 43% and 5%, and the revised targets of 50% and
        7%, respectively. No enrollment information on disadvantaged Janajati was reported.

5. Efficiency:

    Cost-benefit analyses were conducted ex ante and ex post. Ex-ante and ex-post estimates accounted for both
    direct and indirect costs: total project costs, private costs of education (e.g., tuition and fees), and opportunity
    costs. Ex ante benefits were limited to a 10% increase in wages relative to non-project beneficiaries. There
    appears to be no assumption regarding benefits from educational attainment versus increases in skills. Net
    Present Value (NPV) ex ante was calculated to be US$ 284 million, with an Internal Rate of Return (IRR) equal to
    11.8%.

    Ex post estimates were based on actual data and generally credible assumptions. The ex post estimates
    consider two sources of benefits from the project: (i) the higher number of graduates with advanced degrees
    (relative to non-graduates), and (ii) the wage premium from an increase in the quality of higher education.
    Baseline assumptions returned an estimated IRR of 35% and an NPV of US$ 237 million. Sensitivity analyses
    for NPV and IRR were conducted based on changes in the discount rate (baseline 10%) and wage premium
    (base case 3.5%). The calculations suggest that the NPV and IRR are highly dependent on the assumed wage
    premium related to improvement in the quality of higher education. Small changes (0.5 percentage points) result
    in a wide range in NPV from US$ 21 million to US$ 476 million, whereas there project achieved only modest
    attainment of this objective.

    NPV ex post is lower than at appraisal, in part due to higher project costs (US$ 4 million due to exchange rate
    fluctuations). The IRR is significantly higher than at appraisal due to the larger than expected number of project
    beneficiaries. For example, the number of students receiving financial aid increased dramatically due, in part, to
    establishment of a technology-driven Student Financial Aid Fund Development Board with much lower than
    expected operating costs.

    Low implementation capacity caused delays and required significantly greater capacity building efforts than
    anticipated at project approval. At project restructuring only 18.5% of project funds (36% of IDA funds) had been
    disbursed. Despite initial delays, implementation progressed and the number of institutions and beneficiaries
    supported by the project exceeded initial targets. All project funds were disbursed with only a six month delay in
    closing. Procurement irregularities resulted in the cancellation of one International Competitive Bid, which was
    identified and terminated in a timely fashion.

    Post restructuring, project funds continued to support activities to promote the quality and relevance of research,
    which were no longer project objectives. Financial management capacity was weak and required increased
   supervision and monitoring over the life of the project.

   On balance, considering NPV and efficiency in the use of project resources, efficiency is considered Substantial.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       Yes                                      11.8%                                    100%

   ICR estimate                    Yes                                      35.1%                                    100%
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Outcome under the original objectives: Satisfactory
   The objectives were substantially relevant to Nepal's context and strategies. Relevance of Design is rated
   modest. Achievement of the objective to improve the quality of higher education is rated modest. Achievement of
   the remaining three original objectives is rated substantial; project targets were generally met or exceeded.
   Efficiency is rated substantial.

   Outcome under the revised objectives: Satisfactory
   The restructured objective remained substantially relevant to Nepal's context and strategies. Relevance of
   Design is rated modest; certain project activities were more aligned with the revised objectives, but design
   included activities that did not directly support attainment of project objectives (e.g., quality and relevance of
   research). Achievement of two objectives is rated modest (improving the quality of higher education and
   improving efficiency). Achievement of the remaining three objectives is rated substantial (improving the relevance
   and efficiency of higher education and improving access to higher secondary education). Project efficiency is rate
   d substantial.

   According to IEG/OPCS guidelines, the final outcome rating for restructured projects is determined according to
   the percentage of IDA funds that had disbursed before and after restructuring. The grant had disbursed US$
   22.94 million, or 36% of the total, at the time of restructuring. In this case, since the pre- and post-restructuring
   ratings are the same, the overall Outcome rating is Satisfactory.


a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Given the current atmosphere of political instability, the risk that some relevant policies will not be approved
   remains high even with Government strategies shifting away from basic and primary education toward higher
   secondary education, higher education, and skills development. Key issues include approval of a National
   Higher Education Policy, National Program of Higher Education Reform and Development, prioritization of
   reforms, and establishing a national Accreditation System, among others (ICR, p. 15).

   Small-scale gains made under the project’s reform pilot will require continued funding from both the Government
   and donors; the project cannot fill the funding gap through increased efficiency and community and private sector
   support. Scaling up would require significantly more resources and approval of major reforms in higher
   education. In light of the recent earthquakes in Nepal, Government and donor resources will likely move toward
   reconstruction efforts. Should fiscal constraints limit investments in higher education reforms, there will be
   significant risks to continued achievements in the near term. Systemic reforms resulting in gains in quality,
   relevance, and efficiency made at the institutional level should continue; however, achievements also rely on
   sufficient infrastructure.

   A follow-on project, the Higher Education Reforms Project, is continuing to implement the reforms initiated under
   this project.
   Overall Risk to Development Outcome is rated Significant.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   Prior to project approval, the Bank sought the views of a variety of stakeholders to build consensus and
   garner support for the proposed reforms to Nepal's higher education system. Project preparation included
   sector and technical experts. Issues identified by stakeholders and concerns regarding the complexity of
   project design highlighted by an internal Quality Enhancement Review (2005) were not fully reflected in the
   final Board document and resulted in significant delays at the early stages of implementation.

   Political instability was an overarching concern in Nepal at the time of project approval and rated as a
   Substantial risk to project development objectives. The risks associated with the limited capacity of the
   Implementing Agency (UGC) were underestimated causing delays in implementation (e.g., establishing the
   SFAFDB and a Quality Assurance and Accreditation System).

   Financial management risks stemming from weak internal controls were underestimated; mitigation
   measures, in the form of approved action plans, proved insufficient and continued oversight was required
   throughout implementation. Procurement risk was rated high at approval. Weak capacity in the UGC was
   identified and a mitigation plan agreed to including the hiring of qualified staff. However, the Bank had not
   identified issues surrounding procurement and procurement regulations of HEIs under community
   management.

   A system of collecting monitoring and evaluation data was built into project design. The newly establish
   Higher Education Monitoring and Evaluation Information System fell under the aegis of the UGC. Monitoring
   and evaluation arrangements for the higher secondary objectives utilized the Department of Education's well
   established Education Management Information System and the Higher Secondary Education Board. Data
   were self-reported from the UGC, SFAFDB, universities, campuses, and schools. No quality assurance
   arrangements were established to verify self-reported data. While arrangements for collecting data were
   established, monitoring and evaluation arrangements were weak. In design, indicators were not sufficient to
   demonstrate achievement of the objectives. A planned study on the employment of graduates was not
   incorporated into M&E design.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank provided a significant amount of oversight and support throughout project implementation. Its
   efforts in the initial stages focused on technical support to UGC and Tribhuvan University to build capacity
   and to ensure the necessary regulations for decentralization were in place. At the Midterm Review in 2011,
   the project was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. Limited progress had been made despite significant efforts
   on the part of the Bank team to support capacity building in the implementing agencies.

   After significant delays, the project was restructured in 2011 to better align project activities with development
   objectives and to reorient the project with clearer focus on the quality and relevance of higher education.
   Project implementation accelerated. Communication flows with all implementing agencies improved
   post-restructuring, and design of a follow-on project benefited from a nation-wide dialogue on higher
   education policy.

   Financial management however, remained weak; the Bank team increased supervision and monitoring and
   provided continuous capacity building support to all Implementing Agencies.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory
  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   Nepal underwent six transitions of Government during project implementation (ICR, p. 17). Political instability
   caused significant initial project delays due to high turnover of key Ministry officials, delays in appointments,
   and delays in disbursements. Throughout, however, Government commitment remained strong.
   Post-restructuring gains were made in developing a Higher Education Policy.


  Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   Component 1 was implemented by the University Grants Commission (UGC) and (after 2011) Tribhuvan
   University - Project Implementation Office (TU-PIO). Prior to this project, UGC had never implemented a
   donor-funded project, and it had inadequate staff to handle the increased workload this project entailed.
   UGC's low capacity hindered implementation of the primary aspects of the project, the major reforms
   expected under the Reforms Grant Component. Post-restructuring, allocation of the roles and responsibilities
   were spread across two implementation units: UGC implemented the revised Reform Grants Component for
   small universities and colleges, and a newly established implementation unit at Tribhuvan University
   implemented the Tribhuvan University Grants Component. Implementation progress improved after
   restructuring and the division of responsibilities.

   Component 3 was implemented by the Department of Education (DOE). DOE was established as the
   technical implementing agency under a World Bank project in the 1990s and possessed significantly more
   capacity than UGC in executing donor-funded projects. DOE's Education Management Information System
   (EMIS) was fully established at the basic and secondary levels (although there are concerns over the quality
   of the EMIS data); extending EMIS to the higher secondary level was complete and consolidated reports
   produced.

   Weak internal controls remained an area of concern throughout project implementation (see Section 11b).


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The project objectives (both original and revised) were clear; however, in each case the indicators associated
   with the objectives were insufficient. Indicators were pitched at the output level while others did not effectively
   demonstrate attainment of the objectives. Original M&E design included cost-sharing as an indicator of quality
   and relevance. The revised M&E framework included the number of accredited institutions. No key performance
   indicators to measure improvements in the employability of graduates were included in either the original or
   revised M&E design even though the project supported collecting baseline data and conducting an employability
   survey at the beginning and end of the project (PAD, p. 24). Efficiency indicators were not included (e.g., ratio of
   student years to graduates). Key performance indicators associated with HEIs eligibility for grants were not
   collected as part of the project's M&E system. Proposed indicators for quality and relevance of research were not
   included in the results framework.

   Discussion of M&E in the PAD (p. 10) provided a description of which agencies and institutions would collect data
   and measures to enhance the capacity of implementation agencies. Inadequate existing capacity for collecting
   higher education-related data limited collection of outcome and output indicators. Plans to track the employability
   of higher education graduates lacked appropriate controls for other exogenous factors (e.g., rising or falling
   economic growth).

   An existing system to collect and report data at the higher secondary level, higher capacity, and greater
   monitoring requirements improved measurability of indicators for higher secondary outputs.

   Post restructuring, the measure of employability was replaced with more measurable indicators such as number
   of institutions accredited, pass rates, and shares of students enrolled in market-relevant course work (outputs).

b. M&E Implementation:

   Data on original outcome indicators were either not collected or not reported in the Restructuring Paper and the
   ICR. During project implementation, a Higher Education Management Information System (HEMIS) was
   established. The revised outcome indicators were measured and reported as planned through annual reports.
   The DOE's EMIS was expanded to cover grades 11-12. Although not reported in the ICR, there are known
   quality issues with the DOE's EMIS data at the basic and primary level (World Bank PER, 2014).

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR reports (p. 8) that impact evaluations were conducted on all project activities toward project closure but
   provides no details on the findings of these studies. The ICR provided no information on use of M&E data other
   than the production of annual reports.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project triggered Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and was rated Category B due to construction
   and rehabilitation of institutes of higher education. No large-scale construction was planned, and no significant
   environmental impacts were expected. An environmental review found small-scale risks associated with site
   selection and planning for new buildings and building design and construction (PAD, pp. 77-79). Based on this
   review, Nepal's Environmental Guidelines for Colleges and Universities were prepared. The project's
   Environmental Management Plan was consistent with these guidelines. Safeguard compliance was reportedly
   low over most of the implementation period due in part to poor dissemination of required
   documentation/guidelines (ICR, p. 8). Intensified monitoring, including field visits, improved compliance.

   Social safeguards were not triggered. Social inclusion being a primary concern in Nepal, the project was
   designed to improve social inclusion by supporting the enrollment of disadvantaged and under-privileged
   students in higher secondary and higher education.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management : Financial management was weak over the duration of the project, and capacity
   remained low. The project's financial management rating was Moderately Unsatisfactory for an extended period.
   The project made progress post-restructuring due to increased supervision and monitoring of physical progress
   and use of funds, but overall financial management remained weak.

   Procurement: Procurement risk was rated High at approval. Capacity to implement World Bank procurement
   policies and guidelines was low. The Bank conducted training to improve capacity and amended the Financing
   Agreement to allow National Competitive Bidding. Procurement remained slow due to the self-selecting and
   phased nature of institution participation and community procurement regulations. Little to no procurement
   occurred pre-restructuring. One International Competitive Bid was cancelled due to collusion in the bidding
   process.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.
d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately          Quality at entry was weak, resulting in a
                                                            Satisfactory        downgrading of the Bank's performance
                                                                                rating.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately          Political instability and low capacity
                                                            Satisfactory        caused delays in implementation. Weak
                                                                                internal controls remained an issue
                                                                                throughout project implementation.
                  Quality of ICR:                           Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

         Lessons learned taken from the ICR (p. 19) and adapted by IEG:

               Stakeholder consultations are important for major reforms. Implementation delays occur when key
                issues and concerns from consultations are not taken on-board, successful mobilization of
                stakeholders who are unsatisfied with the status quo is insufficient, and dialogue does not reduce
                resistance to reform from vested interests.

               Building implementation capacity is essential when undertaking ambitious and complex reforms in a
                low capacity environment. The major reforms to higher education undertaken in this project were
                implemented by an agency that was not adequately trained or staffed, hindering implementation of
                the primary aspects of the project.

               Targeting financial assistance to poor, academically qualified students can increase enrollment of
                disadvantaged students. In this project, enrollment of girls and Dalits increased at both higher
                secondary and higher education institutions.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is well written and provides a complete summary of a complex project. It focuses heavily on
    implementation experience and less so on analyzing available data to support evidence of project achievements.
    Lessons do not follow from the evidence presented in the ICR.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
