Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23295-ME
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300.0 MILLION
TO THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PHASE II
February 21, 2002
Human Development Sector Management Group
Country Management Unit for Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2001)
Currency Unit = New Peso (MXN$)
MXN$ 1.0 = US$0.109
US$1.0 = MXN$9.207
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGE     School Management Support (Apoyo a la Gesti6n Escolar)
ANMEB      National Agreement for Basic Education Modernization (Acuerdo Nacional
para la Modernizaci6n de la Educaci6n Basica)
APL     Adjustable Program Loan
ATP     Technical Pedagogic Assistants (Asistentes Tecnico Pedag6gicos)
COMPRANET       Internet Procurement Mechanism (Sistema Electronico de Contrataciones
Gubernamentales)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CMRs     Teacher's Resource Centers (Centros de Maestros y Recursos)
CONAFE      National Council for Educational Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento
Educativo) of SEP
CONALITEG      National Free Textbook Commission (Comisi6n Nacional del Libro de Texto
Gratuito)
CONAPO      National Population Council (Consejo Nacional de Poblaci6n)
COPLADE      State Planning Council (Consejo de Planificaci6n del Estado)
DGAF     CONAFE's General Directorate for Administration and Finance (Direcci6n
General de Administraci6n y Finanzas)
DGE     General Directorate for Evaluation (Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n) at SEP
DGEI     General Directorate for Indigenous Education (Direcci6n General de
Educaci6n Indigena) at SEP
DGPPP     General Directorate for Planning, Programming, and Budgeting (Direcci6n
General de Planeaci6n, Programaci6n, y Presupuesto) at SEP
FDI    CONAFE's Institutional Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Institucional)
FM     Financial Management (Gesti6n Financiera)
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report (Informe de Monitoreo Financiero)
FMS     Financial Management Specialist (Especialista en Gesti6n Financiera)
GDP     Gross Domentic Product (Producto Interno Bruto)
GTC     Central Technical Group (Grupo Tecnico Central) for the APL
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Bano Internacional
para Reconstrucci6n y De.sarrollo)
IDB    InterAmerican Development Bank (Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
INEA    National Institute of Statistics, Geography and Infotmation (Instituto Nacional
de Educaci6n para Adultos) of SEP
INEGI    National Institute of Statistics, Geography and Informatics (Instituto Nacional
de Estadistica, Geografia e Informatica
IPDP    Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (Plan de Desarrollo para Pueblos
Indigenas)



GDP     Gross Domestic Product (Producto Interno Bruto)
LGE     General Education Law (Ley General de Educaci6n)
MET     Technical Memorandum of Understanding on Auditing (Memorando Tecnico
de Entendimiento sobre Auditorias)
MIS    Management Information System (Sistema de Informaci6n de Gesti6n)
MXN     Mexican Peso (Peso Mexicano)
NAFIN     National Financing Agency (Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.)
NCB     National Competitive Bidding (Licitaci6n Puiblica Nacional)
NGOs     Non-Government Organizations (Organizaciones No-Gubernamentales)
OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAD     Project Appraisal Document (Documento de Evaluaci6n de Proyecto)
PAM     In-Service Teacher Training Program (Programa de Actualizaci6n del
Magisterio) at SEP
PARE     Primary Education Project (Programapara Abatir el Rezago Educativo) (Ln.
3407-ME, 1991)
PAREB     Second Primary Education Project (Programa para Abatir el Rezago en
Educaci6n Basica) (Ln. 3722-ME, 1994)
PAREIB-I    Basic Education Development Project, APLI (Programa para Abatir el Rezago
en Educacion Inicial y Basica) (Ln. 4333-ME, 1998)
PAREIB-II    Basic Education Development Project, APL2 (Programa para Abatir el Rezago
en Educaci6n Inicial y Baisica)
PIARE    Integral Program of Education (Programa Integral para Reducir el Rezago
Educativo) IDB-financed
PNE    National Education Program (Programa Nacional de Educaci6n)
PME     Education Modernization Program (Programa para la Modernizaci6n
Educativa 1989-1994)
Posprimaria   CONAFE's Rural Community-Based Lower Secondary Education Program
PRODEI     Initial Education Project (Proyecto para el Desarrollo de la Educacion Inicial)
(Ln. 3518-ME, 1992)
PROGRESA      Education, Health, and Nutrition Program (Programa de Educaci6n, Salud, y
Alimentaci6n) at SEDESOL
PROSSE     Program of Essential Social Services (Programa de Servicios Sociales
Esenciales) (Ln. 3913-ME
SCEP    Coordinated Public Education Services (Servicios Coordinados de Educacion
Putblica), SEP's delegation in the states, replaced by SEPEs
SECODAM      Secretariat for Control and Administrative Development (Secretaria de
Contraloria y Desarrollo Administrativo)
SEByN    Undersecretariat of Basic and Normal Education (Subsecretaria de Educaci6n
Basica y Norma!) at SEP
SSEDF    Undersecretariat of Educational Services for the Federal District (Subsecretaria
de Servicios Educativos del Distrito Federal) at SEP
SEP    Secretariat of Public Education (Secretaria de Educacion Publica)
SEPEs    State Level Secretariats of Public Education (Secretarias Estatales de
Educaci6n Puiblica)
SHCP     Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito
Ptublico)
SNTE     National Teachers Union (Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores de la
Educaci6n)
SOE    Statement of Expenses (Estado de Gastos)



SPPP    Undersecretariat for Planning, Programmning, and Budgeting (Subsecretaria
de Planeaci6n, Programaci6n, y Presupuesto) at SEP
SWOT      Analysis of strengths, weakenesses, opportunities and threats (Analisis de
fortalezas, debilidades, oportunidades y riesgos)
Telesecundaria   TV-Based Lower Secondary Education Program at SEPEs
TCP     Teaching Career Program (Programa de la Carrera Magisterial) at SEP
UCEs     CONAFE's State Coordinating Units (Unidades Coordinadoras Estatales)
UPC     CONAFE's Compensatory Programs Unit (Unidad de Programas
Compensatorios).
Vice President:   David De Ferranti
Country Director:   Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director:   Ana Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Eduardo Velez Bustillo



MEXICO
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PHASE II
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                     4
3. Key performance indicators                                                        5
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    5
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                8
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                 9
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    11
3. Benefits and target population                                                   12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              23
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 26
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      26
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         26
2. Financial                                                                        27
3. Technical                                                                        28
4. Institutional                                                                    28
5. Environmental                                                                    29
6. Social                                                                           30
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               32
F. Sustainability and Risks



1. Sustainability                                                                   32
2. Critical risks                                                                   33
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   34
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          34
2. Other                                                                            34
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       35
Attachment I - Sector Policy Letter                                                    36
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        44
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  50
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       55
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         57
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             76
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     78
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   85
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 86
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                93
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          96
Annex 11: Indigenous Peoples Development Assessment                                    98
Annex 12: Phasing of APL Activities                                                   112
Annex 13: Targeting                                                                   120
Annex 14: World Bank Education Sector Strategy                                        124
MAP(S)
IBRD 23547



MEXICO
Basic Education Development Phase II
Project AppirOnB IDocument
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHD
Date: February 21, 2002                          Team Leader: Eduardo Velez Bustillo
Country Director: Olivier Lafourcade             Sector Diirector: Ana-Maria Arriagada
Project ID: P057531                              Sector(s): EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  lTheme(s): Education; Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
.: :lEmated
APL            Indicative Financing Plan       l,      ins. 1 i rn iio n Period  Borrower
. ________ .______________                              (B ank   FY)
IBRD            Others      Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m      US$ m        Date        Date
APL 1       115.00   66.6    57.60      172.60    06/15/1998  12/31/2001 Nacional Financiera (NAFIN)
Loan/
Credit
APL 2       300.00   56.5   231.10      531.10    08/31/2001  06/30/2004 United Mexican States
Loan/
Credit
APL 3      210.00    39.9   316.40      526.40    01/01/2004  06/30/2006 United Mexican States
Loan/
Credit
Total      625.00           605.10     1230.10
[XI Loan     [ ] Credit   [ Grant      [ I Guarantee       O Dther:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $300.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on FiHe: 2 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                        Yeers to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.85% for the first 4 years and 0.75%  Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
thereafter.
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
J Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one):
[ ] Linked to Disbursement



Financing Plan,(US$m):  -Source                           Local        Foreign         Total, y:
BORROWER                                                   231.10           0.00       231.10
IBRD                                                       239.96          60.04       300.00
Total:                                                     471.06          60.04       531.10
Borrower: UNITED MEXICAN STATES
Responsible agency: MiNISTRY OF EDUCATION (SEP) THROUGH CONAFE
(Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo)
Address: Rio Elba 20, Piso 16; Col. Cuauhtemoc 06500; Mexico, D.F.; Mexico
Contact Person: Dr. Roberto Moreira Flores, Director General
Tel: 5-211-2423           Fax: 5-553-3462           Email: rmoreira@conafe.edu.mx
Other Agency(ies):
State-level Secretariats of Education (SEPEs)
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003      2004    -    -       S I-                -    -
Annual   105.00     100.00     95.00
Cumulative  105.00     205.00    300.00
Project implementation period: 2.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 04/20/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2004
OCS APL PAD F-m: R. M.., 2000
-2-



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The proposed project is the second phase of a three-phase program supported by an Adaptable Program
Loan approved by the Board on June 4, 1998. The purpose of the APL is to support implementation of the
Government's compensatory education program, as outlined in National Education Program (PNE) of the
current and former Administrations (Education Development Program 1995-2000 -- "Programa de
Desarrollo Educativo - 1995-2000" and National Education Program 2001-2006 -- "Programa Nacional
de Educaci6n 2001-2006"). The PNE intends to raise the level and quality of schooling in Mexico,
bringing the country's education indicators substantially closer to other OECD countries. The
compensatory programs are implemented through CONAFE (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo),
which targets under-served communities. These communities tend to be: rural, poor, indigenous, and
marginalized urban areas. Phase I of the APL, supported by a US$115.0 million loan (Ln. 4333-ME),
closed on December 31, 2001, after one six month extension.
Board approval for Phase II is required because of the following reasons:
(a)    Triggers. Two of the 16 triggers for Phase I, approved by the Board in June 1998, have not been
fully met. These triggers are (i) the carrying out of a pilot program for children age 9-14 in marginalized
urban areas; and (ii) partial implementation of the Institutional Development Fund (FDI) by the
participating states (See Annex 12). The Government is committed to address during Phase II the two
areas where triggers have been only partially met in a way that appropriately reflects lessons learned during
Phase I and is expected to fully accomplish the original Program objectives.
(b)    Nationwide expansion of the Program. The Government's commitment to the Program is reflected
in the expansion of activities nationwide, from the original 14 states to 31 states. The Interamerican
Development Bank (IDB) has originally financed 17 states, but will no longer do so. Thus, total Program
cost increased by 58 percent from an original estimate of US$780.10 million to US$1230.10 million. In
Phase 2, the Government is assuming the IDB's share of the financing, and as a result, the Government
share in total project financing has increased from 20 percent to 49.2 percent.. Although the proposed
$625.00 million in Bank financing for the Program remains unchanged, the Bank's share in total financing
was reduced to by from 80 percent to 50.8 percent.
(c)    Change in the Borrower. At the request of the Mexican Government, the Borrower will be the
United Mexican States for all loans submitted to the Board starting in calendar 2002, thus Nacional
Financiera, S.N.C. is no longer the Borrower for the Basic Education Development Project. As a result,
legal documents no longer comprise a loan and a guarantee agreement, but only a loan agreement.
The basic education strategy of the PNE focuses on the classroom and on the school. The program is
structured along six main lines: (a) promote equity, ensuring that all children have equal opportunity to
attend and stay in school and to complete basic education; (b) compensate for the social and regional
inequalities by channeling incremental resources to the most disadvantaged students at risk of failing at
school; (c) use flexible, nontraditional modalities to reach all groups through diversified attention to
cultural and linguistic groups; (c) improve the quality of the educational process and student learning
achievements, ensuring that all students gain basic knowledge and develop the intellectual abilities, values,
and attitudes necessary to pursue full personal and family lives, act as competent and commitment
citizenship, participate in productive work, and have the basic conditions to continue to learn throughout
their lives; (d) improve pre-service and in-service training of teachers; and (e) reform the organization of
basic education, ensuring better articulation between levels, and more efficient use of resources. A more
-3 -



complete discussion of the Government basic education sector program appear in the Policy Letter
(Attachment 1) and in Annex 4 of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD for the Basic Education
Development (PAREIB) Project, Report No: 17535-ME, dated May 7, 1998.
The phases of the APL were planned as follows:
*   Phase 1 (1998-2001; Ln. 4333-ME of US$115.0 million) extended the Government's compensatory
education programs to schools targeted by CONAFE's marginality index and not covered by other
projects. Within this context, APLI expanded coverage of lower secondary education in rural areas,
mainly through telesecundaria and posprimaria modalities. This phase also piloted new modalities of
basic education including education for migrant children, and for indigenous children in regular schools
through inter-cultural, bilingual teaching. A pilot program for out-of-school children age 9-14 in
marginal urban areas was not implemented because its design proved to be inadequate. In addition,
APL 1 helped prepare a competitive fund to support education innovation initiatives proposed by states,
even though the fund was not made fully operational during APLl, as planned.
*   Phase 11 (2001-2003; loan of US$300.0 million), the current proposal, to be implemented in
2002-2003, seeks to rationalize and integrate the various compensatory programs into a more
decentralized environment, both in terms of organization and financing. APL2 will expand the
activities of APL 1, covering additional targeted schools and communities nationwide. APL2 will also
continue the efforts of the PAREB project (Ln. 3722-ME) at the primary school level. APL2 support
initial, preschool, primary and lower-secondary education in the poorest communities nationwide,
extending the originally planned coverage of primary education from 14 to 31 states. APL2 will
develop criteria for graduating from the program those primary school that show significant
improvement in education indicators.
*   Phase II (2004-2006; loan of US$210.0 million), is current proposed to be implemented in 2004-2005
and, if approved, would support the continued implementation of the Government's compensatory
education program based on (i) an assessment of progress in raising completion rates for targeted
primary schools and enrollment rates for lower-secondary schools (telesecundaria), and continue to
graduate from the program the school that no longer need additional support; and (ii) an adaptation of
the mechanisms to support decentralization of the compensatory education program at state level, built
under APLI and APL2. Current estimates indicate that it will be desirable to increase the original loan
amount for APL3 by US$90.0 million, in order to keep the share of IBRD financing at similar level as
in APL2. This issue will be considered during the preparation of APL3.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Phase I objectives were:
(a) To provide quality improvements in initial and basic education, including nontraditional
modalities of post-primary education;
(b) To improve the school supervision system;
(c) To develop and implement improved school-based school management strategies;
(d) To design and pilot new education modalities to better meet the needs of migrant children,
children aged 9-14 in urban marginal areas, indigenous children in general primary schools,
and community-based post primary education (posprimaria); and,
(e) To strengthen institutional capacity for system management and for planning, programming,
and evaluation at the federal and state levels.
- 4 -



APLI has largely achieved these goals. As Annexes 4 and 12 show, many results exceeded targets
by substantial margins, and only two of the triggers for the preparation of APL2 were not fully met
(see Annex 12).
Phase II objectives are:
(a) To consolidate and expand quality improvements in initial and basic education (preschool,
primary, and  lower-secondary  education), covering, inter  alia,  infrastructure
improvements, didactic materials provision, teacher training, school supervision, and
implementation of school-based management strategies;
(b) To strengthen management of the education system through support for the Government's
ongoing strategy to consolidate the organization and management of basic education
(preschool through lower secondary), and to integrate the operation of the compensatory
education program;
(c) To put in operation a competitive fund to support education innovations proposed by the
states; and
(d) To continue strengthening of states' institutional capacity to plan, program, and evaluate the
delivery of basic education services.
Phase III objectives will likely focus on the fine-tuning of delivery mechanisms based on a more
fully developed decentralization model.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key indicators under Phase II include:  (a) Physical implementation indicators, to provide evidence of
tangible progress in delivering a set of critical inputs to the project schools; (b) Satisfactory progress in
policy activities that seek to strengthen the decentralization process and to improve the efficiency and
equity of education services; (c) Educational outcome indicators covering completion, failure, repetition
and dropout rates for targeted schools compared to national rates, distinguishing between indigenous and
non-indigenous preschools and primary schools; and (d) Coverage of targeted students and schools by
compensatory subprogram and educational level. For key indicators of APL1, see World Bank, "Basic
Education Development (PAREIB) Project," Annex 1, Report No: 17535-ME dated May 7, 1998.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22147-MX Date of latest CAS discussion: May 21, 2001
The most recent CAS for Mexico (Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report) stresses social
sustainability, macroeconomic stability and sustainable growth, and effective public government, as
strategic priorities for achieving poverty reduction. This APL implements the CAS strategies by giving the
poor access to quality basic education. In this regard, the APL breaks the vicious cycle of poverty,
achieving social sustainability and promoting sustainable growth. For education to be effective in reducing
poverty, universal primary school enrollment-which basically Mexico has already achieved--is
insufficient; the poorest segments of the population must receive basic education of improved quality and
efficiency. Achieving this goal is a major challenge, particularly in the poorest states, in rural areas, and in
indigenous communities, where dropout and repetition rates are high, and preschool coverage, cognitive
achievement, and enrollment in secondary education are low.
The instruments to address this challenge include: (a) Improving teacher quality; (b) Increasing teacher
-5 -



retention in isolated rural areas; (c) Reducing grade repetition and dropout rates; (d) Improving academic
achievement among the poor, rural, and indigenous populations; (e) Improving management capacity in
strategic planning and evaluation at both federal and state levels; and (f) Increasing community
participation in school management. The APL approved in June 1998 harnesses all these instruments.
The proposed APL2 further integrates interventions designed to improve the education of Mexico's poorest
groups to meet the standards of the rest of the country. On balance, these interventions help disadvantaged
groups emerge from poverty while raising the average level and quality of schooling in the Mexican
population as a whole.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Mexico has made important progress in providing universal primary education. An important achievement
in the last decade was the increased allocation of resources to the education sector, moving from 3.7
percent of GDP in 1990 to 4.9 percent in 2000, which helped the country reach quantitative goals. Total
public education spending per student in Mexico increased steadily in the 1990s, in spite of the increase in
total student population. Today, nearly 90 percent of school-age children attend primary school; 86 percent
of these students complete primary school. An estimated 83 percent of 13-15 year old children attend lower
secondary education; 76 percent of enrollees (62 percent of the 13-15 year old population) complete lower
secondary education. Despite recent progress, universal coverage remains a challenge and the quality of
basic education remains distantly below international standards. In 1992, the Federal Government, the
State Governors, and the Teachers' Union began a concerted effort to address these problems through the
National Agreement for the Modernization of Basic Education (ANMEB), which a new general education
law ratified in 1993. The agreement undertook bold policy reforms, extending basic compulsory education
from six to nine years and integrating preschool as a free (but not compulsory) part of basic education. In
addition, the Government gave managerial responsibility for basic education to the 31 states, approved a
new curriculum, allocated more resources to education, and emphasized compensatory programs that
provide extra support to education for specific disadvantaged groups.
The current Government's main priority is to provide quality basic education to all citizens. The
government hopes to achieve this goal by improving learning outcomes, developing innovative approaches
to reach remote and marginalized groups, and providing better educational opportunities to those students
progressing slowly than expected. The Government's PNE emphasizes the special needs of handicapped
children, migrant children, indigenous children, and children living in rural or marginal urban areas. The
main issues facing the Government's compensatory education programs are:
(a) Low readiness for learning among children entering school, especially among the poor.
High repetition rates in early primary school identify readiness as a major problem, although
improvements have occurred. From the 1992-93 school year to the 1998-99 year, repetition
rates for poor primary students decreased from 13 percent to 9.3 percent, but even the 1999
rates are significantly higher than the national average, and repetition in first grade continues
to be the most common. Research shows that investments in early childhood education and
preschool increases school readiness and substantially impact learning outcomes in primary
school and beyond. But participation in initial and preschool education remains very low
among the poor, thereby perpetuating the vicious cycle of poverty. Only five percent of
children below the age of four benefit from formal or informal initial education, and although
coverage of public preschool has increased by 26% over the last ten years, access to these
.programs for the poor is still very limited. This limited access may explain why grade
repetition by poor children in primary school remains frequent.
-6 -



(b) Inadequate training for teachers working with at-risk students. The majority of teachers
graduating from pre-service training institutions refuse teaching positions in remote rural or
indigenous schools, forcing the Government to rely on untrained teachers to provide
educational services in remote rural areas. SEP/CONAFE has addressed this problem by
offering in-service training programs.
(c) Poor fit between education programs and the needs of students and communities. As part
of the school management reform, SEP is encouraging schools and communities to develop
pedagogical strategies that better fit local conditions. Lack of local capacity has limited the
opportunities for this reform, particularly in remote areas. The program will train and
supervise principals and teachers, and encourage teachers and parents to develop school-based
initiatives that meet the specific needs of their children.
(d) Deficient supervision.  Supervisory practices, despite recent improvements, are still
fragmented and centered on monitoring compliance with administrative regulations, rather than
on pedagogical support to teachers and to schools directed at improving the teaching/learning
process. Under the Government's new strategy, the supervisory team (including technical
pedagogic assistants ) have a primary role in providing pedagogical support to teachers in the
classroom and in identifying and addressing the specific training needs of teachers.
(e) Low secondary education coverage. The recent increase in lower secondary education
enrollment is good but insufficient. Approximately 38 percent of students who complete
primary education do not continue to secondary school, either because places are unavailable
or because the school programs do not accommodate their need to work. Leaving education
before secondary school is a critical problem for migrant students, who represent a significant
percent of the primary and lower secondary school-age children not attending school. The
Program supports nontraditional modalities for providing secondary education, especially
extending coverage to rural areas through distance education and community-based programs (
telesecundaria and posprimaria), complementing the Government's Education, Health and
Nutrition Program (PROGRESA) which provides, inter alia, demand incentives for families
to send their children to school.
(f) Weak managerial and administrative capacity at the state level. States have uneven
institutional capacity to provide basic education services and to operate, monitor and evaluate
ongoing compensatory programs. These weaknesses hamper the states' ability to translate
national education policies and strategies into concrete actions, to target resources towards
localities of greatest need, and to monitor student achievements.
(g) Fragmentation of basic education by level and type. Each level and type of education has
distinct management and administrative structure.  This bureaucracy has led to both
administrative inefficiency from duplication of bureaucratic structures and inconsistency in the
policies, strategies and objectives of each modality. The first step in addressing this problem
was the integration of preschool, primary and lower secondary into basic education. The
Government's goal is to continue this integration by consolidating management structures and
better articulating the national core curriculum.
(h) Lack of critical school inputs in poor, rural, indigenous, and marginal urban communities.
Schools serving the poor, rural, indigenous, and marginalized urban poor lack critical inputs.
- 7 -



Rectification of educational inequities requires not only provision of infrastructure, materials
and teachers, but also offering critical inputs to schools, including pedagogical support to
teachers and effective school management.
The Government's PNE, which the Bank has supported since its inception, addresses these issues. For the
2001-2006 period, the SEP/CONAFE strategy focuses on establishing minimum operational standards for
all schools targeted by the compensatory education program, developing innovative programs to address the
needs of students, involving schools and communities in education decision-making, and developing the
institutional capacity of states to design and implement national education policies and compensatory
programs.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Strategic choices were made as to the scope, focus, and coverage of both the Program as a whole and the
APL2 specifically. Goals for these strategic choices were to optimize resource use and program impact.
Experience from previous basic education development projects in Mexico strongly influenced these
choices.
Resulting choices continued to support the Government's compensatory education program for basic
education (preschool through lower secondary), by combining different projects into a single system. This
strategy targets direct inputs to the schools attended by the poorest students. It also provides technical
assistance to support the Government's education reform by investing in teacher training, school
supervision, and community participation. The Government's decision to unify basic education, affords
improvements in the efficiency of the education system in Mexico. External support can enhance this effort
by seeking economies of scale where possible and by promoting the integration of interventions within an
increasingly decentralized environment.
The choice to support lower secondary education programs targeted to the poor, is based on the need to
increase the level of education of the poor and give them an avenue out of poverty. The success of earlier
and ongoing programs (such as PROGRESA and the Compensatory Education Program) increased demand
for secondary education among the poor, thereby making capacity expansion and quality enhancement
urgent tasks, especially at the lower secondary level. With the unification of the basic education cycle,
attention needs to be given to system-wide strategies, particularly curricula coherence and transitions
between levels.
The choice to provide key inputs to the poorest schools, reflects the finding that the presence of all critical
inputs can magnify quality improvements. This synergy effect encouraged a project design that ensures
availability and opportune delivery of key inputs at the school level, and the use of corrective measures
when supply is missing or deficient. In the area of teacher training and school supervision, the government
has reoriented its approach to emphasize team work and school-centered strategies.
The choice to graduate from the program those schools that have already attained significant improvement
in key education indicators is made based on the government policy for compensatory education program,
which stresses targeting to the most needy schools. The graduated schools will continue to be monitored
with respect to education indicators and students achievement, to ascertain if they indeed are able to
maintain improved performance in the absence of the additional support provided by the compensatory
education program. The graduation process and its monitoring, will provide an important test to the long
term sustainability of the program.
In contrast to earlier education compensatory programs, the proposed APL2 covers all 31 states,
supporting initial and basic education.  Expanded coverage allows for effective consolidation of
- 8 -



compensatory interventions while strengthening the capacity of the states to plan and execute the Program.
APL2 also strengthens federalization of the education system, through technical assistance to improve
institutional capacity at state level, particularly in planning and evaluation. At the central level, the project
supports the normative role of SEP/CONAFE in identifying the universe and priority criteria for the
compensatory education programs, in defining the target population, and in providing quality standards,
pedagogicaVadministrative norms, and regulations to guide state action.
Investment in early childhood education and in the first years of schooling at preschools, substantially
improves learning in later years. The Government has reoriented its approach to initial education in rural
areas by strengthening its community base, by focusing on the role of parents as educators, and by
emphasizing adequate child raising practices. The Government has expanded communication efforts and
revised materials for parents and community promoters along a more participatory mode. The Program will
continue to support and expand initial education in Mexico's poorest communities as an integral part of the
basic education system.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The Program supports the Government compensatory education strategy through a set of interventions
designed to improve initial and basic education in the poorest communities and to strengthen the
institutional capacity in the education sector at federal and state levels. Within this basic framework, the
Program design is flexible, allowing for periodic adjustments based on experience. APL1 activities sought
to improve quality in preschool, general secondary, technical secondary, telesecundaria, and initial
education at schools serving the poorest 50 percent of rural students and the poorest 25 percent of students
in urban marginal areas. During the implementation of APL1, the strategy evolved to emphasize, instead,
the extension of coverage of rural lower secondary education, particularly through distance education (
telesecundaria). Program activities in other levels were carried out in reduced scale. This realignment of
priorities was a result of the sharp increase in demand for lower secondary education resulting from higher
completion rates in primary school and the impact of education incentives provided by PROGRESA. The
triggers for APL2 were met in relation to Component 1. For Component 2, all triggers were met, except
two that were only partially met. As Annex 12 indicates, one partially met trigger corresponds to the
implementation of the competitive part of the Institutional Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo
Institutional -FDI), which proved poorly designed because, inter alia, the competitive element among
states was not readily accepted by the states. APL2 will support a Basic Education Innovation Fund, which
improves upon the design of the original FDI. The second partially met trigger refers to the pilot program
for children age 9-14 in urban marginal areas. The institution responsible for carrying out this pilot (the
National Institute for Adult Education - INEA), was substantially restructure during APLI, thereby
restricting its mandate to the population 15 years or older requiring education assistance. During APL2, a
study of basic education in marginalized areas of Mexico City will seek to provide the research base to
design appropriate education interventions for marginalized urban youth. Because of these partially met
triggers, and the proposed changes in timing of the APL phases, Board approval will be sought for the
proposed loan supporting APL2.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
APL2 Program components:
Component 1 - Quality Improvements in Initial and Basic Education
-9-



This component seeks to continue and expand quality enhancing activities carried out in APLI, covering
additional targeted schools and communities at initial, preschool, primary, and lower secondary levels, both
in rural and marginal urban areas. APL2 will also integrate the organization and finances of CONAFE's
compensatory programs nationwide.
This component will finance, inter alia, the following:
(a) Expansion or rehabilitation of education infrastructure in targeted communities;
(b) Educational materials and equipment for students, teachers, and schools;
(c) Training for teachers, supervisors, other administrative staff and initial education promoters, including
technical assistance at the school level provided by the Network for Education Quality in Primary
Schools, and performance incentives for primary teachers;
(d) Support and technical assistance to community or parents associations for school-based management
activities;
(e) Improvement of school supervision.
Component 2 - Strengthening Institutional Capacity at Federal and State Levels
This component will further strengthen the management capacity of key sector entities at both federal and
state levels through:
(a) Consolidating the SEP national evaluation system and evaluation of education outcomes at state level;
(b) Consolidating the national school mapping system and its use in regional planning for basic education
at state level;
(c) Educational research through studies;
(d) Strengthening the role of the Secretariats of Education (SEPEs) to better provide basic education
services by reinforcing their capacity to plan, program, budget, monitor and evaluate the delivery of
basic education services;
(e) Education innovation at state level, through the Basic Education Innovation Fund; and,
(f) Project administration at central and state level, contract and benefits for personnel at central and state
level, and operational costs.
This component will finance technical assistance at the federal and state levels for: (a) the development of
more efficient management practices, (b) the implementation of the national evaluation and school mapping
systems, and (c) SEPEs' institutional building priorities, such as integration of the administration of basic
education at state level, and rationalization of SEPEs operations through reducing duplication of functions.
Financing will also be provided for incremental operating cost incurred in project administration, office
equipment, primary teacher performance incentives, and for salaries and benefits of personnel in the central
area and in the 31 states.  Operating costs include inter alia, per diem and travel expenses for
administrative staff travel, office materials, office maintenance and utilities.
- 10 -



Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector        Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (US$M)   financing
1. Quality Improvements in Initial                              0.0                 0.0
and Basic Education
1.1 Infrastructure and equipment  Other Education   102.50     19.3     76.90      25.6
1.2 Didactic materials          Other Education      74.53      14.0     15.40      5.1
1.3 Training                    Institutional       166.95     31.4     91.80       30.6
Development
1.4 School management           Institutional        88.02      16.6     72.00     24.0
Development
1.5 School supervision                                7.76      1.5       5.80       1.9
Institutional
Development
2.Institutional Strengthening                                    0.0                 0.0
2.1 Consolidation of the national  System Reform &   18.16       3.4     13.60       4.5
evaluation system               Capacity Building
2.2 Consolidation of the national school System Reform &  1.60   0.3      1.20       0.4
mapping system                  Capacity Building
2.3 Studies                     Institutional         3.42       0.6      2.60       0.9
Development
2.4 Institutional Strengthening  Institutional       11.03       2.1      8.30       2.8
Development
2.5 Basic Education Innovation Fund  Institutional    6.12       1.2      4.60       1.5
Development
2.6 Project Administration      Institutional        48.01       9.0      4.80       1.6
Development
0.0                 0.0
Total Project Costs                528.10      99.4    297.00      99.0
Front-end fee                    3.00      0.6      3.00        1.0
Total Financing Required                  531.10     100.0    300.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The program supports consolidation of the following key policies:
(a)  Gradual decentralization in the operation of the compensatory programs through (i)
strengthening the states' institutional capacity to plan and operate the basic education system;
and, (ii) promoting school autonomy, through increased participation of communities and
parents-school associations in school management.



(b) Consolidation of the targeting criteria of the education compensatory programs to improve the
quality of education for poor students in the most remote rural areas and marginal urban
areas, and to establishing an appropriate "graduation" policy for the schools that no longer
require compensatory support.
(c) Increased accountability at all levels, through improvements in teacher training, provision of
minimum operational standards for targeted schools, dissemination of national learning
assessment results nationwide, and support for school-parents associations.
(d) Integration of the compensatory education programs (initial and basic education covering
preschool through lower secondary) to reduce the excessive bureaucracy and inconsistency
inherent in the present fragmented system.
3. Benefits and target population:
About 3.5 million students are currently enrolled in preschool education (gross enrollment of 71
percent), 14.8 million in primary education, and 6.4 million in lower secondary education.
Overall, the basic education enrollment for the year 2000 was approximately 23.6 million students,
or 120% of the age group 6-14, indicating a significant share of students who enroll late. The
APL targets direct benefits (defined as improvements in didactic material, training of school
personnel, technical assistance, and prirmary teachers performance incentives) to schools in rural
and marginal urban areas with the highest incidence of poverty and lowest education indicators,
seeking to ensure the successful completion of basic education schooling for poor children. In
broad terms, the Program seeks to reach: (a) 9.86 percent of the children aged 0-4 of whom, 9.5
percent are indigenous children (according to INEGI 2000 Population Census); (b) at preschool
level, the program will cover 87 percent indigenous children and 25 percent of non-indigenous
children in rural areas; (c) at primary school level, 100 percent indigenous primary school children
will be covered, in addition to 73 percent non-indigenous rural primary school children, the poorest
25 percent of primary school children in urban marginal areas; (d) at the lower secondary level, the
program covers all students attending rural telesecundarias. Target populations for Component I
by level, type of program, and by school-year is presented below for the entire APL Program.
- 12 -



APL Coverage Targets - Component 1, 1998-2006
A. Students and Schools
End APL1 End APL1 End APL2 End APL3
Baseline Target    Actual 1/  Target   Target
Program      Level     Group   1997-1998 1998-2001 1998-2001 2002-2003 2004-2005
Non-          Initial  Families 2/                    472,994    974,556   974,600
Indigenous
Preschool   Students    342,000   349,500    23,061   232,686   232,700 -
Schools      12,750    13,400       346     7,657     7,700
Primary 3/  Students       NA         NA        NA   3,421,867 3,422,000
Schools,       NA        NA         NA     28,136    28,200
Indigenous Initial    Families     32,500    41,000    35,866     73,899    73,900
Preschool   Students    285,000   307,000     8,352   255,271   255,300
Schools       8,000     8,600       172     7,665     7,700
Primary     Students       NA        NA         NA    793,606   793,700
Schools        NA        NA         NA      9,142     9,200
Total     Initial     Families         2/             508,860  1,048,455  1,048,500
Preschool   Students    627,000   656,500    31,413   487,957   488,000
Schools      20,750    22,100       518    15,322     15,400
Primary 3/  Students       NA         NA        NA  4,215,473  4,215,700
Schools        NA         NA        NA     37,278    37,400
Posprimaria 4/        Students         51     8,025     9,575         6/    _   6
Schools          5       321        383        6          6/
Telesecundaria 4/     Students    217,00C   231,000   236,298 274,926    142,562 7
Schools       5,60C     6,200     6,061     4,230     2,271
1/ Actual figures as of June 2001 and estimated figures through 12/31/2001.
2/ The baseline for non-indigenous initial education does not exist because only indigenous population
are targeted.
3/ During APLI primary education was covered by PAREB and PIARE programs.
4/ Posprimaria and telesecundaria include both non-indigenous and indigenous students.
5/ Posprimaria did not exist in 1997-1998.
6/ As of school year 2001-2002, the posprimaria program was transferred to the regular conununity
education program of CONAFE for community education.
7/ In the case of telesecundaria, the target is cumulative, considering that in each phase different schools
are targeted; thus, in the end of Phase III all 12,578 telesecundarias are expected to have benefited
from the program. The selection of which telesecundaria to benefit in each phase is made according to
the established targeted criteria for the compensatory education program (see Annex 13).
Other direct beneficiaries of the Program are teachers, supervisors, education administrators,
parents and communities. All of these beneficiaries will receive training provided by the project.
In addition, primary teachers will benefit from technical assistance and performance incentives;
primary school supervisors and sector chiefs will benefit from per diem to facilitate visits to the
schools, and technical pedagogic assistants (ATPs) will receive both training and monetary
incentives. The number of non-student beneficiaries is given below for APL2. During APL3, the
number of non-student beneficiaries is estimated to be approximately the same number as in
- 13 -



APL2.
B. Other Beneficiaries
Other Direct Project Beneficiaries      PAREIB APL2
Promoters of Initial Education          52,423
Preschool teachers                      24,896
Primary school teachers                  162,174
(of which, 32,616 in Indigenous schools)
Technical Pedagogic Assistants (ATP) for the  5,306
Network for Education Quality in Primary
Schools
Telesecundaria teachers                 12,879
School parents associations             52,600
(of which, 15,322 in preschools)
Primary school supervisors and sector chiefs  1,538
(of which 955 in indigenous schools)
Benefits by Phase.
APLI was implemented in 31 states covering initial, preschool, and lower-secondary education
levels, while primary education was covered by PAREB and PLARE projects. During APLI,
coverage of lower-secondary education was extended to 244,998 poor rural students through
telesecundarias and posprimaria modalities. In addition, APL1 provided for  quality
improvements in education for approximately 611,000 children at the initial education level
(through 508,860 parents), and successfully developed educational models for indigenous children
attending regular primary schools, and for migrant children. These pilot programs have been
absorbed by SEP, as part of the regular basic education program, thus ensuring their
sustainability.
APL2 will be implemented in 31 states covering initial, preschool, primary, and lower-secondary
education levels. The short-term benefits of APL2 include quality improvements in education for
approximately 6.2 million children (of whom, 1.3 million, or 20 percent, are indigenous children),
and 347,557 other direct beneficiaries, as follows:
(a) 1,258,147 children at the initial education level (through 1,048,455 parents);
(b) 487,957 preschool children;
(c) 4,215,473 primary school students;
(d) 274,926 children in rural areas at the lower secondary level, attending telesecundaria
schools;
(e) 52,423 initial education promoters;
(f) 24,896 preschool teachers;
(g) 162,174 primary school teachers;
(h) 37,279 primary school supervisors;
(i) 5,306 technical pedagogic assistants (ATPs);
(j) 52,600 parents associations at preschool and primary levels; and,
(k) 12,879 telesecundaria teachers.
- 14 -



The Program benefits children and communities indirectly, through more efficient education
services that are expected to result from institutional development and decentralization activities
supported under Component 2.
At the end of APL2, medium-term benefits will accrue from improved efficiency and equity in the
management and delivery of educational services at both the federal and state levels. The technical
assistance program will strengthen the capacity for policy analysis and strategic planning at the
federal level and, at the same time, will improve the capacity of the SEPEs' to plan, operate,
monitor and evaluate regular and compensatory programs at the state level.
The long-term benefits of the Program derive from the projected increase in the average years of
schooling of the population, owing to the greater coverage and higher quality of basic education
for the poor. This increase will imply a reduction in the absolute level of poverty for those who can
participate more productively in the economy (see Annex 4 for an economic analysis of the
Program).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 2.5 years
Executing Agencies. As in APLl, CONAFE will be the main executing agency for the Program, and will
coordinate all implementation activities on behalf of SEP.  CONAFE has extensive experience
implementing Bank- and IDB-financed projects, and will exercise its project coordination responsibilities
through a Compensatory Programs Unit (UPC), with participation of SEP's nornative units, notably the
Under-Secretariat for Basic and Normal Education (Subsecretaria de Educaci6n Basica y Normal-
SEByN), the Under-Secretariat for Planning, Programming and Budget (Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n,
Programaci6n y Presupuesto- SPPP), the General Directorate for Evaluation (Direcci6n General de
Evaluaci6n - DGE), and the Under-Secretariat for Educational Services of the Federal District
(Subsecretaria de Servicios Educativos del Distrito Federal - SSEDF). The UPC has operative units in
each state (Unidad Coordinadora Estatal - UCE), that work closely with the state education authorities
(SEPEs). The UPC coordinates program operations with the relevant CONAFE General Directorates,
especially the General Directorate for Planning (DGP), and the General Directorate for Administration and
Finance (DGAF). These units are adequately organized and staffed to perform the required administrative,
supervisory and financial management functions; in particular, the DGAF it has recently strengthened its
financial management unit with skilled staff. The responsibilities of UPC include:
(a) Project execution activities;
(b) Consolidation of the yearly work plan and program execution review;
(c) Procurement;
(d) Information preparation for the review of annual implementation;
(e) Coordination with normative areas of SEP;
(f) Communication with state-level offices; and
(g) Monitoring of project objectives, goals, processes, and timetables in coordination with SEP and the
SEPEs.
Through the SEPEs, the states plan and execute compensatory education activities according to the national
guidelines, which specify the targeted schools and communities, menu of supported activities, educational
norms to be met, and procedures to be used. Through the UCEs, the states prepare annual work plans for
the compensatory program, including procurement plans for the following year, which CONAFE
- 15-



consolidates at the federal level. CONAFE carries out procurement at the central level (under ICB or
NCB); while the UCEs in each state carry out procurement at the municipal or school level, for smaller
contracts. The UCEs implemented PAREB and PIARE projects, as well as APLI. A fully staffed UCE
was established by CONAFE for the 17 states where primary schools were not covered by PAREB. The
institutional capacity of CONAFE is deemed satisfactory (see Section E on institutional and financial
analysis below).
CONAFE developed significant project management capacity in previous Bank-supported projects, and
meets minimum Bank financial management requirements. It has adequate procedures for budget control,
adequate structures for internal control and financial reporting, and a computerized information system that
supports accounting processes and transactions. The agency employs well trained professionals; and its
financial management arrangements were considered appropriate for APLI. But CONAFE must still
adjust its management infornation system to produce quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs).
CONAFE and the Bank agreed on an action plan to strengthen the current management information system
(MIS).
Expansion and/or rehabilitation of school infrastructure by municipalities and local communities, will
follow the same planning and financial transfer mechanisms used in PAREB and in APLI (see Annex 6).
For these activities, investment planning is carried out at the state level; CONAFE consolidates state plans
at the federal levels, and submits the corresponding budget to the Ministry of Finance. Nacional
Financiera, S.N.C.(NAFIN), the financial agency for the project, oversees authorized funds transfers to
each state on a quarterly basis through commercial banks; these transfers are. 00 percent pre-financed by
CONAFE's regular budget, and loan reimbursements are made only after actual expenditures are
documented. Communities with approved infrastructure plans, receive 60 percent of funds in advance to
purchase all materials, with the balance disbursed as civil works progress. NAFIN also oversees transfers
of funds to SEP units participating in project implementation. The approval by the Bank of the
Construction Design Criteria, and of the Standard Contract Document for education infrastructure, are
conditions of loan effectiveness.
For APL2 the Borrower is The United Mexican States and NAFIN assumes the function of financial
intermediary. NAFIN submits withdrawal applications to the Bank, maintains (along with CONAFE)
separate records and accounts for all transactions under the loan, and commissions audits of deposit
accounts in accordance with standard Bank requirements.
Once the MIS system upgrade has taken place, CONAFE will ensure that its MIS produces quarterly
FMRs, in additional to other basic reporting requirements. Eventually, the use of FMRs will allow the
migration from  traditional procedures to FMR-based disbursements.  Consequently, traditional
disbursement methods (mainly Statement of Expenses - SOEs and direct payments) will be used until
CONAFE is ready to adopt the FMR-based disbursement methodology, which will be contingent upon (i)
the agreement of CONAFE, SHCP, NAFIN and the Bank, and (ii) full compliance of Bank requirements.
The Bank, NAFIN and CONAFE had already agreed on the format and content of PMRs, but as the
project opted for the use of the FMR format, discussions were initiated to ensure appropriate and timely
reporting. In accordance with a time-bound action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for improving its current
MIS systems, CONAFE will produce quarterly FMRs acceptable to the Bank, starting 45 days after the
first full quarter/period after loan effectiveness. These arrangements and resulting procedures are reflected
in the Project Operations Manual for APL2.
- 16-



Procurement of Works, Goods and Services. Procurement of works and goods financed by the Bank under
the project will be carried out in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans
(Annex 6).
Review by the World Bank The proposed threshold for prior review by the Bank is based on the
procurement assessment of the project executive agency and is summarized in Annex 6. In addition to the
review of individual procurement actions, the annual procurement plan will be reviewed and approved by
the Bank, as will the procurement audits carried out during the project implementation period.
Financial Management. In order to comply with Bank requirements of OP/BP 10.02, a certified Financial
Management Specialist (FMS) carried out an assessment of CONAFE's institutional capacity on financial
management. The assessment covered the project's financial management system (budgeting, accounting,
internal control, auditing and reporting), and the agency's equipment and staffing. Additionally, two
analyses were carried out: one focused on the strengths/weaknesses/opportunities/threats or SWOT
analysis, and the second focused on risk assessment. The results of both analyses were incorporated in the
FM Assessment, which was based on applicable Bank guidelines. Supporting documentation is in the
project file on financial management (see Annex 6). The FM Assessment also covered the format and
content of the PMRs. However, after the new FMR were launched, discussion with CONAFE officials
were initiated to refocus from PMR to FMR, an it use for project management and reporting, and
eventually also disbursing.
The FM assessment concluded that CONAFE's financial management system is adequate, and satisfies
minimum Bank's financial management requirements. It also ascertained that CONAFE developed
significant project management capacity during prior and ongoing projects, which ensures continuity in
operations. For the production of PMRs, CONAFE's will enhance its financial management system
according to an Action Plan satisfactory to the Bank. Presently, CONAFE is adjusting its actions to focus
on FMR preparation.
Budgeting Process and Flow of Funds. CONAFE prepares the annual project budget. Financing for the
project is included in the regular CONAFE budget, clearly identifying in accounting records by the digit, as
agreed by the Bank and SHCP for identification of Bank-financed projects. Details on budgeting process
and flow of funds are part of the Project Operations Manual.
Special Account and Project Account. A Special Account will be established at the Banco de Mexico
and be managed by NAFIN. CONAFE's General Directorate for Administration (DGAF), in collaboration
with the Compensatory Program Unit (UJPC), will provide NAFIN with instructions and supporting
documentation for all transactions affecting the Special Account, including disbursements, reimbursements,
and direct payments. CONAFE will not have direct access to the Special Account. A Project Account, in
local currency, will be open in a commercial bank. Funds from this account will be used to pay project
expenditures under eligible categories and components, and will provide the resources for advances made
for specific activities. These expenditures will be 100 percent pre-financed by CONAFE's regular budget,
and   periodic reimbursements through the Special Account will processed thereafter, based on
documentation of actual expenditures. Both NAFIN and CONAFE will operate in line with Bank financial
management guidelines and procedures, and both will conserve all its corresponding supporting
documentation, to be made available to the Bank or to the auditors, as required. Additionally, NAFIN will
prepare and provide to the Bank a monthly statement of reconciliation of all transactions affecting the
Special Account.
- 17-



Disbursement. As mentioned above, a Special Account in US Dollars will be established at the Banco de
Mexico for APL2. The authorized allocation in this Special Account is US$ 30.0 million, which will be
limited at the early stage of the project to an initial deposit of US$ 10.0 million. When the aggregate
disbursements under the loan have reached US$20.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to
the authorized allocation amount. The Special Account will be monthly replenished, and will be used for
all transactions eligible for financing from the loan. Traditional documentation requirements apply for
direct payments, special commitments, and SOEs.  When the project is converted to FMR-based
disbursement methodology, disbursement procedures will be modified in line with Bank requirements and,
the authorized amount of the Special Account may be increased up to US$ 50.0 million.
Accounts and Audit CONAFE will maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the
project. The financial and accounting system to be used in the initial phase of project implementation will
be the same used by CONAFE in the implementation of the Second Prinary Education (PAREB, Ln.
3722-ME) and the APLl (Basic Education Development, Ln. 4333-ME). The due date for the first FMR
is 45 days after the first full quarter/period after loan effectiveness. CONAFE will prepare and submit
FMRs to the Bank on a quarterly basis, linking project expenditures to key monitoring indicators of project
activities. The format and basis to produce these PMRs was agreed by CONAFE, NAFIN and the Bank,
and is part of the Project Operations Manual. Nevertheless, the Project Operations Manual will be
adjusted to reflect the adoption of the new FMRs. The approval by the Bank of the Project Operations
Manual is a condition of loan effectiveness.
External audits of project financial statements will be required on an annual basis for all expenditures with
respect to which withdrawals from both the Loan Account and the Special Account were made. CONAFE
will ensure that records, accounts and supporting information are available for review by the Bank
supervision missions, by NAFIN, and by the external auditors, as required. Annual audits will be carried
out according to the Technical Memorandum of Understanding on Auditing (MET) dated September 28,
2000. This document was agreed by the Bank and the Secretaria de Contraloria y Desarrollo
Administrativo (SECODAM).
On an yearly basis, CONAFE and SECODAM will request the Bank's non objection to the proposed
auditor and terms of reference for the audit. The audit will be carried out according to national auditing
norms, which observe the International Standards on Auditing (ISA). As required by international
standards and best practices, annual audits will include review of processes.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
In discussing options to address the objective of providing quality basic education to all students in Mexico,
a number of alternatives were considered during the preparation of the APL. The following section
summarizes the reasons why certain alternatives were rejected in favor of the adopted approach.
Program Alternatives Considered:
(a) National project vs. restricted focus on the poorer states. Prior to PAREIB, Bank-supported
projects focused on states with higher levels of poverty. Experience with these projects shows that,
- 18 -



while giving priority attention to the poorer states simplifies targeting, disadvantaged schools and
students exist in every state, and high performing schools exist even in poor states. The improved
targeting criteria used in the APL establishes a set of poverty and education indicators to identify
schools and communities in greatest need of extra assistance, both in rural and marginalized urban
areas.
(b) Limiting focus to formal basic education vs. including non-formal modalities for initial and
post-primary education.   Informal, community-based initial education has been an important
complement to preschool programs in improving children's school readiness and eventual primary
school performance. An evaluation done in 1987 confirmed this assumption, especially among the
poor. The evaluation also indicated that initial education programs require quality improvements to
have significant impact. No changes in the educational system have occurred since 1987 to render this
finding obsolete. Furthermore, lower secondary education proved to require adjustments to best meet
the need of small rural communities. The APL combines both formal and informal modalities of
pre-primary and post-primary education with improved delivery mechanisms and pedagogic methods.
(c) General poverty focus vs. focus on indigenous children. While basic education for non-indigenous
students has significantly expanded, basic education for indigenous students requires special attention.
Bilingual education, an inter-cultural approach, the use of appropriate teaching/learning materials and
programs, and adequate pedagogical supervision, are necessary to improve the performance of
indigenous teachers and students. Special attention is also required for indigenous students attending
regular schools. The APL2 covers all primary indigenous schools and 88.2 percent of indigenous
preschools, ensuring that all these necessary elements are available to the schools.
(d)  Supply vs. demand side financing.   The PROGRESA program is successfully addressing
demand-side factors that influence educational opportunity, by proving monetary incentives to poor
families to maintain their children in school. As a result of the success of PROGRESA and of the
compensatory education programs which increased completion rates at primary school, demand for
secondary education in rural areas has been steadily increasing, making the limited access to secondary
education a binding constraint for many rural and poor students. Poor quality of education at all levels
also contributes to high dropout rates among the poor. To reverse this trend, innovative interventions
must enrich the educational environment, adequately train teachers, provide appropriate education
materials, develop supportive supervisors, and establish incentives for school-based initiatives to find
local solutions to local educational problems. The APL addresses the need to expand coverage of
lower-secondary education in rural areas through telesecundarias.
APL2 Alternatives Considered
(a) Institutional Development Fund (FDI) vs. support for Basic Education Innovation Fund within
the States. PAREIB APL 1 envisioned a National Institutional Development Fund (FDI) to finance the
best proposals presented by the states as part of the institutional development component. The FDI
consisted of a "Basic Fund," to provide technical assistance for the preparation of Strategic Plans (
Planes Rectores) by the states. This part of the fund was successfully implemented. The second part
of the FDI, consisting of a competitive fund managed by CONAFE for which the states would present
proposals for carrying out the Strategic Plans, was not successful. This competitive part of the fund
was not implemented in APLI, because not only inter-state competition proved politically
unacceptable, but more importantly, the rules to operate the Fund were excessively complicated and
lacking in important design elements (see Annex 12 for more details). As a result of discussions with
- 19-



stakeholders at the federal and state levels, APL2 will introduce substantial changes to this element of
the Program. The proposed Basic Education Innovation Fund will have simplified operating norms,
including: (a) competition within states rather than among states, (b) fewer proposals (3 per state)
focused on five specific problem areas, (c) evaluation of proposals by a high level evaluation
committee created within SEP, (d) transparent operational guidelines that clearly state the evaluation
criteria, and (e) provisions for monitoring and impact evaluation of sub-projects. CONAFE will be
responsible for the financial management of the fund, while SEP will respond for its technical aspects.
The "Request for Proposals" as well and the Operating Norms of the Fund will be published as part of
the Project Operations Manual.
(b) Rural Poverty Focus vs. Rural/Urban Poverty Focus. Although APLI intended to include
interventions targeted to the 25 poorest primary students in marginal urban areas, the urgent need to
reallocate funds to expand rural secondary education limited the scope of this element of the Program.
APL2 will give special attention to providing the poorest schools in small urban communities with
quality improvements that lead to better education outcomes. In addition, APL2 will support a study of
Mexico City poorest and most educationally backward schools, designed to prepare a strategy to
improve disadvantaged schools in metropolitan areas.
(c) Fragmented vs. Integrated Compensatory Education Programs. Financially and organizationally,
integrating compensatory education programs has been an important Program objective since its
inception. However, APL1 was implemented still under a fragmentary structure. APL2 will provide
the first opportunity to apply this strategic priority nationwide, by integrating the organization and
finances of the programs. CONAFE will take care to monitor and evaluate this process, making
periodic adjustments as needed, to increase the probability of success of the integrated approach.
-20-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Equity in primary education      Primary Education I (PARE),     HS           HS
(Ln. 3407-ME effective
12/11/1991 and closed
06/30/1997), aimed at
improving the quality and
efficiency of primary education
in the four states with the
highest incidence of poverty.
(ICR Report No. 17303)
Equity in initial education      Initial Education Project        S            S
(PRODEI), (Ln. 3518-ME
effective 08/12/1993 and closed
06/30/1997) Objectives
included preparing children of
poorest families for school,
educating parents in child-
rearing practices, and
strengthening institutional
capacity to formulate and
evaluate policies in initial
education while improving the
quality of primary education in
the 14 states with the highest
incidence of poverty. (An ICR
was prepared for PRODEI:
No. 17192.)
Equity and efficiency in primary  PAREB, (Ln. 3722-ME,            S            S
education                        effective 09/30/1994 closing
date 12/31/2001) covering the
poorest and most educationally
backward communities in 14
states. In 1997, the PRODEI
and PAREB projects were
consolidated into one. The ICR
for the consolidated project is
under preparation.
Equity and Efficiency in Basic   PAREIB Phase I (APL1) (Ln.       S            S
- 21 -



Education (initial, preschool, primary  4333-ME effective 06/29/1999;
and lower-secondary education)    closing date 12/31/2001). An
evaluation by the Government
was prepared, and the ICR is
under preparation. PAREIB-I
aimed at improving coverage
and quality of basic education
(initial, preschool, primary, and
lower-secondary education).
Protection of social services     Program of Essential Social       S            S
directed to the poor              Services (PROSSE), (Ln.
3912-ME effective 07/06/1995
closed 06/30/1998), in response
to the 1995 economic crisis, this
project aimed at protecting
essential social services for the
poor, strengthening existing
social safety nets, and
establishing the base for
measuring and implementing
efficiency gains in the social
sector. (see ICR No. 18850 of
January 22, 1999).
Other development agencies
Equity in primary education       PIARE, IDB-funded in parallel
to PAREB, with similar
objectives, covering 17 other
states. This project will not
have a follow on, as PAREIB
APL2 will cover primary
schools all 31 states.
Improving quality in lower secondary  Distance Education project,
education                         IDB-funded, to increase
access for students at the
lower-secondary level using
various modalities. This project
was cancelled. The APL
interventions designed to
improve lower secondary
education (telesecundaria),
partly compensate for the
cancellation of this project.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 22 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
APL2 incorporates the lessons learned from APLI, from prior education projects in Mexico, and from
education projects with similar objectives elsewhere in Latin America. The most important lessons learned
during the implementation of APLI are the following:
The APL instrument is especially well suited for achieving program objectives that require long term
investments, such as improvement in the quality of basic education. This is so, because the APL
favors the maintenance of an overall policy framework that helps sustain program activities over time
and favors periodic evaluations of partial achievements during the program implementation. In fact,
the APL shows that working within an overall policy framework is crucial for the success of the
project. The Mexican government is very much supportive of the use of this lending instrument for
selected sectors. In particular, the government values the flexibility afforded by the instrument, and
recognizes the benefits of incorporating in subsequent APL phases, the lessons learned from the first
earlier phases. The use of the APL instrument in Mexico also taught the important lesson that triggers
should be few in number, centered in important outcomes that can be meaningfully measured, and on
policy advances that are central to the development objectives of the program. This type of triggers
should replace the rather long array of indicators covering delivery of program inputs.
Teacher Training. The APLI (as well as previous education projects in Mexico), supported
in-service teacher training, through large national/regional courses. APL1 helped identify the
shortcoming of this strategy: by taking teachers out of the classroom to attend national/regional
courses, the training program failed to provide sufficient improvement in the classroom performance of
teachers. It became clear that teachers need "hands-on" technical assistance to help them apply the
skills acquired in pre-service and in-service training courses to the particular situation of the
classrooms where they work. In other words, only in-service teacher training combined with
classroom-based technical assistance can produce lasting teaching/learning results. A Bank study
conducted in poor communities in four states in 2000, shows that teachers demand and benefit from
direct technical assistance at the school level. Applying this lesson, APL2 supports a Network for
Education Quality in Primary School. This network is staffed with specialized primary teachers
(technical pedagogic assistants) who visit schools several times during the year, to help teachers resolve
teaching and learning problems in the classroom, while at the same time, assisting them in establish a
continuous performance evaluation program based on student learning achievements measured at the
beginning and at the end of the school year. The Network will operate for all targeted primary schools
and employ approximately 5,306 technical pedagogic assistants (ATPs).
Teacher Training. The second lesson regarding teacher training, is particular important for teachers
serving the poorest schools. For those teachers, certain key courses need to be available on a
continuous basis, notably courses on multi-grade pedagogic techniques, and courses dealing with
inter-cultural and bilingual education. This is so, because the rate of rotation of teachers serving the
poorest schools continues to be high, even though teacher performance incentives has significantly
reduced rotation. This lesson has been applied in APL2, through the support of Teacher's Resource
Centers (Centros de Maestros y Recursos - CMRs). These are "resource centers" located near the
target schools, that function as outreach training facilities where distance training courses and
materials are available year-round for teachers to take advantage of, according to their time availability
and interest.
Education Federalism. Mexico has decentralized to the states the function of providing universal
basic education since 1992. PARE, PAREB and APL1 have supported this decentralization policy
- 23 -



with technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the states to deliver both regular and
compensatory education programs. The experience of APL1 in this respect, taught two important
lessons. First, technical assistance should be directed at certain key policy reforms, such as integration
of the administration of basic education, and rationalization of operations through the elimination of
functional duplication at state level. Second, allowing the states to seek assistance from the federal
level to address their specific problems is useful, but very often is side-tracked into simply providing
additional funding for routine administrative functions. In other words, instituting a demand driven
mechanism is not enough to efficiently foster education federalism. Instead, it is important to provide
incentives at the state level to generate innovation, thereby national program can be appropriately
adjusted to the state context, reinforcing the fact that the states are indeed responsible for the education
outcomes within their borders. The revised design of the Basic Education Innovation Fund will
accomplish this purpose in APL2.
School autonomy and community participation. The initiative of supporting the establishment of
parents associations in primary schools were started by CONAFE prior to the APL, in 1995, with
2,500 pilot rural primary schools.  Subsequent studies of effective schools in Mexico, confirmed the
importance of this instrument to strengthen school autonomy, which in turn, tends to improve the
quality of education. This is an interesting and unusual development in a country where, until quite
recently, all education decisions were taken centrally. Based on the experience of PAREB and APLI,
Parents Associations are now operating in all primary schools targeted by the compensatory education
program, and their functions and decision-making role in the schools is expanding. Parents Association
manage school funds to carryout routine school maintenance and complement the supply of basic
materials, very frequently the Associations also execute school infrastructure improvements under
contract with CONAFE. They participate in the School Council where they contribute to the planning
and administration of the school, along with the director and the teachers. Parents are systematically
informed of the progress of their children, first in qualitative terms and under APL2 on the basis of
actual learning achievement measures. In APL2, this initiative will be expanded to the 15,322
preschools supported by the program.
Pilot Programs. The basis of successful pilot programs seems to be the availability of pertinent
research findings to orient the selection of appropriate intervention which the pilot will test, as well an
the necessary institutional base to carry out the pilot. It is not enough to identify a pressing problem.
For example, while the problem of street children who are not working or attending school in marginal
urban areas is an acute, a pilot program to address their needs (planned for APLl) did not succeed
without the necessary research and institutional bases. Clearly, it is not advisable to "jump into action"
without a defined program design and implementation mechanisms. At a minimum, the failed
experience in APLI to implement the pilot for children age 9-14 children in urban marginal areas,
served to highlight to SEP the importance of the theme. Street children now command a key place
within SEP's program, not only through the creation of a special committee to address the problem, but
also as part of the National Education Program for the current Administration. APL2 will build upon
this experience, by supporting a study of basic education in marginalized areas of Mexico City, with
the goal of identifying specific interventions that will help retain poor urban children in school and
improve the quality of education they receive.
Poverty and Monitoring and Evaluation. The relationship between education and income in Mexico,
as elsewhere, is positive. Economic rates of returns are positive for all levels, even after a significant
expansion of the education system. Given the strong emphasis on poverty alleviation in Mexico, the
Bank regularly monitors the relationship between education and incidence of poverty. Systematically,
education attainment exerts a very powerful negative effect on the probability of being poor. Every
- 24 -



year of additional education decreases by 5 percent the chance of an individual to be classified as poor.
Now that Mexico has reached a good coverage at the primary education level, the focus of priority
investment in the sector is, at the margin, to increase quality of primary education but also coverage
and quality of preschool and lower secondary education. This is a central objective of APL2.
Achievement and sustainability of organizational and operational changes require continuous
reinforcement of ownership and participation throughout project design and implementation.
Experience from APL1 shows the importance of incorporating all key players (SEP, CONAFE,
SEPEs, parents, among others), involved in the program. SEP and CONAFE took leading roles in the
preparation of the APL and both have remained actively involved in monitoring, assessing progress and
adjusting its design. Support for parents' participation in key aspects of school management during
APL1 was highly successful both in empowering parents and in improving the accountability of
teachers to the communities in which they work.
Effective targeting mechanisms must be precise.  APL1 introduced more precise targeting
mechanisms than had been previously used, based on experience where state-level data aggregation
hide impoverished localities and caused leakage of benefits to non-poor communities. APL1 has
further refined these mechanisms, permitting identification of targeted schools through a set of
indicators (using school characteristics as well as income level of the area) in rural and urban areas.
Nevertheless, because of the fragmentation of funding and administration of the compensatory
education program during APLI, the full adoption of this improved targeting mechanism was not
completely achieved due to the fragmentation of the programs.  APL2 will use the targeting
mechanisms developed under APLl in the entire country, providing the first opportunity to systematize
targeting. In monitoring the implementation of APL2, CONAFE will further assess the effectiveness
and equity of these targeting mechanisms.
Effective targeting mechanisms must provide for an exit strategy. The identification of targeted
schools measured on the bases of key education indicators during APL1, has shown that some schools
have registered significant performance improvements, and might be approaching the stage of being
ready to graduate from the compensatory education program. During APL2 a precise graduation
criteria will be developed and applied. The graduation of schools from the program provides an unique
opportunity to test if the improvements observed are sustainable in the absence of the additional
support provided by the program. Thus, the graduated schools will be closely monitored through
APL2 and APL3.
The synergy of key inputs and factors of student success produces a significant impact.
Evaluation of the PARE and PAREB experiences shows that, while each of the important inputs
(consistent teacher attendance, adequately trained teachers, adequate supervision, availability of
appropriate textbooks and materials, and participation in initial and preschool education) improves
learning outcomes, the combination of all of critical inputs in a single school markedly increases
student achievement beyond the effect to be expected from an aggregation of the effect of each input.
This finding highlights the importance of ensuring provision of all inputs to each school, at the right
time and sequence. The implementation of APL2 provides for the close monitoring of these factors by
school.
Identification of the factors that contribute most to student learning is key. Appropriate policies
and relevant sector interventions require a capacity not only to assess student learning outcomes, but
also to identify which factors produce the best results, and which interventions are most effective in
ensuring the presence of those factors. While the diagnostic capabilities of states and central units have
- 25 -



improved, they require continued attention, particularly in the poorest states. APL2 will strengthen the
capacity to evaluate learning outcomes at the federal and state levels, and most importantly, will
provide for the systematic dissemination of learning achievement test results at the school level.
Long-term success requires flexibility to adapt program interventions to local needs and evolving
experience. In particular, successful approaches allow for adaptation to fit the particular needs of local
contexts. APLI demonstrated the value of such flexibility. Diversity in the approaches taken by
different states contributes to enriching the learning experience of the program itself, allowing for
cross-fertilization from state to state and for the development of improved overall strategies. Within the
basic framework provided by the Government National Education Program 200-2006, APL2 will
retain the flexibility to adjust to local needs and will directly stimulate innovative policies at state level,
through the Basic Education Innovation Fund.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
A Central Technical Group (Grupo T&nico Central, or GTC) including representatives from key sector
agencies and several technical departments of SEP and CONAFE, prepared the APL Program. Similar
teamwork has marked the preparation of APL2. Program designers consulted state authorities at important
stages during program preparation; some states have established working groups to accompany the design
process. APL2 also reflects both the education priorities of the new Administration and the full ownership
of the Program by the new officials, as indicated in the Policy Letter presented in Attachment 1.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has contributed both technically and financially to the evolution of Mexican compensatory
education since the early 1990s. The lessons of each project have been incorporated in successive projects,
and the Bank has been able to learn from experiences in other countries, many of which have adapted the
Mexican strategies to their own context.  The proposed APL2 represents a critical step toward
consolidation of many dispersed efforts under one umbrella, with an integrated and coherent approach
throughout. In addition, the Bank's continued support will help ensure continuity and would enhance
institutional memory at a time of government transition.  The Bank's collaborative approach with
SEP/CONAFE and SEPEs in program design, has increased dialogue and cooperation at many institutional
levels.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
An estimate of the economic rate of return to the Program conducted during the preparation of the APL,
found that the private return to basic education was 18.2 percent, and the social return was 17.5 percent.
These were considered lower-bound results, as the analysis did not attempt to quantify the externalities of
basic education. In addition, an estimate of the impact and cost-effectiveness of the PARE program (the
first Bank project supporting compensatory basic education in Mexico, implemented in 1991-1997) found
that the program significantly improved student achievement, in schools receiving the intended complement
of inputs; indigenous schools received an even larger benefit. The range of improvement in test scores for
rural students was from 19 to 38 percent, while for indigenous students scores increased by between 45 to
90 percent. In addition, the probability of dropping out was 20 percent lower for students covered by the
program, even for those student that received only some of the benefits. Considering only the improvement
-26 -



in test scores (using the maximum increase derived from the program), the benefit cost ratio for the
indigenous population was 137:100; the equivalent ratio for the population of rural students was 58:100.
Since several of the PARE interventions have now been absorbed into the regular education programs, the
contribution of the program has become more difficult to quantify, though perhaps it has grown more
significant and sustainable.
The Bank adjusted APLI early on to address the increase in demand for lower secondary education
resulting partly from the impact of both the PAREB and PAREIB programs (in increasing the completion
rate at primary level among rural and indigenous populations) and partly from the success of PROGRESA
(in directly stimulating the demand for lower secondary education through the provision of monetary
incentives to poor families). Confirmation of the benefits accruing to students who complete basic
education appears in the report "Mexico: Eamings Distribution after Mexico's Economic and Education
Reforms" (No. 19945-ME dated May 16, 2000), which notes that "the implication from the rates of returns
to education and the benefit-incidence analysis is that the government should allocate more resources and
improve the use of those resources in basic education. It was shown that at this level of instruction,
education is working to reduce inequality" (Vol. I, page 4). APL2 is designed to consolidate the
interventions undertaken in earlier programs with a view to achieving the synergy that result in higher
benefit to cost ratios.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Previous Bank experience with CONAFE indicates that generally acceptable systems are in place. An
assessment of the financial management capacity of CONAFE was completed; APL2 incorporates
recommendations from the assessment. During initial implementation of APL2, CONAFE will enhance its
Financial Management System to operate to produce regular PMRs.
Fiscal Impact:
The table below shows the historical and projected federal expenditures on basic education relative to total
federal expenditures and GDP.
Expenditures in Education as a Share of GDP and Federal Expenditures
Federal         Total
Expenditures in  Programmable  Share of Basic     GDP           Share of
Fiscal Year  Basic Education    Federal       Education    (MXN$ billion)  Basic Education
(MXN$ billion)  Expenditures
(MXN$ billion)
1993           25.7           207.3          12.4%          1,256.2         2.0%
1994           33.7           249.9          13.5%          1,420.2         2.4%
1995           40.5           290.2          13.9%          1,837.0         2.2%
1996           54.3           404.1          13.4%          2,525.6         2.2%
1997           71.8           526.9          13.6%          3,174.3         2.3%
1998           101.3          600.0          16.9%          3,846.4         2.6%
1999           119.5          710.5          16.8%          4,583.8         2.6%
2000 (*)        144.7          863.7          16.8%          5,432.4         2.7%
2001 (*)        163.0          881.7          18.5%          5,688.5         2.9%
(*)Projections subject to reviews.
Expenditure on basic education is expected to grow in the next several years, to meet the increased demand
for secondary education. To the extent that enrollments at the secondary level continue to rise, these
- 27 -



expenditures may grow even further. Investment and recurrent expenditures resulting from the project
appear in the table below:
Project Costs as a Share of Federal Budget in Basic Education
Fiscal Year     Federal Expenditures in                      Project Costs as % of
Basic Education (MXN$ Of which Project Costs Federal Expenditures in
billion)           (MXN$ billion)      Basic Education
2002                  180.6                 2.58                  1.43
2003                  199.1                 2.60                  1.31
2004                  217.4                 2.60                  1.20
2005                  235.2                 2.60                  1.11
2006                  247.0                0.96 (*)               0.39
(7 Recurrent costs, or 37% of estimated total project costs.
Assuming that recurrent costs (37 percent of total project costs) continue beyond Program implementation
period, covering replacement of didactic materials, infrastructure maintenance, incentives programs, inter
alia, recurrent costs would amount to about MXN $ 0.96 billion per year,. or 0.39% of projected total
federal expenditures in basic education for 2006. Neither the counterpart fund requirements nor the
incremental recurrent costs are likely to impose a significant fiscal burden.
3. Technical:
Recently improved operational manuals are in effect in all states. The integration of the compensatory
education programs faced no technical problems, and none are anticipated. These manuals provide for
environmental guidelines for the execution of infrastructure works, satisfactory to the Bank.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
a. Executing agencies: SEP, CONAFE, SEPEs
b. Project management: CONAFE
4.2 Project management:
CONAFE has extensive experience with Bank- and IDB-financed projects and, through its UCEs in all 31
states, will assist the SEPEs with procurement and the preparation of annual work plans. Rather than
adopting a traditional, centrally-driven institutional strengthening approach, the APL uses a demand-side
approach to institutional development initiatives targeted to a few priority institutional reform areas. Under
the program, states develop yearly operational plans, which the states discuss with SEP/CONAFE, thereby
providing an opportunity to review and strengthen their capacity to operate compensatory programs.
4.3 Procurement issues:
CONAFE has received sustained technical assistance from the Bank on procurement procedures. In 2000,
an ex-post procurement assessment was carried out, indicating that CONAFE's central procurement
capacity is satisfactory, and that CONAFE performance in the procurement of computers exemplifies best
practice in the Latin American and Caribbean Region. Improvements were made to the technical
specifications for procurement of student educational materials, for use in APL2; bulk purchases were
successfully carried out in APLI allowing for cost savings, and will continue in APL2. The PAREB
project and APL1 are part of the experimental initiative of Internet Procurement Mechanism (Sistema
- 28 -



Electronico de Contrataciones Gubernamentales - COMPRANET) launched by the SECODAM;
CONAFE staff in Chiapas and Veracruz received special training to participate in this pilot.  The
assessment also shows that CONAFE needs to continue strengthening state-level procurement capacity
through periodic training of local officials to achieve sustained improvements. CONAFE has also
developed a systematic training program for all the CONAFE delegations and UCEs. APL2 will continue
this training program.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Independent consultants conducted a financial management assessment (FM) of CONAFE during the
preparation of the APL2. This assessment produced satisfactory results and confirmed that CONAFE's
financial management unit has adequate skills and functional organization. CONAFE's performance under
APLI and in prior projects has also been satisfactory. Through the continued provision of technical
assistance to CONAFE in this area, the Bank has ascertained that the financial management information
system put in place during APL1 is satisfactory at central and state levels. This system will be further
enhanced during APL2 to support the production of PMvRs in accordance with Bank guidelines.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
This project poses no significant environmental issues. New construction in new sites is marginalized from
the project. The Project Operational Manual provides for: (i) proper exclusion of new construction; (ii)
consideration of basic design specifications; and, (iii) environmental rules for contractors that exclude
materials such as asbestos and lead paint, or scarce timber sources, and provide for proper solid and liquid
waste disposal.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The Project Operational Manual includes a description of the collaboration mechanisms with States, School
Councils, Parent School Associations and municipalities, as well as technical guidelines.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
- 29 -



N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Indigenous education is a social development issue, both considering that 20 percent of the direct
beneficiaries of APL2 are indigenous children, and in terms of their poverty level. In preparation for the
APL social, institutional, and education constraints to indigenous education were analyzed, and
consultations were made with state and local governments, NOGs, and direct indigenous beneficiaries. The
Mexico Indigenous Profiles studies corroborated these findings. Lessons learned from previous projects
and results of the analyses for the APL, are incorporated in the design of APL2. The monitoring and
evaluation system for APL2 includes specific indicators for indigenous education, as shown in Annex 1.
The analysis of the impact of compensatory education programs in indigenous education, presented in
Annex 11, shows that the Program is advancing in the right direction, as indigenous students are improving
at a faster rate than non-indigenous students in terms of learning achievements in primary school.
A social assessment carried out during the preparation of the APL, concluded that the activities proposed
for the Program are consistent with the Government's policy for compensatory programs for the indigenous
population, and meet the expressed needs of indigenous children, as expressed in interviews with a sample
of beneficiaries. A second beneficiary assessment, carried out during the implementation of APLI,
confirmed the adequacy of Program strategies. Indigenous communities and schools benefit more than
proportionally from the Program interventions. Several initiatives piloted under APLI have now been
incorporated in the regular education program (examples of such successful pilots include: inter-cultural
program for indigenous children in general schools, the program for migrant children, and the
community-based posprimaria program). The design of APL2 continues these same strategies which are
fully satisfactory in relation to the Bank's safeguard policies for Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20). APL2 key
indicators are designed to show the impact of the program in indigenous schools. APL2 targets all
indigenous primary schools and 52 percent of all preschool children covered by the Program as indigenous.
Approximately 27 percent of the total cost of APL2 corresponds to expenditures for indigenous schools,
while indigenous students who are direct beneficiaries of the program are 20 percent of the total number of
students covered under APL2. The Government has prepared an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
(IPDP) which will be disseminated in Mexico and through the World Bank prior to Negotiations.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The Program promotes increased participation of civil society and education officials at various levels and
in every state. The Proyectos Escolares, piloted in APL1 and now generalized to all public primary
schools, encourage and reward initiative at the school level, as each school prepares its own development
proposals. Support to Parents School Associations (Apoyo a la Gesti6n Escolar - AGE) has been
successful in increasing parents' involvement in the education of their children and in the management of
schools. These efforts have given parents a sense of ownership and a degree of control over the education
of their children. Both supervisors and teachers pro-actively define training needs and design training and
technical assistance programs to meet the need of each school.
Results of the beneficiary surveys in part guided Program design. These surveys directly guided pilot
programs, such as schooling for migrant children and indigenous children in general schools. As noted
above, these pilot programs had successful results and, for the most part, are now incorporated into the
regular education system. Several other components and activities grew from the direct experience of
- 30 -



ongoing projects (e.g., Proyectos Escolares, the community participation model for school infrastructure,
the model for parents' association participation in schools), and, in general, beneficiary reaction to these
activities has been favorable.
At the institutional level, participation and collaboration among the various departments of SEP and
CONAFE, significantly improved the Mexican compensatory education programs. Examples of these
include:
(a) A more comprehensive approach to compensatory education that addresses the needs of disadvantaged
students at all levels of initial and basic education in rural and marginalized urban areas,
(b) Improved targeting mechanisms for compensatory programs,
(c) Increased involvement of the SEPEs in the design and operation of compensatory programs at state
level, leading to programs that are more responsive to local needs, and
(d) Renewed emphasis on evaluation of learning outcomes and closer links between evaluation results and
program planning.
APL2 consolidates Program adjustments based on these lessons.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The preparation of the APL included consultation with a large cross-section of stakeholders as part of the
social assessment, and their input was considered in the APL design. Consulted stakeholders include, inter
alia: (a) CONAFE staff, supervisors and teachers, (b) staff of SEPEs, (c) principals, teachers and
supervisors of the system of indigenous education of SEP, (d) parents and students under both CONAFE
and SEP systems, (e) representatives of the teacher union, (f) specialists and experts on indigenous,
inter-cultural, and bilingual education, (g) members of indigenous community-based organization including
teachers, linguists, medical doctors, anthropologists, etc., (h) representatives of local education NGOs, and
(i) the only elected indigenous Senator in Mexico.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The organizational and financial integration of compensatory programs at federal and state levels ensures
higher levels of efficiency by eliminating duplication of administrative structures nationwide. APL2 gives
the state units of CONAFE (UCEs) the operational responsibility at the state level and the mandate to act
as the main link with the state educational authorities, ensuring the continuous participation of the SEPEs.
CONAFE will closely monitor the institutional reforms introduced in APL2 to allow for periodic
adjustments in response to local needs, and to promote the continuous strengthening of the local managerial
capacity to operate compensatory programs.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Throughout implementation of APL2, CONAFE/SEP will monitor the performance of the project in terms
of its social development outcomes, through key education indicators that measure project outcomes for
different target groups.
- 31 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          O Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The targeting mechanism for compensatory programs used in APL2 ensures coverage of all primary
schools classified as indigenous (schools located in communities with a school population that is 80 percent
or more indigenous). And the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan for the project, specifies the particular
interventions that will be implemented to improve education outcomes of indigenous students.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of Bank-financed education projects in Mexico, including APLl, has been demonstrated
by the fact that successful interventions under these projects have been incorporated into regular
educational programs by SEP and sub-national governments at state and municipal levels. For example:
(a) the production and distribution of indigenous textbooks and materials is now available to all indigenous
schools through the General Directorate of Indigenous Education (DGEI); (b) SEP has mainstreamed the
regional didactic materials, free textbooks and classroom libraries to all primary and lower secondary
schools; (c) innovative models tested in APL1 have been generalized, as for example the model for
inter-cultural programs for indigenous children in regular schools, the model for the migrant children's
program, and the postprimaria model of lower-secondary education for small rural communities which are
now being carried out nationwide by the DGEI, SEP, and CONAFE, respectively. The SEPEs in several
states have begun to undertake their own compensatory programs, and several municipalities now finance
additional community instructors for initial education. This process is expected to continue under ALP2,
as the effectiveness of specific interventions is demonstrated and as the process of decentralization
increasingly devolves responsibility to the states. In addition, the active involvement of stakeholders at
various levels of the planning and operation of the program, helps ensure that new or modified activities
will be continued after the end of APL3. At the community and school levels, the success of parental
involvement in primary education through the AGEs and their central role in the initial and preschool
education programs, has given parents a greater awareness of their role in the education of their children,
which bodes well for their continued participation.  The direct management of funds for school
maintenance, infrastructure improvements, purchase of equipment or materials, by subnational
governments, local community groups, and parents' associations gives many local stakeholders a sense of
empowerment that will contribute to the sustainability of the program as a whole.
Educational resources have been consistently provided by the Government. Both the National Agreement
- 32 -



for Modernization of Basic Education (Acuerdo Nacional para la Modernizacion de la Educaci6n Basica,
ANMEB, 1992) and the General Education Law of 1993 (Ley General de Educaci6n - LGE) stipulate the
allocation of increasing budgetary resources to public education, including compensatory programs that are
partially financed with external funds. The Government's commitment to maintain this historical trend,
manifested in the new National Education Program - 2001-2006, is a reassuring indication of the
sustainability of the Program.
Substantive improvements in educational systems is a long-term cultural change process. The preparation
and approval of the 9-year PAREIB Program is a clear indication that the Mexican government is
committed to give first priority to investment in human capital targeted to the poor.  The new
Administration has demonstrated its support for the Program as an effective instrument to reduce poverty
through the expansion of quality educational opportunities for the most disadvantaged children.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Policy framework for compensatory         N         Continuous close dialogue with Government;
programs maintained                                 demonstrated success of compensatory
programs is the most convincing reason for
continuing the framework.
Continuity in government policies and     N         APL2 was prepared during the first year of the
priorities                                          new Administration's six-year term and is
consistent with the Government overall social
development plan, and explicitly supported by
the National Education Program 2000-2006.
Government policies continue to support   N         Decentralization and local empowerment are a
local empowerment                                   central part of the Government's strategy. The
SEPEs' increasingly active participation during
APLl has gained momentum, as did parents'
involvement at the school level. This trend will
be strengthened during APL2.
From Components to Outputs
Close coordination between federal and    N         Program operations are left mostly to the states,
state agencies involved                             with CONAFE playing a supportive, facilitating
role, in accordance with the federal normative
guidelines provided by SEP.
Systematic evaluation of Program          M         Adequate evaluation budgets to support and
outcomes guides Program adjustments and             expand the national evaluation system,
ensures adequate response to local needs            systematic analysis of education indicators, and
periodical external evaluations are tested and
proven effective. Systematic dissemination of
evaluation results of student's achievements,
will be carried out during APL2.
States receive adequate support during    M         Demand-driven technical assistance provided to
program implementation                              the SEPEs during Program implementation
consolidates and further develops the
institutional capacity of the states to innovate,
- 33 -



plan, program, budget, and deliver basic
education services and promote stronger
linkages with local authorities and communities.
Teaching and supervisory staff receiving  M         Classroom-centered technical assistance and
technical assistance, training and                  participatory training methods widely applied
incentives, apply newly acquired                    and supported by technical teams organized in
knowledge and skills to the classroom               integrated supervision zones will be tested under
APL2.
Key stakeholders support Program           N        Extensive involvement of stakeholders
activities                                          throughout project design and implementation is
in place at the school level through the AGEs
and Proyectos Escolares; at state level, through
the active participation of SEPEs in the design
and operation of Program activities; and, at the
federal level, through the leading role of SEP's
SEByN.
Overall Risk Rating                        N
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) The technical criteria and general guidelines governing the contracts for civil works, satisfactory to
the Bank, have been adopted by CONAFE;
(b) The standard agreement between CONAFE and Municipal Governments, School Councils, Parents
Associations, and States for the execution of civil works, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted
by CONAFE;
(c)  The standard participation agreement between CONAFE and States, for the implementation of the
project, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by CONAFE;
(c)  The Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by CONAFE and put into
effect.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a) Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be issued quarterly, starting 45 days after the first full
quarter after loan effectiveness,
- 34 -



(b) Project implementation is carried out in accordance with an Operational Manual,
(c) Project monitoring during project implementation, and impact evaluation upon project completion is
carried out, and
(d) A plan to ensure the continued achievement of the Project's objectives, satisfactory to the Bank, is
prepared six (6) month prior to the Closing Date.
H. Readiness for Implementation
LI 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
-1] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
H 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Fl 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Eduardo Velez B~tilo             c(DEP H I       T1.iLL)                         /
Eduardo Velez Bustillo     (f     Ana-Maria Arriagada              Olivier Lafurcade
Team Leader                       Sector Director                  Country Director
- 35 -



Attachment 1 (Translated from the Spanish original)
UNDER-SECRETARY FOR PLANNING
AND COORDINATION
Ref. No. SPC/217/2001
Mexico City, September 3, 2001
MR. OLIVIER LAFOURCADE
DIRECTOR
MEXICO DEPARTMENT
WORLD BANK
Dear Mr. Lafourcade:
I am pleased to send you my regards and to describe in this document the educational policies of the
Government of Mexico in the context of the Adjustable Program Lending (the "Program7) to be financed
with national resources and a World Bank loan. The purpose of the loan is to support the educational
reform process being carried out by the Government of Mexico through the Secretariat of Public Education
(SEP) and the National Educational Development Council (CONAFE).
GENERAL POLICY
1.     The Mexican Government has determined to made education the great national project. Education
is a fundamental factor for the development of the country and for capitalizing. the opportunities of progress
for people, families, and the entire society. Economic globalization and the shift towards knowledge
societies in the world forces us to redouble our efforts.
2.     The Political Constitution of the United States of Mexico establishes, in its Third Article, that
every individual has a right to education. It also establishes the obligation of the State to provide basic
education that is free and secular. The General Education Law is explicit in giving education authorities, at
federal and state levels, the responsibility for generating conditions that enable the full exercise of this right.
For this, it is necessary that specific actions be taken in favor of education equity. These must preferably
be directed to groups and regions that are more educationally disadvantaged or that face difficult economic
and social conditions. For this purpose, the Law adds to the regular educational activities other actions to
support compensatory education programs, "whereby (the Executive Branch of Government) supports with
additional resources the government of more disadvantaged states."
3.     The National Education Program (PNE) for the 2001-2006 period, in the section on basic
education, establishes the following basic objectives:
a) Ensure equal opportunities of access, permanence, and educational achievement in basic education
for all children and youth in the country:
- 36 -



b) Guarantee for every child and youth enrolled in basic education the opportunity to gain basic
knowledge and to develop intellectual abilities, values and attitudes needed to achieve full personal
and family lives, behave as competent and committed citizens, participate in productive work, and
continue to learn throughout their lives: and,
c) Reform the education system at federal and state levels in order to ensure effectiveness in the
design and practice of these policies, provide for their continuous evaluation, and for the efficient,
transparent and accountable use of resources, in order to focus the policy on the classroom and the
school.
The lines of action to reach these objectives are the following:
a.     Guarantee to all children and youth in the country equal opportunity of access, permanence,
and educational achievement in basic education. In order to create equitable conditions of access and
permanence in basic education, it is necessary to ensure not only a general increase in the resources
allocated to this level of education, but also to direct educational investment differentially, so that
individuals and population groups whose background places them at a disadvantage to profit from the
educational services, receive adequate material and functional resources to attend school and complete
successfully every grade of basic education: from preschool through lower-secondary. Moreover, it is
necessary to design and carryout integrated educational alternatives that are best suited to the geographic,
socioeconomic and cultural conditions of the population it serves, rather than expect the population to
adapt to the characteristics of the educational services.
This feature is specially important for individuals or social groups not attending school or abandoning
school due to factors such as distance between home and school, calendar and schedule of classes,
educational curricula, or because the pedagogic practices are less than relevant for their personal needs and
their cultural characteristics.
Besides an increase in education investment, it is necessary to implement specific and diversified
compensatory activities directed at disadvantaged individuals or social groups, to ensure that they have the
same educational opportunities as other social groups.
a.1 The compensatory function is to channel incremental resources, based on investment per student, to
the population in disadvantaged conditions and at risk of failing at school, so as to compensate for the
social and regional inequalities and to advance towards educational justice.
a.1.1. Strengthening the compensatory programs. The Undersecretariat for Basic and Normal
Education (SEByN), as the normative authority for the national basic education program, supports the
strengthening of the compensatory programs presently executed by the Consejo Nacional de Fomento
Educativo (CONAFE), especially the Basic Education Development Program (PAREIB) and the
Programa de Educaci6n, Salud y Alimentaci6n (PROGRESA) executed by the Secretariat for Social
Development (Secretaria de Desarrollo Social - SEDESOL), to ensure that these programs effectively
fulfill their objective of improving justice and equity of access, school permanence, and education
achievement for disadvantaged population groups.
During the next few years, our aim is to advance towards operational schemes that ensure that the
compensatory education programs effectively compensate for the differences in educational opportunities
that exist in the national population, through the following actions:
- 37 -



* Ensure close institutional coordination between CONAFE and SEP in order to assure
complementary and mutual support between activities and programs, as it is regularly done at state
level.
Implement the compensatory education programs in a flexible manner, promoting the active
participation of state educational authorities in the adaptation of these programs to the
characteristics and needs of the disadvantaged groups of each state.
* Establish mechanisms that ensure the effective and efficient implementation of the program and
that stimulate schools and students to overcome the disadvantages which originally caused them to
be part of the program.
* Establish permanent evaluation and monitoring mechanisms for the programs, to ensure their
adequate and effective operation.
a.2 Diversify the supply and provide for differential attention. A diversified and flexible mode of
operation is mandatory to achieve universal coverage of basic education. It is also necessary to promote
the expansion of, and strengthen, initial and preschool education for children less than five years old.
a.3 Recognition and attention to cultural and linguistic diversity. Develop the knowledge of our
multicultural reality, promote its recognition and, value the diversity which sustains our wealth as a nation.
b. Quality of process and educational achievement. Guarantee that all children and youth enrolled in
basic education gain basic knowledge, and develop their intellectual abilities, values and attitudes needed to
achieve full personal and family lives, behave as competent and committed citizens, participate in
productive work, and continue to leam throughout their lives.
b.l Strengthen and articulate basic education. Ensure the continuous renovation of the basic education
curriculum to guarantee that is is relevant and pertinent, that is is congruent with the national educational
goals, and that effective articulation exists between levels.
b.2 Citizenship formation and the culture of legality. Strengthen the educational contents and practices
that contribute to the formation of students as competent citizens, who are committed to the values of
democracy and democratic process, are respectful of legality and the rights of others, and who recognize
and value cultural diversity.
b.3 Technologies, didactic materials, audio visual, and information tools. Promote the production,
distribution and effective use, in the classroom and in the school, of printed, audio visual, and information
educational materials that are up to date, and are congruent with the curriculum; and, develop and expand
the information and communication technologies for basic education.
b.4 Initial formation and continuous professional development of teachers. Promote the formation of
teachers and their continuous development, to ensure congruence of educational contents and practices with
the objectives of basic education. Promote the academic and administrative transformation of the normal
schools to assure that the country has the basic education professionals that it requires.
Promote the professional development of teachers, ensuring a supply of teachers that is continuous,
diversified, flexible, and congruent with the national education objectives. Create the institutional
- 38 -



conditions for the formation of teachers, and provide for a system of incentives that lead to good
professional practice and recognize the merit of effective teachers.
Give effective recognition to the central function and role of teachers in the educational process, through
the creation of mechanisms that guarantee their participation in the process of policy formulation and in the
creation of pedagogic proposals for basic education.
b.5 Transformation of school management. Transform school management to ensure - through the
formation of teacher and directors, technical assistance and normative changes - that teachers and directors
in each school take the responsibility for the educational results of their students, establish collaborative
relations among themselves and the community, and are committed to the continuous improvement of the
quality and equity of education.
b.6 Evaluation of teaching practice and education achievement. Incorporate the evaluation process as a
means to continuously ascertaining the effectiveness of teaching and the learning achievements of the
students.
c. Institutional reform. Reform the management of the education system at federal and state levels, to
ensure effectiveness in the design and implementation of the national policies; provide for their continuous
evaluation, and guarantee the efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of resources, to best
focus policy on the classroom and on the school.
c.1 Institutional management. Reform the management system to ensure the institutional, normative, and
working conditions that are necessary for the efficient operation of the schools, through evaluation,
opportune correction of deficiencies, and expansion of the decision making role of teachers and directors
with respect to school life.
c.2 Institutional efficiency. Guarantee the efficient provision of sufficient and timely resources in the
classroom and in the schools, which are necessary to ensure adequate conditions for educational work
c.3 Educational federalsm. Promote an authentic federalism that allows for the construction of a shared
vision regarding the educational challenges facing the country, and establish the mechanisms for dialogue,
consensus, commitment, and agreements with the states to reach the national goals.
c.4 Monitoring and evaluation. Evaluate and monitor student's learning progress, their regional and
social distribution, and the factors that influence the results, so as to provide a basis for policy and decision
making directed at improving the quality and equity of basic education.
c.5 Social participation. Effectively promote social participation through the design and implementation of
mechanisms conducive to reflection and dialogue among all social actors, especially the mothers and
fathers of students, with the aim of democratizing decision making and strengthening co-responsibility in
the educational task.
c.6 Accountability. To be accountable to society with respect to the implementation of policies, and the
results of educational activities, with emphasis in the equity and quality of learning achievements, and in
the use of resources allocated to the education sector.
c.7 Research and education innovation. Promote the development of education research, taking research
- 39 -



results as a fundamental input in decision making and policy formulation, and promote innovation in the
education sector.
c.8 Organization and Operations Development. Transform the SEByN into an organization that is
flexible, effective, and capable of evolution, through new management practices and internal operations
evaluation, in order to guarantee the satisfactory operation of the sector's basic and normal education
program.
4.     During the last nine years five compensatory education programs were implemented with the
support of the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank These programs aim to overcome
the effects of educational disadvantages in rural marginal areas and comprise: Programa para Abatir el
Rezago Educativo (Primary Education I Project - PARE), Programa para Abatir el Rezago en la
Educaci6n Baisica (Primary Education II Project - PAREB), Programa Integral para Abatir el Rezago
Educativo (Integrated Basic Education Project - PIARE), Programa para Abatir el Rezago de la
Educaci6n Inicial y Basica (Basic Education Development Project -PAREIB).
5.    In absolute terms, during the last five years, these compensatory programs benefited approximately
5 million children including children less than four years and children attending 45,000 primary schools,
including all indigenous primary schools.
6.     The compensatory education programs have made possible the improvement of school attendance,
learning achievements, and completion rates among the children served. The Federal Government policy
must continue to support the regions of the country that experience more acute educational and social
disadvantages, within its financial means, until the education indicators of these regions improve
considerably.
7.     Education resources. Both the National Agreement for the Modernization of Basic Education (
Acuerdo Nacional para la Modernizaci6n de la Educaci6n Baisica, ANMEB, 1992) and the General
Education Law (Ley General de Educaci6n, LGE, 1993), recognize the need to allocate additional
budgetary resources to public education. In the year 2000, total education expenditures (public and
private) reached 6.1% of the GDP, and federal education expenditure represented 35.4% of the federal
programmable expenditure. In 2001, federal education expenditure is estimated to represent 4.5% of GDP
and 37.8% of the federal programmable expenditure.
When external financing for the education programs were exhausted, resources from the regular national
budget were used with the objective of ensuring the continuity of activities. The high priority given by the
Federal Government to education is reflected in the increased share of the educational budget in the total
federal budget.
8.    In addition to the compensatory education programs supported by the Federal Government, the
states and municipalities, consistent with the educational federalism, have increased their budgetary
allocations for education. Federalism has meant the responsible and committed participation of state
governments, contributing to higher efficiency in the system and to the improvement of the quality of
education.
B. SPECIFIC ASPECTS
1.     Program Objectives. The overall objective of the Program is to improve the quality of education
services, helping to give the population between the ages of 0 and 14 years, residing in socially and
- 40 -



educationally disadvantaged areas, the conditions to attend and successfully conclude the basic education
cycle. To this end, the Program seeks to expand the coverage of initial education; reduce preschool dropout
rates; diminish failure, repetition and dropout rates in primary and lower-secondary levels; raise completion
rates for basic education, and reduce the existing gap in learning achievements between the least privileged
groups and the rest of the school population.
2.     To achieve these objectives, the Program supports several innovations. First, the Network for
Educational Quality in primary education, through which direct technical assistance will be provided to
primary teachers and directors of each primary school covered by the Program with the aim of helping
resolve specific problems, leading to improved student learning achievements. The implementation of the
Network provides for the collection of information regarding learning achievements of the students, their
educational background, determines whether they have had the benefits of initial and preschool education,
and describes the characteristics of the school. This information will be used as base to evaluate the results
of the Program.  Second, the Program envisages the extension to preschool of the benefits of the
participation of Parents Associations in school management, as has been done in primary schools since
1996. To consolidate these activities, flexible financing mechanisms are necessary in order to simplify and
adjust the resource use to local conditions. For these reasons, as in the first phase of the Program, we
consider the Adjustable Program Loan the most appropriate lending mechanism for subsequent two phases.
3.     During Phase 11 (2002-2003), the Program will support all basic education schools located in the
436 municipalities of 17 states that comprise the 250 micro-regions with the highest poverty rates, which
have been singled out by the Federal Government as deserving priority attention. With regard to basic
education schools located in the other municipalities of the 31 states, the Program will cover: (a)
indigenous preschool schools classified in the 4th and 3rd quartiles, and the remaining preschools classified
in the 4th quartile; (b) continue to support all indigenous primary schools, general primary schools in the
rural 4th, 3rd, and 2nd quartiles, and school in the 4th quartile in marginal semi-rural urban areas; and (c)
rural secondary schools (telesecundaria) classified in the 4th, 3rd, and 2nd quartiles. Moreover, initial
education services will be expanded in those targeted localities that have preschool and/or primary
education services.
4.     Three studies will be carried out to help prepare the third phase of the Program: (a) Evaluation of
the implementation of the Network for Educational Quality; (b) Creation of the Database of Students
attending primary school who benefited from initial and attended preschool education; and, (c) Diagnosis of
problems affecting basic education schools in marginalized areas of the Federal District.
5.     In addition to the activities previously described, Phase II will consolidate the national and state
system of Evaluation of Student Learning Achievements in Basic Education, and will strengthen the
national and state geographic planning systems on the basis of cartographic and geo-reference techniques.
6.     With respect to the Public Education Secretariats of the States, SEP will determnine the activities
that are eligible for federal financing within the Program. Eligibility criteria will comprise activities that
promote: better pedagogic and operational articulation of initial and basic education services, improvement
in the quality of education services, improvements in administration and management of state systems
geared to increased community participation in the school project and give basic education schools more
decision making autonomy.
7.     During Phase 1 (1998-2001) important improvements were observed. Nevertheless, it is necessary
to proceed during the second and third phases of the Program, strengthening aspects such as: the
articulation of CONAFE with the regular SEP programs, to ensure synergy and efficiency in achieving
- 41 -



national results; adjustment of the benefits received by the schools in the compensatory program that show
the most progress, compared to others; implementation of pertinent and opportune evaluations with the dual
aim of assessing the quality of the Program and serving as base to introduce modifications or adaptations
that might be necessary to improve the quality of education in the classroom and the participation of social
actors in the educational process. For these reasons, during the next few years, actions will be carried out
to correct the deficiencies observed during the first phase, with the aim to promote education innovation
through the Program. Innovation efforts have been considered in the first phase but require additional
emphasis in the subsequent phases.
8.     During Phase III (2004-2005) the Program will: continue to support targeted initial and basic
education services covered in Phase II, including all indigenous preschools and general preschools
classified in the rural 3rd quartile; promote the creation of integrated basic education schools; begin the
evaluation of the impact of initial and preschool education in student performance at primary school;
implement a strategy to disseminate the results of the Network for Education Quality in primary schools
and, depending upon the observed results and the available resources, expand the Network for Education
Quality to preschool; and expand the compensatory program to marginal urban schools in the Federal
District. In addition, during the third phase, analyses will be carried out to determine the rules thereby the
most successful schools will be phased out of the Program, in order to redirect the corresponding resources
to the least successful schools, until all Program schools have "graduated" to a level that permits then to
operate according to the regular rules of SEP.
9.     Regarding the modernization of the Supervision of Basic Education, the State Secretariats of
Public Education will be encouraged to create and develop Basic Education Supervision Zones, based on
the cartographic studies and the corresponding geographic planning analyses carried out during Phase II
and covering children age 0-14 years in the targeted areas. States that choose to create Basic Education
Supervision Zones will be supported with: training for supervisors, creation and/or systematization of
information regarding the academic history of the students, indicators and results of student learning
achievements for each zone; improvement in personnel management, and creation of Parents Associations,
among other measures.
10.    The activities of Phase III will be determined based on the results of Phase Il, the education
indicators of the schools covered by the Program, and the studies on initial education and the Network for
Education Quality, mentioned above.
Indicators to determine the target population for Phase III of the Program:
11.    Supervision and evaluation. The indicators of the Program in each of its phases will be supervised
based on different monitoring reports, education statistics, and the results of the evaluations of learning
achievements of the students carried out by SEP. The responsibility for the supervision of the Program
rests with CONAFE and the State Secretariats of Public Education. The preparation of reports provides
for visits and interviews in the schools and localities where initial education services are offered.
12.    Role of the National Educational Development Council. CONAFE is a decentralized public
service agency, with legal status and its own assets. It was created in 1971 to assemble supplementary
resources, from both national and international sources, and apply these resources to the development of
education in the country. It is subject to the Federal Law on Quasi-Government Agencies (Dependencias
Paraestatales).
13.    CONAFE was conceived to offer alternative solutions to education problems observed among
- 42 -



disadvantaged groups. The agency faces the challenge of generating ideas and actions to bring education to
the more marginalized rural areas and administer resources for educational programs in an efficient,
effective and innovative way. One of its most important achievements is the establishment of the CONAFE
model for Rural Community Education, covering preschool, primary and post-primary education; this is a
flexible and pertinent model which provides for the acquisition of knowledge, abilities, and attitudes in a
reflective and critical manner, adapted to the life style and culture of each community. CONAFE's Rural
Community Education has made possible for boys and girls and youngsters from these communities to
exercise their right to basic education.
14.    Rural Community Education covers indigenous and non-indigenous populations living in migrant
agricultural camps, and in localities of less than 500 inhabitants, which are the most disperse, isolated, and
difficult to reach communities in the country.
15.    CONAFE will be the executor of the Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Inicial y
Baisica (Basic Education Development Program - PAREIB). In its operations, CONAFE will, at all times,
abide by the norms established by the SEByN and modify its programs as determined by that agency.
SEByN is the normative agency for basic education in the country, according to the functional
responsibilities determined by the executive power.
ATTENTIVELY
EFFECTIVE SUFFRAGE, NO REELECTION
THE UNDER-SECRETARY
Ing. Jose Maria Fraustro Siller
Copied to: Lic. Lorenzo G6mez Morin, Under-Secretary for Basic and Normal Education
Lic. Carlos Marquez Perez, General Director of CONAFE
- 43 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MEXICO: Basic Education Development Phase II
Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Socially sustainable economic                       Poverty assessments
growth and development
Household surveys
Increased access to quality                         Government reports on
education for the poor                              enrollment and achievement
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:         (from Purpose to Goal)
Ensure that children 0-14                            ICR for each phase and    Other pillars of economic
years old in the poorest rural  Overall program indicators to annual evaluations during  development maintained.
and most educationally    be achieved in targeted   each phase of the program
disadvantaged communities,  schools by the year 2005:  would review progress toward Government continues to give
access to basic education, stay                     achieving program objectives. priority to improving the
in school, and successfully  * Indigenous preschool                            quality of basic education.
complete the basic education  dropout rate remains at  Historic series of indicators
cycle, through the expansion  2.1%                  measured by SEP            Government continues to give
of educational opportunities in  * Dropout rate at                             priority to compensatory
initial education (for the    indigenous primary                               education programs.
population 0-4 years), and the  schools is reduced by
improvement in the quality of  0.2% from 2. 1% to 1.9%
basic education (preschool,  * Dropout rates in no
primary and lower-secondary)  indigenous schools
for all students, including   decline as follows: (a)
indigenous children.          preschool from 4.5% to
4.4%; (b) primary school
from 2.3% to 2.1%
* Telesecundania indicators
are reduced as follows:
(a) dropout rates from
8.5% to 6.2%; (b)
repetition rates from
0.7% to 0.5%; and (c)
failure rates from 5.6% to
4.8%
* Completion rates in
indigenous primary
schools increase by 4.5%
from 79.0% to 83.5%
* Completion rates in
non-indigenous primary
schools increase by 1.4%
from 85.2% to 86.6%
* Completion rates in
telesecundarias increase
by 1.8% from 78.2% to
80.0%
* School autonomy        Number of AGEs in operation
- 44 -



increases through      in preschool and primary
improved mechanisms for schools
participation in school
management by Parents
Associations (AGEs), and
by teachers and directors
in targeted schools.
Project Development         Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                  Indicators:
Increase access to initial    * Physical indicators by the  CONAFE progress reports;  Continuity in government
education for the poorest       end of Phase II (year 2004) SEP statistics; CONAFE  policies and priorities for
children 0-4 years of age, and                         supervision visits; Bank    compensatory educational
improve the quality of basic               .            supervision missions       programs.
education (preschool, primary    * Completion rates at
and lower secondary) for           improve as follows: (a) Learning achievements test
students in the poorest 476         in indigenous primary  results for targeted primary
municipalities classified as        schools, completion  schools, disaggregated for
priority by the Federal            rates increase by 25 %, indigenous and non-
Government, and poor               from 64.2% in       indigenous schools.
students in schools ranked at       1995-1996 to 80.6% in
the bottom half of the              1002-2003; and (b) in  Completion rates for primary
education indices in the 31         non-indigenous primary targeted schools,
states of Mexico                   schools, completion  disaggregated by indigenous
rates increase by 5%,  and non-indigenous schools.
from 81.6% in
1995-1996 to 85.7% in
2002-2003.          Completion rates for primary
* Training for        and lower-secondary targeted
1,048,455 parents of schools, compared to the
children 0-4 years of national average.
age, benefitting
approximately
1,258,147 children,
of whom 9.5% are
indigenous
* Support to 15,322
schools and 24,896
teachers in preschools,
benefitting 487,957
children, of whom
52.3% are indigenous
* Expansion of School
Parents Associations in
the 15,322 preschools
targeted by the program
* Support to 37,278
schools and 162,174
teachers at primary
schools (including all
indigenous primary
schools), benefitting
4,215,473 children
* Support to 4,236
schools and 12,879
teachers in
- 45 -



telesecundarias,
benefitting 274,926
rural lower secondary
students.
Other Indicators:
* Completion of the      Progress reports and results of
database for the      the studies
evaluation of the impart
of the initial education
program
* Completion of the
evaluation study on the
implementation of the
Network for Education
Quality
* Completion of the study
on the disadvantaged
basic education schools in
the Federal District
* Evidence of availability
of adequate budget for
CONAFE's compensatory
educational programs
- 46 -



Key Perforiance        Data Collection Strategy,
-Hierarchy of Objectives'         Indicators                                         calAssumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component I. Improvement                                                      Continuity in government
of the quality of initial and                                                 policies and priorities.
basic education
Component 1.1 Infrastructure  * 16,755 educational   * SEP statistics         Targeted schools receive all
facilities (classroom and  * Assessment of usage of  programmed inputs
annexes) build and/or    targeting mechanisms
rehabilitated           * CONAFE and SEP
* 5,860 educational         supervision visits
facilities (classroom and  * CONAFE progress
annexes) equipped         reports
* 34 teacher training     * Bank supervision
centers rehabilitated and  missions
equipped
Component 1.2 Didactic      * 1,048,455 initial
Materials                     education didactic
materials for parents and
promoters of initial
education
* 3,255,753 didactic
materials packages for
primary school students
and schools
* 4,236 telesecondary
schools provided with
computers and software
Component 1.3 Training     * 1,048,455 parents of
children 0-4 years of age
are trained
* 42,423 promoters and
7,619 initial education
staff trained
* The Network for
Education Quality
implemented in 37,278
primary schools
Component I.4 School       * 52,600 AGEs (Parents
Management                    Associations) in
preschool and primary
school in operation
Component 1.5 School       * 4,661 supervisors and
Supervision                   sector chiefs assisted to
travel to the schools
Component II Institutional
Strengthening
Component II.1 Consolidation  * 31 states participate in
of the national education     expanded national
evaluation system             education evaluation
system and have access to
-47 -



evaluation results
Component 11.2 Consolidation  * 31 states operate
of the national school        cartographic system for
mapping system                basic education
Component 11.3 Studies      * The baseline for the
evaluation of initial
education is completed
* The evaluation of the
implementation of the
Network for Education
Quality is completed
* The diagnostic of the
problems of
disadvantaged basic
schools in the Federal
District is completed
Component 11.4 Institutional  * State level educational
Strengthening                 sector management is
strengthened
Component 11.5 Basic        * 20 state education
Education Innovation Fund     innovation projects are
completed
Component 11.6 Project      * 31 state project
Administration                management units are
strengthened
* Project execution and
disbursements are on
schedule
-48 -



Key Performance      [Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives .       Indicators  !       ;                         Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                         Outputs)
Component I. Improvement Component I: US$ 439.76   Project monitoring reports,  Assumptions for all project
of the quality of initial and  million             SEP statistics, CONAFE    activities:
basic education                                    progress reports, Supervision
missions.
I.1 Infrastructure        US$ 102.50 million                                 Close coordination between
CONAFE, SEP, and state
secretariats of education
1.2 Didactic Materials    US$ 74.53 million
1.3 Training              US$ 166.95 million                                 Personnel receiving technical
assistance and/or training are
encouraged to apply
knowledge and skills acquired
in the classroom and the
school
1.4 School Management     US$ 88.02 million
1.5 School Supervision    US$ 7.76 million                                   States receive adequate
support during project
implementation
Component II. Institutional Component II: US$ 88.34                          Key stakeholders support
Strengthening             million                                            project activities.
1.1 Consolidation of the  US$ 18.16 million
national education evaluation
system
11.2 Consolidation of the  US$ 1.60 million
national school mapping
system
II.3 Studies              US$ 3.42 million
H.4 Institutional         US$ 11.03 mnillion
Strengthening
11.5 Basic Education      US$ 6.12 million
Innovation Fund
II.6 Project Administration  US$ 48.01 million
-49 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MEXICO: Basic Education Development Phase 11
The project seeks to implement the social justice objectives of the Mexican Government and its basic
education policy that establishes three main objectives:
(a) Equity: to ensure equal opportunities of access, permanence, and educational achievement in basic
education for all Mexican children,
(b) Quality: to guarantee for every child enrolled in basic education, the opportunity to gain basic
knowledge, and to develop the intellectual abilities, values, and attitudes needed to achieve full
personal and family lives, act as competent and committed citizens, participate in productive work,
and continue to leam through out their lives,
(c) Efficiency: to reform the basic education system at federal and state levels, to ensure effectiveness
in converting these policies into practice in the classroom and in the school, providing for their
continuous evaluation, and ensuring efficient, transparent and accountable use of resources.
To implement these policies, the Government is committed not only to increase education spending, but also
to strengthen compensatory education programs. By supporting the Government compensatory education
programs, the Basic Education Development Program continues to channel incremental resources to
children at disadvantaged conditions and at risk of failing at school, in order to compensate for the social
and regional inequalities and advance towards education justice.
Specific APL2 objectives are:
(a) To consolidate and expand quality improvements in initial and basic education (preschool,
primary, and lower-secondary education), covering, inter alia, infrastructure improvements,
didactic materials provision, teacher training , school supervision, teacher performance
incentives, and implementation of tested school-based management strategies;
(b) To strengthen management of the education system through support for the Government's
ongoing strategy to consolidate the organization and management of basic education
(preschool through lower secondary), and to integrate the operation of the compensatory
education program nationwide;
(c) To put in operation a competitive fund to support education innovations proposed by the
states; and
(d) To continue strengthening the states' institutional capacity to plan, program, and evaluate
the delivery of basic education services.
During Phase II, the Program will support all basic education schools located in the 476 municipalities of
17 states that comprise the 250 micro-regions with the highest poverty rates in the country, singled out by
the Federal Government for priority attention. It will also support; (a) indigenous preschools classified in
the 4 and 3 quartiles, and rural preschools classified in the 4 quartile; (c) continue to support all indigenous
primary schools, and general primary schools in the rural areas, classified in the 4, 3, and 2 quartiles, and
primary schools in the 4 quartile located in marginal semi-rural urban areas; (c) rural lower secondary
- 50 -



schools (telesecundarias) classified in the 4, 3, and 2 quartiles. Initial education services will be expanded
in targeted localities that have preschool and/or primary education services. Targeting procedures are
detailed in Annex 13.
Phase II retains the same basic two components of the Program, which are:
By Component:
Project Component I - US$439.76 million
Quality Improvements in Initial and Basic Education
Sub-component 1.1 - Infrastructure - US$ 102.50 million. This sub-component intends to improve the
physical condition of existing primary and lower-secondary schools that urgently need rehabilitation or
replacement of inadequate facilities, and require construction of new classrooms and ancillary school
facilities to meet expanding enrollment. New and rehabilitated classrooms will be provided with
appropriate classroom furniture, including student desks and benches and teacher desks and chairs. This
sub-component operates as follows. On an yearly basis, the states prepare infrastructure plans, which are
then consolidated by CONAFE at the national level. Execution will be entrusted to communities
represented by parents associations, school councils and/or municipalities, under umbrella agreements with
CONAFE, applying the same administrative and financial mechanisms used in APLL. NAFIN oversees the
transfer of funds to each state, on a quarterly basis; communities with approved infrastructure plans receive
60 percent of funds in advance, to purchase materials; the balance is disbursed as civil works progress.
These advances are 100 percent pre-financed with CONAFE's budget; Bank reimbursement in only made
after actual expenses have been incurred and documented. The presentation of standard contract
agreements for the implementation of infrastructure, satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition for loan
effectiveness. Procurement norms applicable to infrastructure implemented by municipalities, are specified
in Annex 6. The presentation of design criteria for infrastructure works, satisfactory to the Bank, is a
condition for loan effectiveness. This sub-component will also finances Teacher Training Centers (Centros
de Maestros y Recursos. CRMs) in targeted communities, to facilitate in-service training of teachers.
These Teacher Training Centers will operate in buildings provided by the municipality or by CONAFE,
which will be rehabilitated with project support. The Project Operational Manual excludes new
construction in new sites. The Project Operational Manual also establishes that design for construction
must take into account basic environmental specifications, including proper solid and liquid waste disposal,
and should avoid the use of asbestos, lead paint and scarce timber. Approximately 16,755 classrooms and
other education facilities will be build and/rehabilitated, and 5,860 of these will also be provided with
furniture and equipment.
Sub-component 1.2 - Didactic Materials - US$74.53 million. Didactic materials will be provided to
parents and promoters participating in the initial education program, as well as to targeted primary and
lower-secondary schools. These materials consist of teaching and learning materials for classrooms, and
consumable education supplies. Approximately 1.0 million packages of didactic materials will be provided
to parents, promoters and staff involved in initial education. Didactic materials for primary schools are
allocated according to the number of students in each school, and include an estimated 3.2 million student
packages and school packages. The 4,236 telesecundarias that were not equipped during Phase I, will
receive computer equipment and software, along with the appropriate training for their use.
Sub-component 1.3 - Training - US$ 166.95 miUion. The teacher training program consists of three
basic elements. First, training for initial education promoters; approximately 52,423 staff will be trained to
operate the initial education program. Second, the Network for Education Quality in all targeted primary
- 51 -



schools, which represent an innovative training modality that promotes classroom participation of
supervisors and technical pedagogic assistants (ATPs); this Network complements in-service training of
teachers, by helping them apply in the classroom the skills learned at training sessions. The Network will
operate in all 37,278 targeted primary schools. ATPS will receive financial incentives to carry out their
new functions. Third, the sub-component supports the operation of 34 Teacher Training Centers (CRMs),
strategically located in rural areas near the project schools, where teachers can take nationally standardized
courses at their own convenience, using distance education techniques. This component also finances
performance incentives for primary school teachers, which currently represent approximately 40 percent of
the teacher's base salary, and are paid contingent upon performance results monitored by school-parent's
associations.
Sub-component 1.4 - School Management - US$ 88.02 million.      School management will be
strengthened at preschool and primary levels by promoting the active participation of mothers and fathers
in the education of their children, and by providing greater school autonomy and decision-making by
principals and teachers in the technical, administrative, and operational aspects of school life. This will be
achieved through the support for Parents Associations (APFs), responsible for school refurbishing and
maintenance, implementation of infrastructure improvements, certification of attendance of teachers, and
other school-based management activities, including, in pilot schools the purchase of student's educational
supplies (utiles escolares). The AGEs will receive administrative and financial management training to
ensure the proper use of funds in carrying out their functions. Approximately 52,600 AGEs will be
operating at preschool and primary levels by the end of Phase II.
Sub-component 1.5 - School Supervision - US$ 7.76 million. This sub-component promotes enhanced
supervision practices centered on the pedagogic support to teachers by supervisors, technical pedagogic
assistants (ATPs), and sector chiefs, operating as a team. Support will be given to approximately 4,661
supervisory staff in the form of per diems to increase supervision visits to schools. The members of the
supervision teams will also receive appropriate training to incorporate the new practices embodied in the
Network for Education Quality. With respect to the organization of school supervision, technical
assistance will be provided to promote to states interested in the creation of Supervision Zones for Basic
Education, based on the cartographic information supported by the project.
Project Component 2 - US$88.34 million
Institutional Strengthening
2.1 Consolidation of the national education evaluation system - US$18.16 million. The objective of this
sub-component is to make available to educators, parents, and civil society, accurate and timely
measurements of the learning achievements of basic education students, together with the identification of
factors that explain these educational outcomes, to provide a solid base for quality improvements in the
teaching/learning process. Activities planned for Phase II are based on the achievements of Phase I. Main
achievements of Phase I include the provision of equipment and staff training at all state-level evaluation
units. To consolidate these advancements will necessitate: (a) training of human resource at state level; (b)
expansion of the national database for initial and basic education, through periodic testing of students
benefitting from the project; (c) identification of the characteristics of the supply and the demand for
education at the different levels covered by the project; and (d) dissemination of information on the
learning achievements of the students targeted by the project at the school and state levels.
2.2 Consolidation of the national school mapping system - US$ 1.60 million. Effective educational
planning requires accurate cartographic information, which in turn requires the active participation of
- 52 -



government entities at the federal and state levels. Phase I significantly advanced towards this goal. Main
achievements include: updating of cartographic and geo-educational information for all 31 states; use of
INTEGRAPH platform to process the information for educational planning purposes; development of
procedures to update geo-educational information; organization of workshops in each state on the
INTERGRAPH applications; development of a territorial catalogue which makes SEP's and INEGI's
databases compatible; expansion of the geo-educational database with data on related sectors, including
health, nutrition and urban development; and, improvement of the analytical capacity of five pilot states to
develop topographic and micro-planning models. Phase II will support the consolidation of the system
through: (a) further develop the INTERGRAPH platform, (b) validation of the SEP-INEGI catalog of
localities; (c) updating of the information at the level of localities for the 31 states using LANDSAT
satellite images; (d) improvements in the use of the information for planning purposes at the federal and
state levels; (e) integration of a digital topographic model into the educational cartography; (f) expansion of
the database by including architectural informnation on schools; (g) application of appropriate software link
topographic information to the educational planning process; and, (h) training of human resources in each
state to efficiently operate and further develop the system.
2.3 Studies - US$ 3.42 million. Phase II will promote the development of education research to foster the
use of research results as input in decision making and policy formulation. This component will support
three studies: (a) Database for the impact evaluation of the initial education program; (b) Evaluation of the
operation of the Network for Education Quality, covering a representative sample of states and types of
primary schools supported by the project; and (d) Diagnostics of problems affecting basic education
schools located in marginalized areas of Mexico City and other major cities, aimed at identifying
compensatory interventions appropriate to the metropolitan context. These studies will be carried out with
assistance of consultants, by two units of SEP; studies (a) and (b) will be carried out by the Directorate
General for Evaluation of SEP, and study (c) will be developed by Under-Secretariat for Planning and
Coordination for Educational Services of the Federal District. Preliminary terms of reference are already
prepared for these studies.
2.4 Institutional Strengthening - US$ 11.03 million. Technical assistance will be provided to the states,
to develop the organization and operation of basic education services, in accordance with sector policies, as
well as to implement other priority programs defined by the SEByN. Specific technical assistance activities
will be proposed annually by the interested states. The state proposals supported by this component will be
those that improve effectiveness in the design and implementation of basic education policies, provide for
their continual evaluation, ensure the efficient and transparent use of public funds, and promote the
integration of basic education levels in terms of planning, supervision, and service delivery.
2.5 Basic Education Innovation Fund - US$ 6.12 million. This fund aims to foster federalism, by
supporting state initiatives to improve the quality of basic education, and by promoting the active
participation of state educational authorities in the adaptation of education programs to the needs of the of
each state. The fund will be administered by CONAFE in close coordination with the SEByN, which will
be responsible for the evaluation of the proposals presented by the states. Eligible expenditures under the
Fund comprise consultant services and training. The operating norms of the fund, including evaluation
criteria, funding mechanisms, monitoring and evaluation arrangements for the Fund will be extensively
disseminated among states, and will be part of the Project Operations Manual.
2.6 Project Administration - US$48.01 million. Project administration needs to be strengthened to
achieve the new goals set out for Phase II. The first main challenge is to establish the operational and
logistic integration of compensatory programs nationwide. This involves eliminating duplication of
functions and units, consolidating procedures, and reinforcing personnel training in all 31 states. The
- 53 -



second challenge is to carry out an intensive monitoring and evaluation of the project, designed to
effectively measure the progress in the implementation and to evaluate project impact. Thirdly, project
administration units in each state (IJCEs), need to be strengthened to coordinate with the SEPEs in matters
of planning and programming, procurement, monitoring and reporting on project implementation. This
sub-component finances honoraries and benefits of project administration staff at central and state levels,
travel expenses, and incremental operating expenditures.
- 54 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MEXICO: Basic Education Development Phase 11
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component               US $million  US $million  US $million
1. Quality Improvements in Initial and Basic Education
1.1 Infrastructure and Equipment
1.1.1 Construction and rehabilitation of school facilities  83.00     9.22        92.23
1.1.2 Furniture and equipment for school facilities      2.04         4.75         6.79
1.1.3 Rehabilitation of Teacher Training Centers         0.36         0.04         0.40
1.2 Didactic Materials
1.2.1 Consumable educational supplies                   36.65        15.71        52.36
1.2.2 Equipment and didactic materials for telesecundarias  5.98     13.96         19.95
1.3 Training
1.3.1 Training initial education staff                  74.14         0.00        74.14
1.3.2 Network for education quality in primary schools  44.77         0.00        44.77
1.3.3 Training staff for Teacher Training Centers        2.53         0.00         2.53
1.3.4 Incentives for primary school teachers            44.61         0.00        44.61
1.4 Strengthening school management
1.4.1 School Management Fund (AGE)                      59.95         6.66        66.61
1.4.2 Training Parents Associations                     21.42         0.00        21.42
1.5 Strengthening school supervision
1.5.1 Travel expenses of technical assistants, supervisors
and sector chiefs                                    6.98         0.78         7.76
2. Institutional Strengthening
2.1  Consolidation of the National Evaluation System     16.34         1.82         18.16
2.2  Consolidation of the National School Mapping Systems  0.30        1.27         1.57
2.3  Studies                                             3.42         0.00          3.42
2.4 Institutional Strengthening                          9.93          1.10        11.03
2.5  Basic Education Innovation Fund                     5.51         0.61          6.12
2.6  Project Administration                             48.02         0.00         48.02
Total Baseline Cost                                    465.95        55.93        521.88
Physical Contingencies                                  1.70         0.37          2.07
Price Contingencies                                     3.41         0.74          4.15
Total Project Costsl           471.06        57.04        528.10
Fee                                                       0.00
3.00         3.00
Total Financing Required            471.06        60.04        531.10
- 55 -



Local          Foreign           Total
Project Cost By Category                         US $million     US $million      US $million
Works                                                                    85.92             9.58            95.50
Goods                                                                    76.62            36.38           113.00
Consultant Services and Training                                       193.92             11.08          205.00
School Grants                                                            66.60             0.00            66.60
Operational Costs                                                        48.00             0.00            48.00
Total Project Costs          471.06             57.04          528.10
Fee      0.00                  3.00             3.00
Total Financing Required           471.06             60.04          531.10
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 370 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 81.08% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 56 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
MEXICO: Basic Education Development Phase 11
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
A cost-benefit analysis based on the initial targets of the Education Development Program, estimated costs,
and opportunity costs derived from household survey data, was carried out at appraisal of Phase I. The
economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 18.2 percent based on private costs and 17.5 percent based
on public and private costs. These were considered lower-bound results, as the externalities expected from
basic education were not taken into account in the analysis. While data necessary to update the analysis
are as yet unavailable, there are strong indications that the positive impacts have continued, confirming the
validity of the underlying assumptions of the original analysis.
Main Assumptions:
The original cost-benefit analysis assumed: labor force participation rate of secondary school graduates of
50 percent, an unemployment rate of 10 percent, and maintenance costs of 2 percent a year.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Phase I appraisal tested the sensitivity of the ERR with respect to terminal efficiency, and labor force
participation of secondary students. The switching value for terminal efficiency for primary education is
0.84 and for lower secondary education is 0.79. These values were achieved by 1999. With respect labor
force participation rate, the analysis shows that the ERR would remain greater than 10 percent even in case
of a 50 percent increase in the participation rate.
Fiscal Impact: Assuming that 80% of total project costs for Phase 2 and 3 would be continued beyond
project execution (replacement of materials, infrastructure maintenance, incentives programs, etc.),
recurrent costs would amount to about MXN $0.21 billion per year, or about 0.09 percent of projected
total federal expenditures in basic education for 2006.  Therefore, neither the counterpart fund
requirements nor the incremental recurrent costs are likely to impose a significant fiscal burden.
Background: Several recent studies on education in Mexico have shown that the economic returns to
education have increased in the past decade. Moreover, education is by far the most significant factor
explaining earnings inequality in Mexico, which is more marked than in developed countries and most
countries in Mexico's income group. Therefore, investment in improving the efficiency, coverage, and
quality of the education system would both enhance the country's economic development and improve
income distribution. Mexico's compensatory education programs are based on this reasoning. The returns
to investment in the compensatory programs will depend, in turn, on their efficiency in improving the
coverage, efficiency and quality of the education system. At appraisal of Phase I, a complete economic
analysis was carried out to estimate the returns to the Education Development Program in Mexico, as well
as the sensitivity of the results to various factors and changes in costs. As Phase II will support the entire
range of compensatory education programs, and the key assumptions are still valid, the results of this
analysis are still valid. This Annex reviews the progress made during the past decade in improving
coverage and the trends in the financing of education, summarizes the results of the original economic
analysis of the program, and discusses the continued validity of the underlying assumption of that analysis.
- 57 -



Progress in Improving Coverage and Efficiency
Primary Education. Between 1990 and 2000, the percentage of the primary-school-age group (aged 6-14)
attending school increased steadily, reaching,91.3 percent overall by 2000 (Table 1). The first goal of the
EDP was thereby nearly achieved, with the number of children not enrolled decreasing by nearly half over
the period. As these children move through primary school, it is hoped that further improvement will be
observed. Improvement was especially strong for younger children, suggesting that more children were
beginning school at the proper age, and among 12-14 year-olds, suggesting that more children were staying
in school for the complete primary cycle. This is borne out by the reduced dropout rates and higher
completion rates during the 1990s, as shown in Tables 2 and 3. The completion rate reached 82.9 percent
by 1997, an increase of 11.3 percentage points over its 1990 level (Table 2). States with the lowest
coverage in 1990 made the most gains, reflecting the impact of the compensatory programs. Nevertheless,
they still lag far behind the states with highest coverage, indicating the need for continued effort to raise
coverage.
T ble 1: Population of 6-14 Years of Age: Percenta e Enrolled in School
1990 Census                        2000 Census
Age         Enrolled    Not Enrolled   Unknown        Enrolled    Not Enrolled
(%)           (%)           (%)           (%)           (%)
6             79.5          19.0           1.5          89.0           9.8
7             88.8           9.9           1.3          94.4           5.0
8             91.5           7.6           0.9          95.4           4.1
9             93.1           6.1           0.8          95.8           3.7
10             92.2           7.2           0.6          95.6           4.1
11             91.8           7.5           0.6          95.3           4.3
12             86.6          12.9           0.5          91.6           8.3
13             79.4          20.0           0.6          86.0          13.9
14             69.5          29.8           0.7          78.1          21.8
Overall            --           -- --                       91.3           8.2
Source: INEGI, Censo de Poblaci6n, 1990;. XIl Censo General de Poblaci6n y Vivienda, 2000. Tabulados
Btisicos por Entidad Federativa. Bases de Datos y Tabulados de la Muestra CensaL Mexico, 2001.
Table 2: Primary Completion Rates, National Average and Selected States, 1991/92 - 1998/99
1991-    1992-    1993-    1994-    1995-    1996-    1997-    1998-
1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999
National Average   71.6     72.9     74.2     77.7     80.0     82.9     84.9     85.6
Tlaxcala         86.2     92.3     88.6     96.1     96.5     97.1     96.7     96.2
Distrito Federal  89.6    90.9     91.5     95.6     95.9     96.7     99.0     95.8
Quintana Roo     78.3     79.2     81.1     85.6     89.0     96.1     97.4     94.2
Veracruz         58.0     58.9     60.2     64.6     68.0     71.0     75.3     80.6
Guerrero         52.0     53.5     54.1     58.3     61.1     64.4     66.9     77.3
Chiapas          40.3     41.1     43.4     45.6     48.2     61.4     63.1     65.9
Source: SEP, Estadisticas Educativas, 2001.
The improvement in completion rates shown in Table 2 is linked to an improvement in both repetition and
dropout rates, which was particularly marked in the lower grades, when the risk of dropping out is highest,
especially among disadvantaged populations (Table 3). These improvements indicate that the Government
is well on its way to achieving its goal of raising the primary completion rate to 87.7 percent by 2003.
- 58 -



Table 3: Repetition and Dropout Rates by Grade, 1992-1996
YEAR                                    GRADE
T    2    |   3    |    4    |   5    |    6    | Average,
1  I             3    I             5        61-6
Repetiddon Rates
1991-1992      16.7      11.2      10.0      8.5       6.6      1.7       9.8
1992-1993      12.9      10.3      9.0       7.6       5.8      1.5       8.3
1993-1994      13.0      11.2      9.0       7.4       5.5      1.4       8.3
1994-1995      13.2      10.8      8.9:      6.9       5.1      1.3       8.1
1995-1996      12.8      10.3       8.7      6.7       4.9      1.6       7.8
Dropout Rates
1991-1992      7.6        2.4      4.7       4.7       4.8      2.3       4.6
1992-1993      6.4        2.3      4.4       4.4       4.2      0.3       4.1
1993-1994      5.7        1.7      4.0       3.9       3.6      2.0       3.6
1994-1995      5.7        1.8      3.8       3.5       2.9      2.0       3.4
1995-1996      6.2        1.7      3.6       3.0       2.2      1.6       3.0
Source: SEP, Estadisticas Educativas, 2001.
The coverage of basic secondary education also rose during the 1990s, reaching over 75 percent of the
secondary school-aged population (14-16 years) by 1997-an increase of nearly seven percentage points.
The number of students entering secondary school grew by nearly 28 percent over the decade, and by over
14 percent since 1996, surpassing the EDP goal. Construction of new secondary schools outstripped the
growth in enrollments, helping to relieve overcrowding (Table 4). New teachers were also added faster
than enrollment, maintaining the student-teacher ratio at just under 18:1 over the period. Secondary
education is predicted to continue to grow in the next several years, as the improvement in primary
completion rates continues and programs such as PROGRESA stimulate demand for secondary education.
Table 4: Growth in Secondary Education, 1991-1999
School Year   Enrollment  Population  Coverage    Schools   Teachers   Completion
('000)     (12-15)                                       Rate
('000)                                      _ _ _ _ _
1990-1991     4,190.2      6,119.4     68.5%     19,228     234,293
1996-1997     4,809.3      6,380.3     75.4%     24,402     275,331      74.8
1997-1998     4,929.3                            25,670     275,331      73.8
1998-1999     5,070.6                            26,710     282,595      76.1
1999-2000     5,208.9                            27,512     293,008
2000-2001     5,348.1              1              29,007    299,999
Growth, 1991-
2001              27.6%        4.3%                  31.4%      50.9%
Source: SEP, Education Statistics, 2001; INEGI.
Progress in improving secondary completion rates has been slower than at primary level (Table 5). Several
factors may explain this result. First, the growth in secondary school enrollment consisted largely of
students who, in earlier years, would have dropped out after primary school. PROGRESA was sufficient
to encourage many of those students to enroll in secondary school, but pressures to join the work force
were still strong, especially during the economic crisis that affected Mexico during the 1990s. Second, the
- 59-



strong growth in enrollment has placed increased stress on schools and teachers, making difficult the
introduction and maintenance of quality improvements, which are key to raising completion rates. Finally,
significant improvement in the completion rate at secondary level may depend on the degree to which
parents can be encouraged to enroll their children in pre-school and primary school at the appropriate age,
as well as improvements in quality at both primary and secondary level. Additional time is required to
measure the effects of changed parental behavior and quality improvements in terms of secondary
completion rates, as cohorts of students experience the improvements from the early years of primary
school on.
Table 5: Secondary Completion Rates, National Average and Selected States 1991/92 - 1998/99
1991-    1992-    1993-   1994-   1995-    1996-   1997-    1998-
1992     1993     1994    1995    1996     1997    1998     1999
National
Average       75.3     76.4     77.5    76.2    75.8     74.8    73.8     76.1
Tlaxcala    79.7     80.8     82.9    78.9    78.7     80.3     75.2    78.4
Distrito
Federal     73.9     75.9     78.6    72.8    74.7     73.7     74.4    78.0
Quintana
Roo         78.8     80.1     71.5    76.9    78.1     76.5     74.5    74.5
Veracruz    76.8     78.2     77.1    77.5    78.8     77.9     76.8    76.5
Guerrero    76.2     77.2     76.3    73.8    73.9     73.1     64.2    75.5
Chiapas     75.5     77.7     73.7    78.6    78.2     83.1     74.9    76.7
Source: SEP, Estadisticas Educativas, 2001.
Note: The relatively small difference observed between more and least development states reflects the
fact that completion rate is calculated on the basis of students enrolled and not on the basis of the
number of children in the age-group.
Education Financing. Total spending on education grew throughout the 1990s, reaching close to 6.0% of
GDP from 1996-1999 (Table 6, Figure 1). The private sector grew during the decade, accounting for
nearly 22% of spending by 1999, an increase of about 10 percentage points since 1990. SEP's share of
spending varied: it provided about 75% of the total during the economic crisis of 1994-1995, and in recent
years its share represented just under 70% of the total. It is important to note, however, that, as a share of
the Federal Government budget, education spending by SEP grew from 13.3% in 1990 to an estimated 26%
in 2001, indicating the strong commitment of the Government to education. The shares of both state and
municipal governments in total education spending declined during the period.
- 60 -



Table 6: Sources of Spending on Education, 1990-1999
SEP/Net
Programmable
Federal      Total
Government Education SEP/ GD
Federal  Federal                        Total                Spending      /GDP
Year   (SEP)    (Other)   State   Municipal   Public   Private          )         (%)      (%)
=___ ________ ________     (Percentage shares o total spen ing)
1990    61.8     13.3     16.4       0.3       91.9       8.1        13.3         4.0      2.5
1991    66.6     12.8     15.1       0.3       94.8       5.2        15.4         4.3      2.9
1992    67.9     12.2     13.2       0.3       93.6       6.4        17.1         4.7      3.2
1993    69.8     12.5      11.6      0.3       94.2       5.8        18.9         5.3      3.7
1994    73.2     10.9     10.4       0.2       94.8       5.2        19.4         5.4      4.0
1995    76.0      9.2      9.4       0.2       94.8       4.7        20.3         4.9      3.7
1996    63.5      4.6     13.6       0.2       82.5      17.5        19.7         5.8      3.7
1997    64.5      4.6     13.1       0.1       82.4      17.6        19.0         5.8      3.7
1998    67.7      1.0     12.4       0.1       81.3      18.7        21.7         6.0      4.0
1999    68.0      0.8     12.4       0.1       81.4      18.6        21.7         5.9      4.0
Source: SEP, 2001.
Figure 1: Sources of Spending on Education, 1990-1999
.0 120
.0100
= Private
c 80- 
g 0                                    0 Municipal
Do 60
4 > 60 -         _                 a State
8  20 -  .                          * Federal (Other)
0                     _           0 Federal (SEP)
Year
Source: SEP, 2001
Spending per student at primary level more than tripled as a percentage of per capita GNP between 1990
and 1995 (Table 7). Per capita spending relative to per capita GNP also increased at secondary and higher
levels, but less dramatically, more than doubling at secondary level and slightly less for higher education.
This pattern reflects the emphasis given to improving quality as well as access to education throughout the
1990s, particularly at primary level.
- 61 -



Table 7: Per capita spending on education, by level, 1990-2000
(As percentage of per capita GNP)
Year                  Basic           Upper Secondary           Higher
1990                 0.0493               0.1221                0.3368
1991                 0.0549               0.1236                0.3586
1992                 0.0676               0.1297                0.4159
1993                 0.0834               0.1518                0.4572
1994                 0.0969               0.1750                0.4876
1995                 0.0902               0.2046                0.4542
1996                 0.0887               0.1825                0.4080
1997                 0.0941               0.1611                0.3620
1998                 0.1100               0.1459                0.3999
1999                 0.1095               0.1387                0.3701
2000                 0.1126               0.1332                0.3611
Source: Government of Mexico, "Primer Informe de Gobierno," Anexo, September 1, 2001.
The distribution of public spending on education is strongly progressive at primary level, though it becomes
increasingly regressive at each higher level of education. One reason for this is that larger numbers of poor
people drop out of school before reaching secondary or higher levels. A necessary condition for improving
the equity of spending at higher levels, thereby improving equity overall, is to increase the numbers of poor
people who have access to secondary education and beyond. The compensatory education programs seek
to achieve this goal.
Economic Analysis of the Education Development Program
Methodelogy, Assumptions and Results. A cost-benefit analysis based on the initial targets of the EDP,
estimated costs, opportunity costs derived from household survey data, was carried out at appraisal of
Phase I. Assumptions included: maintenance costs of 2% a year; labor force participation rate of
secondary school graduates of 50%, and an unemployment rate of 10%. The economic rate of return
(ERR) was estimated at 18.2 percent based on private costs and 17.5 percent based on public and private
costs. These were considered lower-bound results, as the externalities expected from basic education were
not taken into account in the analysis. Sensitivity analysis showed that the ERR would remain greater than
10 percent if completion rates for primary education reached at least 84% and of secondary education 79%
by 2003. As shown in Table 2, above, the completion rate for primary education has already exceeded the
2003 target, having reached 85.6% by 1999. Progress in improving completion rates at secondary level
has been slower (Table 5, above). Quality improvements in lower-secondary education are included under
Phases 1 or 2 of the Program, this indicates the will of the Government to. address the issues affecting
secondary education quality and efficiency.
Impact and Cost-Effectiveness of the Compensatory Programs. The Program To Reverse the Lag in
Education (PARE), which began in 1991 with support from the Bank in four states (Chiapas, Guerrero,
Hidalgo and Oaxaca), was designed to provide simultaneously a number of complementary interventions,
which would produce an impact on educational outcomes. The combination of interventions were to effect
changes in the behavior of teachers, principals, supervisors, parents and students, in addition to providing
target schools with supplies, didactic materials and improved physical infrastructure. From its inception,
its performance was monitored through statistical comparisons between the target, or experimental,
- 62 -



population (schools in the states of Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo and Oaxaca) and a control group formed
by students in comparable schools in the state of Michoacan, which was not within the scope of the
program at that time. Special surveys were conducted yearly between 1992 and 1995, through which data
were collected on a sample of schools in the four states participating in the PARE program and from
Michoacan. The data obtained included detailed information on students, parents, school personnel and
school characteristics. In addition, all students were given standardized achievement tests in Spanish and
mathematics.
Monitoring data showed that not all schools benefited systematically from the intended combination of all
interventions. As a result, the impact of the program was not clear in all cases. At the outset of Phase I of
the Education Development Program, a number of experiments were carried out to test what the impact of
the program would be if implemented as intended, with all interventions delivered to target schools without
delays. To ensure the maximum impact of the Program, the monitoring system has been improved under
Phase 2 of the Basic Education Development Project to ensure timely delivery of all program interventions.
In addition, the methodology for selection of target schools was refined, permitting a more precise
identification of those schools with particular need for extra help, based on poverty of the school population
and on the size of the gap in basic education indicators (Annex 13 presents a summary of the targeting
methodology). These measures are expected to increase the likelihood of achieving desired impact in all
schools and on the system as a whole.
The focus of the yearly surveys was on rural and indigenous communities, since they were the target of the
program and are the most disadvantaged groups, with the lowest educational attainment, poorest test
scores, and highest incidence of school dropouts. The analysis was restricted to those schools that
benefited from the entire complement of program interventions. The resulting sample consisted of 1,622
schools, of which 769 were indigenous and 853 were in rural non-indigenous communities. Performance
was measured by scores on standardized Spanish tests applied at the beginning of the fourth grade before
the program began and at the conclusion of the sixth grade, after close to three years of implementation.
Measured by their Spanish test scores, the performance of students in the participating schools is
significantly higher in both rural and indigenous sub-samples (Table 8). Students in indigenous schools
that participated in the program showed markedly poorer results before the program than their comparators
in the control group who were outside the scope of the program, but outperformed the control group after
three years of the program. In the rural sample, there was little difference in scores between participants
and control groups before the program, while after three years, participants did significantly better.
- 63 -



Table 8: Summary Results of Student Test Performance, before and after the Program
Indigenous
Before             After             Difference
Students  Average  Students  Average   Total   Percentag
test score         test score             e
Experimental   564      14.6      356      29.1      13.9     95%
Control     205       23.2     125       26.8      4.1      18%
Total - t/test  769     9.46     481       2.24     6.92      73%
Rural
Before              After            Difference
Students  Average  Students  Average    Total  Percentag
test score         test score             e
Experimental   645      20.1      421      32.9      11.6     58%
Control     208       20.7      128      29.7      8.2      39%
Total - t/test  853     20.6      549      32.4      2.5      12%
The gain in performance is still significant even after accounting for the effects of differences in student and
parental background, support of the school by parents, and quality of teachers, principals and supervisors.
It should be noted that the model does not explain more than 6% (12%) of the variance in the difference in
test scores between the fourth and sixth grades among students in rural (indigenous) schools. This may be
partly a result of the small number of variables used in the model and partly because of the low reliability
of the instrument used to measure the dependent variable (improvement in student performance): to the
extent that student test scores fail to capture the true level of performance in the example, much of the
influence of each of the explanatory factors may not reflected in the results of the model.
Despite the shortcomings of the model, however, the explanatory variables do behave generally as
expected, and the coefficient of the experimental variable is large and significant. In this experiment, the
PARE program has a large positive impact on student achievement.  Table 9 shows the marginal
contribution of each explanatory variable in terms of standard deviations of the dependent variable (the
gain in performance between the fourth and sixth grades). Indigenous schools fully served by the program
had an average gain in test scores 25% higher than those that did not participate. Participating rural,
non-indigenous schools also did better than non-participants, though by a smaller margin (about 12%).
Several of the other supply-related factors (performance of teachers, principals and supervisors) partially
reflect program impact, since several interventions are directed at strengthening the performance of these
groups. Taking this cross-effect into account, it is estimated that the program could increase the average
gain in test scores by one-half a standard deviation.
- 64 -



Table 9: Change in Students' Performance 1
Difference in normalized test scores between 4* and 6th Grade
Indigenous                 Rural
Beta      t-score       Beta       t-score
Coefficient              coefficient
Control                                     0.245       4.698a       0.115       2.695a
Perfornance of 6th grade teacher            -0.003      -0.060       0.075       1.691 c
Performance of 5th grade teacher            -0.005      -0.102       0.107       2.485a
Academic performance of school principal    0.171       3.709a       0.138       3.040a
Performance of supervisor                   0.122       2.302'       0.013       0.283
Parents & PTA participation in school       0.073        1.565c     -0.134      -3.048a
Student's educational background &          0.044       0.984       0.062        1.44Id
performance prior to 4th grade                                 I
R2 -adjusted                                            0.121                    0.062
F                                                       10.437a                  6.205a
N                                            480                      548
Student's self-esteem at 5h' grade          -0.088  |-2.032b    L   -0.044      -1.039
Availability & quality of urban infrastructure  -0.167  -3.120a      0.007       0.153
Memorandum item:
Maximum total contribution of PARE program  0.531                    0.448
a Significant at the I % level or more
b Significant at the 5% level or more
' Significant at the 10% level or more
d Significant at the 20% level or more
The variables measuring the characteristics of students, parents, school personnel and facilities are
numerical indices constructed to aggregate answers to as many as a dozen questions in the original survey.
Nevertheless, several indices are needed to capture the complex set of interactions influencing student
performance. Thus, the model reflected in Table 9 is a simplistic representation. In particular, it could be
argued that if the external characteristics (family and community background, parental attitude towards and
involvement in schooling, academic history, self-esteem, etc.) were adequately measured, the additional
effect of the PARE program would be smaller. Alternatively, if the characteristics of the supply (teachers',
principals' and supervisors' background, performance, attitudes, assiduity, pay, etc., as well characteristics
of the school infrastructure and availability of textbooks, supplies, etc.) were captured more precisely, the
impact of the program could be larger.
To make use of a wealth of information without introducing damaging multi-colinearity in the results, two
sets of principal (orthogonal) components measuring, respectively, the characteristics of the demand and
supply of schooling were constructed. Table 10 shows the results of this more complex model. The results
are very similar to those shown in Table 9. It is encouraging that in this model, the impact of the program
is larger and more significant. The coefficient of the factor capturing the conditions of supply is also large
and significant, especially in the case of schools serving indigenous communities.
- 65 -



Table 10: Change in Students' Performance -2
Difference in Normalized test scores between 4th and 6th Grade
Indigenous                Rural
Beta      t-score        Beta     t-score
Coefficient              coefficient
Control                                     0.274        6.210a      0.127       3.000O
Factor: Characteristics of community & family  -0.009   -0.060      -0.181      -3.815a
Factor: Characteristics of school & system  0.002        4.664a      0.074       1 754c
R2 -adjusted                                             0.124                   0.035
F                                                       23.599a                  7.713a
N                                         480 schools              548 schools
Memorandum item:
Maximum total contribution of PARE program  0.531       .            0.448
a Significant at the I % level or more
b Significant at the 5% level or more
'Significant at the 10% level or more
d Significant at the 20% level or more
It is still possible that small differences in test scores are very imperfect measures of relative capabilities
and/or achievements. A final experiment was performed to attempt to cope with this issue. The samples
were stratified into two sub-samples each: those with performance above and those below their respective
medians. The results, shown in Table 11, are consistent with the previous two experiments. The program
has a positive and significant impact, especially for the indigenous population.
- 66 -



Table 11: Change in Students' Performance -3
Probabiity of testing above the median in 6th grade
Coefficient  Std. Error  t-Statistic  Probability
Indigenous schools
Constant                                      0.991        0.217      4.572      0.0%
Control                                       1.272        0.246      5.162      0.0%
Factor - Characteristics of comnunity & family  0.054      0.103.     0.528     59.8%
Factor - Characteristics of school & system   0.630        0.104      6.056      0.0%
N                                              481
Log likelihood                              -295.562
F-statistic                                    15.024                            0.0%
Chi-square                                    60.095                             0.0%
Obs with Dep=1                                 237 
Obs with Dep=0                                 244
Ex-ante probability                                                               49%
Estimated probability (at means)                                                  49%
Estimated probability without PARE (control)                                      27%
PARE contribution - percentage gain probability                                   45%
Rural schools
Constant                                     -0.396        0.183     -2.161      3.1%
Control                                       0.495        0.209      2.372       1.8%
Factor - Characteristics of community & family  0.233      0.086      2.713      0.7%
Factor - Characteristics of school & system   0.107        0.083      1.279     20.1%
N                                              549
Log likelihood                               -374.073
F-statistic                                    3.112                              1.5%
Chi-square                                     12.448                             1.4%
Obs with Dep=1                                 271
Obs with Dep=O                                 278
Ex-ante probability                                                               49%
Estimated probability (at means)                                                  49%
Estimated probability without PARE (control)                   .                  40%
PARE contribution - percentage gain probability                                   19%
- 67 -



Table 12: Change in Students' Performance 4
Probability of being in school in the 6th prad  havingbeen in school in the 4thgrade
Variable                                      Coefficient  Std. Error  t-Statistic  Probability
Indigenous Schools
Constant                                       0.499       0.148      3.379       0.1%
Control                                        0.115       0.174      0.660      51.0%
Factor - Characteristics of community & family  0.125      0.078      1.599      11.0%
Factor - Characteristics of school & system   -0.067       0.076     -0.876      38.1%
N                                               769
Log likelihood                              -500.106
F-statistic                                   15.597                       %_ 0.0%
Chi-square                                    62.386                              0.0%
Obs with Dep=1                               493
Obs with Dep=0                               276
Ex-ante probability                           64%
Estimated probability (at means)              64%
Estimated probability without PARE (control)  62%
PARE contribution - percentage gain probability            3%
Rural Schools
Constant                                       0.496       0.144      3.441       0.1%
Control                                        0.271       0.168      1.613      10.7%
Factor - Characteristics of community & family  0.184      0.076      2.419       1.6%
Factor - Characteristics of school & system    0.121       0.075      1.617      10.6%
N                                            825
Log likelihood                              -519.618
F-statistic                                   23.752                              0.0%
Chi-square                                    95.010                              0.0%
Obs with Dep= 1                              549
Obs with Dep=O                               276
Ex-ante probability                           67%
Estimated probability (at means)              67%
Estimated probability without PARE (control)  62%
PARE contribution - percentage gain probability  7%
Table 13 summarizes the results of the various experiments to test the impact of the PARE program on test
scores. The PARE program, fully implemented, could cause an increase in performance for the average
student in a rural school of 19% to 38%. For indigenous students, the gain could be much larger, from
45% to 90%. If consideration is taken of the factors affecting supply, such as the performance of teachers,
principals and supervisors, on the plausible assumption that this performance is in part a product of the
program, the total impact could be even larger.
- 68 -



Table 13: Change in Students' Performance - Summary
Marginal contribution op articipating in the program
Mean of                    Estimated      Marginal
Group       dependent       Unit       Coefficient,  Contribution,
variable                  Participants  Participants
Table 4      Rural             10.78    Gain in scores     3.644        33.8%
Indigenous         11.36    Gain in scores   10.259         90.3%
Table 5      Rural             10.78    Gain in scores     4.043        37.5%
Indigenous         11.36    Gain in scores    9.998         88.0%
Table 6      Rural             49%      Probability        0.495         19.0%
Indigenous        49%       Probability       1.272         45.0%
Table 6a     Rural             67%      Probability        0.271         7.0%
Indigenous        64%       Probability       0.115          3.0%
Note: For Tables 4 and 5, the marginal contribution is percentage gain to the mean. For Table 6, the
contribution is the percentage gain to the initial probability of success, estimated at the means of the
independent variables.
Impact of the Program on Dropouts. In addition to increasing the students' cognitive achievements, the
PARE program also increases the probability that the student will continue in school. The two outcomes
are probably linked: children who perform better are more motivated to continue, and their parents may be
more inclined to allow them to continue in school. This is clearly the case for rural students, as shown in
Table 14. Students supported by the program are 20% less likely to drop out of school, and the effect is
just as large for the broader group of students who benefited from only a partial application of the program.
Surprisingly, however, the result does not seem to hold for the indigenous population. One-third of the
indigenous students who received the full program from 4th grade onward left school before completing the
6th grade. Their probability of dropping out was 12% greater than that of the comparable control group.
Table 14: Change in Students' Performance, Dropout
Percentage of students who quit school by the end of the 6-th grade
Complete program a           Partial program
Indigenous      Rural       Indigenous      Rural
(/0)     -   ()            (%)           (N)
Experimental           32.9         28.4           36.2          31.1
Control               29.4          35.7           36.0          38.5
Difference             11.7         -20.5          0.7          -19.2
N                      698           809           841           1006
a Schools that received all PARE components simultaneously.
b Schools that received some, but not all of the interventions.
This result deserves more analysis.  One possibility is that high-achieving students in indigenous
communities move to rural schools where they are immersed in a Spanish-speaking environment. On the
other hand, a multivariant analysis of the probability that the student who was in school in the 4th grade
was still in school in the 6th grade indicates that the program had a positive impact on both rural and
indigenous schools (Table 14). The gain in probability is small, however, particularly for the indigenous
population (a mere 3 percent increase).
Costs. Since PARE's activities are not independent of SEP's regular activities, estimating its costs is not
clear-cut. Changes in behavior by teachers, principals, parents or supervisors may result from factors not
related to the program's benefits. For example, teachers in a school benefiting from the PARE program
may become more motivated and assiduous simply because they perceive the threat (or reward) of closer
supervision by the educational authorities. The costs of the PARE program, as estimated by independent
- 69 -



consultants, are shown in Tables 15-16. Expenditure on indigenous schools was nearly 60 percent higher
than in rural schools. The largest cost items were infrastructure and materials. Expenditure on teacher
training and teacher incentives accounted for less than 14 percent of total spending.
Table 15: Per- upil Expenditure - 1994
All       "AR                   Cost increase
schools a
Indigenous    Rural      Indigenous     Rural
Chiapas    1,983        606        338         30.5          17.0
Guenero    2,253        749        764         33.2         33.9
Hidalzo    2,143      1,127        637         52.6         29.7
Oaxaca     1,770        624        230         35.3          13.0
Average    2,037        776        492         38.1          24.2
a Unit cost for primary schools in indigenous communities. SEP.
b See annex table.
Table 16: Per pupil costs of the PARE Program - 1994 (Mexican pesos)
Biing- Library Supplies Training Infra-  Teacer Audio-    Super- Didactic  Total
uat                             structure Incent- visual  | vision  Materials
text-                                    ives    Equip. &
books                                            Materials  _             _
Indigenous schools
Chiapas   21.5    3.5     2.0     45.6    215.2      -     111.3    47.0    159.5    605.7
Guerrero  20.2    3.2     4.1     50.1    282.1    45.8    101.1   103.2    139.4   749.1
Hidalgo   25.2    7.4     3.3     62.0    635.2    123.4    78.3    82.3    109.8  1,126.-
Oaxaca     9.2    4.6     3.5     50.3    279.7    52.8    139.3    29.2    55.6     624.1
Average
cost     19.0     4.7     3.2     52.0    353.1    55.5    107.5    65.4    116.1    776.4
Rural schools
Chiapas           7.3     3.2     32.7     32.6    21.2    136.4    39.4     65.4   338.1
Guerrero          4.8     6.4     40.8    333.0     4.0     97.9   139.9    137.5    764.2
Hidalgo          10.6     4.1     58.7    302.4    16.8     93.6    62.4     88.2    636.8
Oaxaca            6.1     4.4     42.9      -        -      94.2    46.5     35.7    229.7
Average           7.2     4.5     43.8    167.0    10.5    105.5    72.1     81.7    492.2
costIIIIIII
Cost-Benefit of the Program. As shown in Table 16, the PARE program increased the average per-pupil
cost of education by 38% in indigenous schools, and by 24% in rural schools. A simple comparison
between the gain in average test scores and the cost of the supplementary pedagogical actions under the
PARE program (for the subset of schools that received all of the interventions and implemented them
accordingly) shows a favorable relationship of benefits to costs for, the indigenous population, which
realized a 42% gain in average scores versus a 38% increase in cost, resulting in a benefit/cost ratio of
11% (Table 17). However, the ratio is negative for the rural population. Applying the simulated outcomes
shown in Tables 9 and 12 and considering the maximum estimated impact for the indigenous population (a
maximum gain.in performance of 90% shown in Table 13) the benefit/cost ratio is 137:100. The equivalent
ratio for the rural population (with a maximum gain in performance of 38% estimated in Table 13) is
58:100.
- 70 -



Table 17: Benefit/Cost Ratio of the PARE Program
Average Gain in Test Score
Experimental   Control   Difference  Percentage   Increase in   Ratio
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ___ _____ ____   _____ ____   _____ _____ g a in  co st'
Indigenous        13.9        4.1         9.8         42.3        38.1        11.02
schools
Rural schools    11.6         8.2         3.4         16.5        24.2       -31.70
See Table 15.
Recent Developments. As noted above, surveys equivalent to those carried out in 1992-1995 have not
been repeated since 1995. Moreover, selection of control groups has become more difficult as the program
has been extended to more states. Nevertheless, data on schools receiving compensatory assistance from
CONAFE is being correlated with achievement test results, and when available, these data will permit
testing of the continued viability of the compensatory programs. In the meantime, several indicators of the
continuing impact of the program are available.  These include the changes over time in dropout and
repetition rates in the states targeted under PARE and PAREB and the performance of indigenous schools
assisted by CONAFE, compared with national averages and with schools not receiving CONAFE support.
If continued progress has been observed and costs have not increased substantially, the results of the
analysis may be considered as reliable.
The improvements in dropout, repetition and completion rates shown in Tables 4 and 5, above, give a
picture of the overall improvements in completion, dropout and repetition rates. The states with the poorest
performance at the beginning of the decade experienced the greatest improvement. The most dramatic
improvement overall in completion rates (which reflects the improvements in dropout and repetition rates)
was achieved by indigenous rural schools that received CONAFE assistance, with the completion rate
rising from just under 52 to nearly 79 percent between 1994/95 and 1998/99 (Table 18, Figure 2).
Improvements were especially strong in the lower grades, when the risk of dropping out is highest in rural
areas. For example, rural schools in Oaxaca assisted under PARE and later under PAREB showed an
completion rate of 38 percent for grades 1-3 in 1991-1992. By 1998-1999, this rate had risen to nearly
65%, compared to the national average of 85.6%. In some states, such as Campeche and Guanajuato,
CONAFE-assisted schools showed even more rapid improvement, exceeding the national average by the
end of the period.
Table 18: Average Completion Rates, CONAFE-Assisted Schools and National Average
School Year
______________ ________  Prcentage of students completin grades 1-3
91-92    92-93    93-94     94-95    95-96    96-97    97-98     98-99
National Average  71.6    72.9     74.2     77.7     80-0      82.9     84.9     85.6
General Rural                              66.9     68.2     73.2     76.0      79.6
Indigenous                                 51.7     61.4     67.0     72.6      78.8
Grades 1-3
Campeche                                    55.4     82.8      89.0     91.9     95.7
Oaxaca           38.0     56.1     56.5     60.3     63.4      63.2     69.5     64.9
Guanajuato             __50.1                        68.3      72.1     88.8     93.9
Source: SEP, CONAFE, 2000.
- 71 -



Figure 2: Completion rates, CONAFE-assisted schools and
National Average
120.0
100.0                           -     Campeche
80.0                       -7    -- Oaxaca
60.0                              - Guanajuato
40.0 -U-National
Average
2.-   Rural General
20.0
*    Indigenous
94- 95- 96- 97- 98-
95   96   97  98   99
Source: CONAFE, November 2000.
Prospects for continued improvement. In recent years, the population under 6 years old has decreased by
an average of 0.5 percent a year, while the 6-14 year age group has grown only 0.1 percent a year. This
age group is expected to remain stable in the coming decade. This should facilitate efforts to improve
coverage, permitting concentration on those areas that are currently underserved. In addition, since little
investment in infrastructure for the expansion of capacity are anticipated, resources can be focused on
enhancing the quality of primary education and improving student achievement.
Achievement.
Evidence is also strong that the program has continued to have a significant impact on achievement as
reflected by test scores in Spanish and mathematics. For example, indigenous students in schools assisted
by CONAFE tested lower in 1996 than students in schools that did not (indicating that CONAFE's
targeting was effective in selecting schools at greatest disadvantage). By 1998, this pattern was reversed,
and students in CONAFE-assisted schools continued to improve faster than the control group through 2000
(Figure 3).
- 72 -



Figure 3: Average Test Scores of Students in CONAFE-Assisted
Schools and non-CONAFE Schools
Scores of Conafe v. non-Conafe schools
52.00-
0
o 50.00
(A
- Conafe
ai48.00-
--NonConafe
0
E 46.00-
0
44.00        l       l
1996    1997    1998    1999   2000
Source: CONAFE, November 2000.
Initial Education. The real benefits of initial education are even more difficult to quantify than those of
primary education. The stated objectives of the program are to improve children's readiness for school at
the proper age by helping parents improve their childrearing and early childhood education skills. This is
expected to result in improved achievement in primary school, improved likelihood of staying in school and
completing primary school, and improved likelihood of continuing to secondary school. What may be at
least as important as the skills attained by the participants, however, is their increased willingness and
ability to participate in the education process, as noted by many observers. If this effect is generally true, it
can be hope that this program would enhance efforts to involve parents in primary and secondary school
parents' associations, as well as the impact of that involvement on their children's education. To date, no
systematic evaluation of the initial education has been carried out to test the extent of these imnpacts or the
cost-effectiveness of the program. However, the new Government shares the Bank's concern on this issue
and is strongly supporting plans to carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the initial education program
under PAREIB-Phase 2, through the DGE. The Department of Evaluation of SEP will be collaborating
with CONAFE to correlate achievement test data for primary students with data on participation in the
initial and preschool education program. CONAFE's cost accounting will also facilitate an economic
analysis of the program.
Summary. Economic analysis of the PARE program found that it was strongly cost-effective in improving
student performance when all of the necessary interventions were actually delivered. While the data
necessary to update the analysis are as yet unavailable, there are strong indications that the positive
impacts found after the initial four years of the program have been deepened and that they have been
continued through the expansion of the compensatory program. Under Phase 2, an improved monitoring
system is being utilized to ensure that all schools receive all of the interventions they need. The
effectiveness of the interventions is also being enhanced by measures designed to ensure appropriate
adaptation to local realities. In addition, the Government has taken several measures to increase the
efficiency of the program, such as consolidating the training originally provided by CONAFE within the
training programs provided by SEP. Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that the program continues to
be cost-effective.
- 73 -



Fiscal Impact. The table below shows the historical and projected federal expenditures on basic education
relative to total federal expenditures and GDP.
Table 19: Ex enditures in Education as a Share of GDP and Federal Expenses in current pesos
Federal        Total      Share of Basic    GDP       Share of Basic
Expenditures in  Programmable  Education                    Education
Fiscal Year  Basic Education   Federal         %       (M1NX $ billions)    %
(MNX $ billions) Expenditures
(MlNX $ billions)
1993           27.7         207.3          12.4          1,256.2         2.0
1994           33.7         249.9          13.5          1,40.2          2.4
1995           40.5          290.2         13.9          1,837.0         2.2
1996           54.3         404.1          13.4         2,525.6          2.2
1997           71.8          526.9         13.6         3,174.3          2.3
1998          101.3         600.0          16.9         3,846.4          2.6
1999          119.5         710.5          16.8         4,583.8          2.6
2000           144.7         863.7          16.8         5,432.4         2.7
2001 (*)        163.0         881.7          18.5         5,688.5         2.9
(*) Figures subject to revisions.
Source: Mexico, Presidencia de la Republica. Informe de Gobiemo. September 1, 2001.
Expenditures on basic education are expected to grow in the next several years, as the increased demand for
secondary education is met. To the extent that enrollments at the secondary level continue to rise, these
expenditures may rise further. Investment and recurrent expenditures resulting from the project are shown
in the table below:
Table 20: Project Cots as a Share of Federal Budget in Basic Education
Federal
Expenditures                       Project Costs
In Basic        Of which           As % of
Education       Project Costs      Expenditures
Fiscal Year  (MXN $ billions) (MXN $ billions)  In Basic Education
2002          180.6           0.257                  0.142
2003         199.1            0.260                  0.131
2004         217.4            0.244                  0.112
2005         235.2            0.244                  0.104
2006          247.0          0.093 (*)               0.038
Source: SEP, 2001
(*) Recurrent project costs, corresponding to an estimated 37% of total costs.
Assuming that recurrent costs (37%) of total project costs for Phase 2 and 3 would be continued beyond
project execution (replacement of materials, infrastructure maintenance, incentives programs, etc.),
recurrent costs would amount to about MXN $0.093 billion per year, or about 0.038% of projected total
- 74 -



federal expenditures in basic education for 2005. Therefore, neither the counterpart fund requirements nor
the incremental recurrent costs are likely to irnpose a significant fiscal burden.
End notes:
See, for example, World Bank, PAD, Basic Education Development Project, 1998, and L6pez-Acevedo, et al,
"The Evolution and Structure of the Rates of Returns to Education in Mexico 1987-1997): an Application of
Quantile Regression" in Mexico Earnings Inequality after Mexico's Economic and Educational Reform, World
Bank Report No. 19945-ME, Vol. 2, (2000).
2Lpez-Acevedo, et al, "Earnings Inequality and Education Attainment after Mexico's Economic Reforms", IBID.
The surveys were not conducted after 1995, making it impossible to evaluation the impact of the program over
time. This problem is being addressed by CONAFE and the SEP Department of Evaluation by correlating test
results with data routinely collected on schools by CONAFE.
A few unexpected results are noted: First, among students attending indigenous schools, greater self-esteem at
fifth grade and greater access to public services appear to be negatively correlated with performance. It has been
suggested that this puzzling result may be due to the complex (and sometimes conflictive) nature of indigenous
education. It may also be due to the excessive simplicity of the model already mentioned. Second, teachers'
performance does not appear to have a significant impact on improvement in test results, but the performance of
principals and supervisors does. This may be due to the generally poor quality of teaching in indigenous schools.
Finally, in the rural sub-sample, parental involvement in the school appears to be negatively correlated with
improvements in performance. One possible explanation for this is the possibility that parents of children at poorer
quality schools participate more in school affairs, perhaps in response to significant problems. In fact the more
isolated and poor a community, the more active parents have to be to get education services.
- 75 -



Annex 5: Financiai Summary
MEXICO: Basic Education Development Phase II
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
| Year 1| Year 2    | Year 3    Year 4  | Year 5| Year 6   | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs        166.6     165.5       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs          98.6      96.4       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs      265.2      261.9      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
,Total Financing          265.2     261.9       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA               150.0     150.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Government             115.2      111.9      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Central             115.2     111.9       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial                                0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers                                0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries                      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Others                                       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Others                                       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Others                                       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Others                                       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Others                                       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing  265.2     261.9       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
Years Ending December 31st.
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
I Year I  I Year2 2
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs        166.6     165.5
Recurrent Costs          98.6      96.4
Total Project Costs      265.2      261.9
Total Financing          265.2      261.9
Financing
IBRDIIDA               150.0     150.0
Government             115.2     111.9
Central             115.2     111.9
- 76 -



Total Project Financing      265.2       261.9
(a) The implementation period and the operational period are the same; therefore only one table is shown; (b)
recurrent costs include: consumable didactic materials, fund for school maintenance operated by the parents
associations, travel expenses of school supervisors to visit schools, and project administration; (c) all other
costs are classified as investment costs, namely, infrastructure and equipment, training, durable didactic
materials, and technical assistance for education evaluation, school mapping, studies, and basic education
innovation fund.
- 77 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MEXICO: Basic Education Development Phase 11
Procurement
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Procurement of works and goods financed by the World Bank under the project would be carried out in
accordance with World Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January
1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and the following
provisions of Section I of this Annex. The executing agency for the project will be the Consejo Nacional de
Fomento Educativo (CONAFE), the same institution that implemented Phase I of the Program.
Grouping of contracts. To the extend practicable contracts for goods and works shall be grouping in bid
packages estimated to cost US$ 10,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Notification and advertising. The General Procurement Notice to be published in the Development
Business, shall be updated annually for outstanding procurement. All invitation to bid shall be published in
the "Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n " and in COMPRANET In addition, invitation to bid for each
contract estimated to cost US$ 10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in the Development
Business in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the
Guidelines. To obtain expressions of interest for large consultant assignments (contracts expected to cost
more than US$ 200,000 equivalent) a specific procurement notice shall be also published in Development
Business.
Section I-Procurement Methods
The methods to be used for the procurement describe below, and the estimated amounts for each method,
are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Works. Works financed under this project would include construction, maintenance and
rehabilitation of about 22,600 educational facilities totaling US$ 95.5 million equivalent. These are small
works, distribute along the country and in very remote areas will require provision of materials and
community participation provided by the Parent Association. Because of community participation in cash
and/or in-kind labor contribution, normal procedures will be impractical to follow. These civil works
estimated to cost up to US$ 50,000.00 equivalent per contract would be procured under normal community
commercial practices acceptable to the Bank.
CONAFE has begun to develop design criteria, acceptable to the Bank, to be followed for the award of
these small contracts to ensure that: a) the quality of materials and workmanship is satisfactory and
acceptable, b) the prices of these materials and any inputs are reasonable and realistic, and c) the standards
and specifications governing these contracts are complied with fully. CONAFE's design criteria shall be
presented to the Bank before the Loan is declared Effective.
Works also may be constructed by the municipalities that will sign an agreement with CONAFE
satisfactory to the Bank accepting to procure the works following Bank's Guidelines and procedures.
CONAFE should present to the Bank a standard agreement before the Loan becomes Effective. These
works will be procured following National Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB), using Bank Standard
- 78 -



Bidding Documents (SBDs) agreed with the Bank; no ICB procedures will apply under this Loan because
the works to be financed won't be of the interest of foreign contractors mainly for the dispersion of the
works and the well developed construction industry in Mexico that guarantees an ample competition among
local contractors. Work costing less that US$500,000, up to an aggregated amount of US$ 10 million
equivalent may be procured through price comparison received in response to a written invitation to at least
three contractors. The written invitation will include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, and a basic contract form acceptable to the Bank. Community
participation contracts, costing less than US$ 350,000 equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this project will include education materials (books, basic
geometric sets, training materials, flip charts, typewriters, computers, software, opticl reading test forms,
and school furniture totaling US$49.5 million equivalent. Major contracts for these goods will be procured
following International Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB), using Bank Standard Bidding Documents
(SBDs). Contracts for optical reading test forms, estimated to cost up to US$ 2,000,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregated amount of US$4,000,000 equivalent, which the Bank agrees can only be
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, shall be procured through
limited international bidding. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 500,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregated amount of US$6.0 million equivalent of which Bank financing amounts to US$4.0
million equivalent, may be procured using National Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB) and agreed
Standard Bidding Documents. Contracts for goods that cannot be grouped into large bidding packages and
estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated amount of US$3.5
million equivalent of which Bank financing amounts to US$0.3 million equivalent, may be procured using
shopping (National or International) procedures based on a request form for quotations acceptable to the
Bank.
Section II - Employment of Consultants
Consultant services shall be procured in accordance with Guidelines for the use of Consultants by the
World Bank Borrowers and the Bank as Executing Agency (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999) and the following provisions of Section II of this Annex. Consultant services will be
contracted under this project in the following areas of expertise: training, design, construction supervision,
and institutional development. These services are estimated to cost US$227.0 million equivalent and would
be procured using World Bank Standard Request of Proposals.
Firms. All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS procedures except for small contracts for
assignments of standard or routing nature and estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent that
would be procure using LCS, up to an aggregate amount of US$216.0.
Individuals. Specialized advisory services would be provided by individuals consultants selected by
comparison of qualifications of at least three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 5.1 to 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregated amount of US$11.0.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants' services to be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraphs. The short list of consultants, estimated to cost
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Prior review: Each contract for works estimated to cost more than US$ 350,000 equivalent procurement
under NCB, and the first three contracts for goods procured under NCB, will be subject to prior review.
- 79 -



The prior review arrangements are presented in Table B.
Procurement plan. By November 2001, the Borrower shall present to the Bank for comments a
procurement plan for project implementation which provided the basis of the aggregate amounts for the
procurement methods. Each November, the Borrower would update the procurement schedule for the
following year, including the ICB procedures, the smaller procurement, the consultancy and training
services and the number and estimated costs of the sub-projects to be financed under the proposed loan
following the model procurement plan.
Section III - Procurement Responsibilities and Capacity
A procurement capacity assessment for the project was carried out by Ms. Lea Braslavsky, Country
Procurement Specialist, LCOPR, and approved by RPA on October 19, 2001. The National Development
Bank (Nacional Financiera-NAFIN), one of the three financial intermediary institutions of the Mexican
Govemment will be the borrower and will be responsible through its Special Financing Unit for: (i)
reviewing all procurement procedures and bid evaluation reports submitted by CONAFE, (ii) give the
no-objection for the award of contracts below the agreed threshold for Bank prior review; and (iii)
maintaining all the corresponding records. NAFIN's performance under previous project was satisfactory.
The Bank's Implementation Unit in Mexico will provide procurement advice to CONAFE and NAFIN as
required and carried out the Bank's fiduciary functions delegated to it.
To assess CONAFE' s procurement capabilities and possible risk on the implementation of the proposed
project, a Bank's mission visited the CPU in Mexico City and four states offices (Guanajuato, Puebla,
Veracruz and Zacatecas). These offices have ample experience in Bank operation because they satisfactory
executed Phase I of the Program.
CONAFE through its State Delegations will carry out all procurement activities for the project and a CPU
established in Mexico City during the previous project was in charge of preparing this phase. To ensure
CONAFE's staff knowledge of World Bank procurement Guidelines and procedures, several procurement
seminars were given by the Mexico Resident Mission to CONAFE's staff, of most of them from the
CONAFE Delegations, during the implementation of the first project.
During project preparation, NAFIN and CONAFE have confirmed their will for ethical behavior and have
expressed their commitment to adhere to competitive selection and transparency in all activities. The
Operational Manual will include a chapter call "Code of Ethic" Based on the above procurement risk for
the project is rated as "average".
Section IV: Procurement Monitoring
The CPU will prepare annually a Procurement Plan satisfactory to the World Bank and establish
procedures for monitoring project execution and impact, procurement implementation, including monitoring
of contracts. The CPU as well as NAFIN will maintain detailed records of procurement activities.
Review by the Bank The proposed threshold for prior review by the World Bank are based on the
procurement assessment of the project executive agency and are summarized in Table B. In addition to this
review of individual procurement actions, the annual procurement plan will be reviewed and approved by
the Bank, as well as procurement audits to be carried out during the life of the project.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision. Based on the overall risk assessment (average) the post-review
- 80 -



mission for the project shall be completed every 12 months and shall cover not less than 1 in 20 contracts
signed.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
2
Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB         Other        N.B.F.3   Total Cost
1. Works                                                        95.50                    95.50
o               ()        (71.60)         (         (71.60)
2. Goods                           49.50           6.00          3.50        54.00       113.00
(40.00)         (4.00)        (0.30)         0        (44.30)
3. Services                                                     160.40        44.6      205.00
o)             ()         (120.30)      (0.00)     (120.30)
4. School Grants                                                66.60                    66.60
o)             ()          (56.00)        (         (56.00)
5. Operating Costs                                              48.00                    48.00
()     -        0()        (4.80)         ()        (4.80)
Front-end fee                                                    3.00                     3.00
o)             0)          (3.00)         ()        (3.00)
Total                           49.50           6.00         377.00        98.60      531.10
(40.00)         (4.00)       (256.00)      (0.00)    (300.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management offices, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to managing the project.
3/Includes consumable educational supplies and primary teacher's incentives.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                   Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category   (US$ thousands)        Method                   (US$ millions)
1. Works               <350,000                Lump-sum fixed-price     First three
contracts
2. Goods               >500,000                ICB, LIB                 All
50,000-500,000           NCB                     First three
<50,000                 IS or NS (3 Quotations)  None
3. Services
- 81 -



Individual Consultants >50,000               Individual Consultants  All
<50,000                 Individual Consultants  None
Consulting Firms     >100,000                QCBS                    All
<100,000                 QCBS                   Only TORs
4. Operating Costs     N/A                     N/A                     None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:              US$ 324.0 million
equivalent
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 82 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceed
Expenditure Cate             Amount in US$ million        Financing Percentage
1. Works                                 70.00                         75
2. Goods                                 43.30                         75
3. Consultant Services and               118.00                        75
Training
4. School Grants                         55.00                         84
4. Operating Costs                       4.70                          10
Unallocated                            6.00
Fee                                    3.00             Amount due under Section 2.04 of the
Loan Agreement
TOTAL                         300.00
Special Account. A Special Account in US dollars would be established at the Banco de Mexico. The
authorized allocation is US$30.00 million, which will be limited at the early stage of the project to an initial
deposit of US$10.00 million. When the aggregate disbursements under the loan have reached US$20.00
million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation. The Special Account will be
monthly replenished and will be used for all transactions eligible for financing from the loan.
Retroactive Financing. The Bank has agreed to finance retroactively eligible project expenditures
incurred as of November 1, 2001, up to 10 percent of the loan amount.
Financial Management. The financial management assessment (FMA) was carried out in May 14 through
August 23, 2001, and updated on December 3, 2001. This assessment focused on the project's accounting
system, internal controls, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an auditor as well
as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be quarterly prepared by
CONAFE and submitted by the 30th. of January, April, July and October of each year. The FMA revealed
that CONAFE cannot presently produce PMRs. (See World Bank, 2001, "Mexico Basic Education
Development Phase II, Summary Risk Assessment Report on Financial Management," in the Project File).
After FMA discussions were initiated between CONAFE and the Bank, it was observed that neither PMR
nor FMR can be generated to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information as
required by the Bank. Nevertheless, CONAFE meets minimum. Bank financial management requirements,
and an action plan to strengthen the MIS was agreed. The action plan focused on PMR but will be
adjusted to concentrate on FMRs, which were recommended for CONAFE as they fit better with its needs
of information for project management. These reports eventually will be used as supporting documentation
for disbursements, contingent upon (i) agreement and (ii) compliance of Bank requirements.
Use of Statements of Expenditure. Traditional disbursement methods (SOEs, special commitments and
direct payments) will be used until CONAFE and NAFIN are ready to adopt the FMRs-based disbursement
methodology. NAFIN, as the financial agency for the project, would prepare the necessary documentation
for prompt disbursements. Considering the size of the contracts, all works, operating expenditures and
most of the consultant services, are expected to be disbursed through SOEs. Full supporting documentation
will be required for all contracts for goods above US$ 500,000.00, works above US$ 350,000.00 except
- 83 -



for the first three contracts to be consistent with the prior review threshold, consultant firm contracts above
US$ 100,000.00, and individual consultant contracts above US$ 50,000.00. All expenditures for training
and operating costs will be disbursed by SOE.
CONAFE would maintain, for one year after the year in which the last disbursement takes place, all
supporting documentation and separate project records, to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures of each project activity. Independent annual audit will
be carried out based on: (i) Intemnational Standards on Auditing; (ii) current Memorandum of Technical
Understanding on Auditing -MET; and (iii) applicable Bank'Cs guidelines. The report will be submitted to
the Bank within the six months after the end of each year.
Frequency of financial management supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months(includes the
review an follow-up of annual audit reports).
TABLE D: Disbursement Schedule
(UJS$ million equivalent)
Bank FY            Quarter Ending      Appraisal Estimate        Cumulative
FY 2002 (a)           Mar 31, 2002              80.0                  80.0
June 30, 2002             25.0                  105.0
FY 2003             Sept 30, 2002             25.0                  130.0
Dec 31, 2002              25.0                  155.0
________________    Mar 31,2003               25.0                  180.0
June 30, 2003             25.0                  205.0
FY 2004             Sept 30, 2003             25.0                  230.0
Dec 31,2003               25.0                  255.0
Mar 31,2004               25.0                  280.0
__________________  June 30, 2004             20.0                  300.0
(a) Includes retroactive financing and first deposit in the Special Account.
- 84 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MEXICO: Basic Education Development Phase 11
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                  15
First Bank mission (identification)                                         07/31/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     11/14/2001                   11/28/2001
Negotiations                                    11/26/2001                  02/04/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/25/2002
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Eduardo Velez Bustillo            Education Specialist
Constance Corbett                 Economist
Anna Sant'Anna                    Sociologist
Lea Braslavsky                    Sr. Procurement Specialist
Victor Ordofiez                   Financial Management Specialist
Maria-Valeria Junho Pena          Lead Sociologist
Ricardo Hemandez                  Environment Specialist
Issam A. Abousleiman              Sr. Disbursement Officer
Mariangeles Sabella               Country Lawyer
Joseph Shapiro                    Summer Intern
Julie B. Nannucci                 Language Program Assistant
Gizella Diaz                      Language Team Assistant
- 85 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MEXICO: Basic Education Development Phase II
A. Project Implementation Plan
CONAFE (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo). 1998. "Plan de Implementaci6n - Fase I".
--------- 2001. "Plan de Implementaci6n - Fase II".
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Junho-Pena, Nahmad, Albano, Aranda & Nielsen. June 1997. Draft. Evaluaci6n Rdpida de la Educaci6n
Indigena en los Estados de Oaxaca y Chiapas para el Proyecto de Educaci6n Bdsica III en
Mexico.
World Bank. Mexico CAS. 1996, updated March 6, 1998. Report No. R-99-49. November 25.
1997. ICR Mexico: Initial Education Project-Ln-3518-ME. Report No. 17192. October 30.
--------- 1998. ICR Mexico: Primary Education Project - Ln-3407-ME. Report No. 17303. January 20.
--------- 1998a. Project Appraisal Document for a Basic Education Development (PAREIB) Project. Report
No. 17535-ME.
--------- 1999. Poverty Assessment for Mexico.
2001. Indigenous Peoples, Ethnic Identity and Poverty in Mexico Urban Profile: An Exploratory
Study. Green Cover. Report No. 22054-ME. June 12.
--------- 2001a. Mexico: Basic Education -evelopment Phase LI, Summary Risk Assessment Report on
Financial Management. Decembert31
C. Other
Centro de Estudios Educativos. 1994. "Evaluaci6n del Impacto y Efectividad de Costos del Programa para
Abatir el Rezago Educativo (PARE)". Informe Ejecutivo.
--------- 1996. "Principales Resultados y Recomendaciones de la Evaluaci6n del PARE". February 2.
Centro de Investigaci6n y de Estudios Avanzados (Cinvestav). 1996. February.
CONAFE (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo). 1994. Sistema de Gesti6n Financiera del CONAFE y
a Nivel Estatal. Lineamientos Para La Presentaci6n, Informaci6n Financiera Por Parte De Las
Unidades Estatales De Programas Compensatorios. January.
--------- (1996-2000). Database. Indigenous Schools Receiving CONAFE Support.
--------- 1997a. "Esquema Metodol6gico de Focalizaci6n e Integralidad desarrollado en el Programa para
Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Inicial y Basica PAREIB."
--------- 1997b. "Las Practicas Escolares y Docentes en las Escuelas Multigrado de la Educaci6n
Primaria".
--------- 1997c. "Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Inicial y Basica - PAREIB". Sumario
Propuestas Estatales.
--------- 1997d. Proyecto: Diagn6sico y Actualizacion de Sistemas de Trabajo y Disefio del Programa
Estatal de Fortalecimiento Institucional -Propuesta Tecnica. CENCADE Quintana Roo / Unidad
Coordinadora Estatal para Abatir el Rezago Educativo del Estado de Q.R. January.
--------- 1998a. "Evaluaci6n del Aprendizaje en la Educaci6n Basica - Antecedentes y Resultados" January
23.
--------- 1998b. trNormas para asignar el Reconocimiento al Desempefio Docente a Escuelas Multigrado de
Educaci6n Primaria General e Indigena."
--------- 1998c. "Propuesta para la Reestructuraci6n del Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n
Inicial y Basica (PAREIB)". March.
- 86 -



--------- 1998d. Sistema De Gesti6n Financiera Del CONAFE Y A Nivel Estatal, Esquema De Operaci6n
De Los Programas Compensatorios. May.
--------- 1998e. Sistema de Gesti6n Financiera del CONAFE y a Nivel Estatal, Mecanismo de Operaci6n
Financiera De Proyectos Financiados Por Organismos Multilaterales. April.
--------- 1998f. "Subcomponente 1.2.1. Proyecto Escolar: Una Estrategia para Transformar Las Escuelas"
March.
--------- 1998g. "Subcomponente 11.1 Consolidaci6n de los Sistemas Estatales de Evaluaci6n Educativa".
March.
--------- 1998h. "Subcomponente 11.1.3. Estudios. Proyecto: Modelo de Educaci6n Primaria para Nifios
Jomaleros Agricolas Migrantes". March.
--------- 1998i. "Subcomponente 11.1.3. Estudios. Proyecto: Modelo de Educaci6n Primaria para Poblaci6n
de Grupo de Edad 9-14 de Zonas Urbanas." March.
--------- 1999. Direcci6n General De Educaci6n Indigena, Didactica Bilingiie, Oralidad en Lengua Materna,
Manual Del Maestro, Primaria Indigena. August.
--------- 2000a. Acciones Bajo los Subcomponentes de Capacitacion Gerencial y Asistencia Tecnica.
Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las competencias basicas, El trabajo en el aula,
Manual del Maestro, Primaria General. 1998,1999 y 2000 (Resumen Ejecutivo). August 19.
--------- 2000b. Acciones y metas 98-2000 del Subcomponente I.1.- Mejoramiento de la Calidad De Los
Servicios De Educaci6n Inicial Y Basica. Compromisos del PAD y Avance De Acciones Y Metas.
August.
--------- 2000c. Analisis Comparativo De Indicadores Educativos Entre Escuelas Primarias Atendidas Por
Acciones Compensatorias Versus Escuelas Primarias No Atendidas, Contrastaci6n con La Media
Estatal Y Media Nacional, PARE/PAREB. June.
--------- 2000d. Avance de la Ejecuci6n Fisica, Metas Acumuladas desde el inicio del proyecto hasta el 31
de Octubre 2000, PAREIB. Programas Compensatorios. November.
--------- 2000e. Avances del Modelo De Proyectos. Coordinaci6n de Programas Compensatorios,
Subdirecci6n De Contenidos, Metodos y Materiales. November.
--------- 2000f. Colegiado Nacional del Proyecto Posprimaria, Relatoria de la Mesa: El Futuro de la
Posprimaria. November.
--------- 2000g. Direcci6n General De Educaci6n Indigena, Didactica Bilingiie, Alfabetizaci6n en Lengua
Materna, Manual del Maestro, Primaria Indigena. March.
--------- 2000h. DidActica Bilingile, Manual del Maestro, Primaria Indigena, Lectoescritura en Lengua
Matema. Direcci6n General De Educaci6n Indigena. October.
--------- 2000i. Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las Competencias Basicas, El Trabajo en el
Aula, Bitacora de Clases. August.
---------- 2000j. Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las competencias Basicas, El trabajo en el
aula, Manual del Maestro, Primaria Indigena. September.
--------- 2000k. Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las competencias Basicas, El trabajo en el
aula, Manual del Supervisor, Primaria General. September.
--------- 20001. Docencia Rural, Proyecto Escolar para Mejorar las competencias BAsicas, El trabajo en el
aula, Manual del Supervisor, Primaria Indigena. September.
--------- 2000m. Equidad y Calidad en la Educaci6n Basica, la experiencia del CONAFE y la
Telesecundaria en Mexico. November.
--------- 2000n. Focalizaci6n del Universo de Atencion Compensatoria. Documento preparado para la
UCE's Direcci6n de planeaci6n CONAFE. Validaci6n de los Datos Contenidos En El Universo De
Atenci6n Focalizado De Cada Entidad Federativa. October 27.
--------- 2000o. "indices de Permanencia y Rotaci6n de Docentes Incentivados en el Estado de Hidalgo,
Chiapas, Guerrero, Oaxaca, Campeche, Durango, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Michoacan, Puebla, San Luis
Potosi, Tabasco, Veracruz, Yucatan". February.
- 87 -



--------- 2000p. Informe de Actividades PAREB 1999. Programas Compensatorios. February.
--------- 2000q. Informe de Avances del Modelo de Posprimaria. August.
--------- 2000r. Infonne de Avances del Subcomponente 11.2 Planes Estrategicos Rectores. August.
--------- 2000s. Informe del Estudio: Disenlo de una modalidad de atenci6n para poblaci6n infantil agricola
migrante. Direcci6n General de Investigaci6n Educativa (DGIE) de la Subsecretaria de Educaci6n
Basica y Normal (SEByN). August.
--------- 2000t. Informe de los Avances del Proyecto Escolar: Una estrategia para transformar las escuelas
DGIE de la SEByN. August.
--------- 2000u. Inicio de cursos 2000-2001, Localidades con 2,500 habitantes o menos, datos obtenidos del
catalogo de centros de trabajo de inicio de cursos 2000-2001. Educaci6n primaria, educaci6n primaria
rural /urbana.   Repiiblica Mexicana, ciclo escolar 2001-2002.
--------- 2000v. Intervenci6n educativa con nifias y nifios indigenas que asisten a escuelas primarias
generales. Experiencias de los estados de Nuevo Le6n y Guanajuato. August.
---------- 2000w. La Acci6n Compensatoria, Resultados desagregados de indicadores educativos, serie
hist6rica, Total PARE, Chiapas, Guerrero e Hidalgo. November.
---------- 2000x. La Acci6n Compensatoria, Resultados desagregados de indicadores educativos, serie
hist6rica, Total PAREB, Campeche, Durango, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Michoacan, Oaxaca, Puebla, SLP,
Tabasco, Veracruz y Yucatan. November.
--------- 2000y. La Educaci6n Inicial dentro de los Programas Compensatorios.
---------- 2000z. La Posprimaria al Lado De Otros Servicios En Las Comunidades. November.
--------- 2000aa. Lineamientos Generales Para La Operaci6n Del Proyecto Posprimaria, Comunitaria
Rural. April.
--------- 2000ab. Lineamientos Para El Otorgamiento De Recursos Financieros, Gastos A Comprobar En
Oficinas Centrales. Sistema de Gesti6n Financiera del CONAFE y a nivel estatal. June.
--------- 2000ac. Memoria de la Gesti6n 1995-2000. October.
--------- 2000ad. Metas Acumuladas desde la reestructuraci6n del proyecto hasta el 31 de octubre del 2000
/ PAREB. Programas Compensatorios. November.
--------- 2000ae. Metas POA 2001. Programas Compensatorios. November.
--------- 2000af. Metas y Logros de Ejecuci6n PAREB, Reestructuraci6n de los Proyectos PAREB y
PRODEI, Metas de Ejecuci6n del programa hasta 2001. Programas Compensatorios, Subdirecci6n de
Informaci6n y Seguimiento. June.
--------- 2000ag. PAREIB / Lineamientos para el componente 11.2, Fortalecimiento de la Capacidad De
Gesti6n Institucional De Caracter Estatal. November.
--------- 2000ah. PAREIB Necesidades de Infraestructura, Educaci6n General. Direcci6n De Planeaci6n.
Documento Interno de Trabajo. November 11.
--------- 2000ai. Plan Estrategico Rector, Yucatan, Durango, Nayarit, Queretaro, Quintana Roo, San Luis
Potosi, Sinaloa. Direcci6n De la Unidad de los Programas Compensatorios, Subdirecci6n de
Fortalecimiento Institucional. October.
--------- 2000aj. Posprimaria Colegiado Nacional Relatoria de la Mesa: La Posprimaria y la Educaci6n
Comunitaria. November 23.
---------- 2000ak. Posprimaria Comunitaria Rural, Reporte de Evaluaci6n. November.
---------- 2000al. Posprimaria, Delegaci6n San Luis Potosi, Mesa 4, El Futuro de la Posprimaria.
November.
---------- 2000am. Posprimaria Delegaci6n San Luis Potosi, Mesa 4, La Posprimaria dentro del CONAFE.
November.
--------- 2000an. Proyecto de Modemizaci6n De La Supervisi6n Escolar En Primaria Rural. Estados
Unidos Mexicanos. Estadistica Basica del Sistema Educativo, Preescolar Y Primaria, Fin De Cursos
1999 - 2000, medios urbano y rural. February.
--------- 2000ao. Resultados del ejercicio de analisis y reflexi6n sobre los procesos, procedimientos, logros,
- 88 -



debilidades y propuestas para eficientar y mejorar el quehacer institucional de la
UCE-PAREB-GUERRERO. Gobierno del Estado Libre y Soberano de Guerrero, Unidad
Coordinadora Estatal del PAREB, Chilpancingo, Guerrero. October.
--------- 2000ap. Reuni6n Regional de Evaluaci6n, SEDE: Tijuana Baja California. Sistema Educativo
Estatal en Baja California, Coordinaci6n de Programas Compensatorios / PIARE. September 20.
--------- 2000aq. Universo de atenci6n PAREIB (4333-ME ) para el 2001. August.
--------- 2000ar. Tres Afios de Posprimaria, Comunitaria Rural, Mexico. October.
--------- 2001a. Avance de la Ejecuci6n Fisica, Metas Acumuladas desde el inicio del proyecto hasta el 31
de diciembre del 2000, PAREIB. Programas Compensatorios. February.
--------- 2001b. Ciclo escolar 2001-2002. Componente Recursos Didacticos, Integraci6n De Paquetes Con
Costo De Granel, Sede Veracruz y Jalisco, 10. Al 60. Grado paquete A. Componente Recursos
didacticos integraci6n de paquetes ciclo escolar 2001-2002, paquete A del 10. Al 60. Grado. Unidad de
Programas Compensatorios.
--------- 2001c. Ciclo escolar 2001-2002. PAREB, Componente Recursos Didacticos, Auxiliares
Didacticos para Escuela Primaria. Unidad de Programas Compensatorios.
--------- 2001d. Ciclo escolar 2001-2002. PAREIB Componente: Recursos DidActicos, Auxiliares
DidActicos Para Escuelas Tele-Secundaria. Coordinaci6n De Programas Compensatorios, Area De
Recursos Didacticos, Biblioteca Basica Para Tele-Secundarias, Ciclo Escolar 2001-2002. Unidad de
Programas Compensatorios.
--------- 2001e. Descripci6n De Acciones Compensatorias A Realizar En Los Pr6ximos Tres Afios Por
Subcomponente. Niveles Para La Difusi6n Y Uso De Resultados De Evaluaci6n En Las Entidades.
DEI/174/01. July.
--------- 2001f. Indicadores Educativos PAREB, Campeche, Chiapas, Durango, Guanajuato, Guerrero,
Hidalgo, Jalisco, Michoacan, Oaxaca, Puebla, San Luis Potosi, Tabasco, Veracruz, Yucatan.
February.
--------- 2001g. Matricula. Maestros Y Escuelas De La Educaci6n Basica Por Tipo De Servicio
(1990-2001). May.
--------- 2001h. Metas Acumuladas desde la reestructuraci6n del proyecto hasta el 31 de diciembre del
2000, PAREB. February.
--------- 2001i. PAREIB, Cedula de Registro Escolar, Diagn6stico de Necesidades De Atenci6n
Compensatoria, Red de Asesoria para la Calidad Educativa, Control de Universo de Atenci6n. Unidad
de Programas Compensatorios.
--------- 200 lj. PAREIB fase 2, Descripci6n De Subcomponentes. July.
--------- 2001k. PAREIB Metas Acumuladas 1998-2001 y Metas Programas 2001. May.
--------- 20011. PAREIB. Proyecto de Modernizaci6n De La Supervisi6n Escolar En Primaria Rural:
"Modelo de Gesti6n por Proyectos Escolares". Unidad de Programas Compensatorios. June.
--------- 2001m. PAREIB, Red De Asesoria Para La Calidad Educativa / Reestructuraci6n Del Programa
Compensatorio De Capacitaci6n A Docentes Y Directivos Del Medio Rural. Direcci6n de Programas
Compensatorios. June.
--------- 2001n. PAREIB Universo de Atenci6n 1998-2000. 2001 (Fase 1). May.
--------- 2001o. "Perfil profesional de los grupos tecnicos estatales, actualizado en cuarta reuni6n". June.
--------- 2001p. Propuesta de Capacitaci6n con Banco Mundial. February.
--------- 2001 q. Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Inicial y Basica Fase 2, Descripci6n De Las
Acciones Compensatorias, Proyecto De Atenci6n Integral "Redes Estatales De Asesoria Para La
Calidad Educativa". July.
--------- 2001r. Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Inicial y Basica Fase 2, Descripci6n De Las
Acciones Compensatorias, Proyecto De Atenci6n Integral "Sistema de Capacitaci6n Profesional En
Linea Para Docentes, Directivos Y Asesores Pedag6gicos De Educaci6n Basica En El Medio Rural E
Indigena". July.
- 89 -



---- 2001s. Programa Para Abatir El Rezago En Educaci6n Inicial Y Basica (PAREIB), segunda fase
2002-2005 (ciclos escolares 2002-2003, 2003-2004, 2004-2005) junio de 2001, Programa de
Educaci6n Inicial No Escolarizada. Unidad De Programas Compensatorios. Direcci6n De Educaci6n
Inicial. July.
--------- 2001t. "Reconocimiento al Desempenio Docente, Ejercicio Fiscal 2001 y Ciclo Escolar
2000-2001". May.
--------- 2001u. Red de Asesoria para la Calidad Educativa. Unidad de Programas Compensatorios. June.
--------- 2001v. Utiles Escolares. Cuadro Comparativo General. Costos promedios De Granel Y Paquete.
Unidad de Programas Compensatorios. July.
--------- n.d. APL Coverage Targets - Component 1. 1998-2007.
--------- n.d. CREFAL, Programa de Apoyo a la Gesti6n Escolar (AGE), Resultados de la Investigaci6n
sobre el Imnpacto en el Involucramiento de los Padres de Familia hacia la Educaci6n de sus Hijos.
--------- n.d. Evaluaci6n del PAREB - Durango (CD-ROM) presentaci6n en PowerPoint y Evaluaci6n
Interestatal del PAREB. Durango, Campeche- (archivo).
David A. Tumer. 2000. Posprimaria Comunitaria Rural, Reporte de la Evaluaci6n, Versi6n provisional
para las discusiones en el Colegiado de los dias en oficinas centrales del CONAFE. November 22-24.
Despacho Prieto, Ruiz de Velasco y Cia., S.C. n.d. "Prestamo 4333-ME, Informe de Auditoria al 31 de
diciembre de 1999".
--------- n.d. "Prestamo 4333-ME, Informe de Auditoria al 31 de diciembre de 2000".
Educaci6n y Prospectiva, S.C. 1998. "Informe Final del Estudio sobre la Atenci6n a la Demanda Social de
Educaci6n Basica en las Entidades Federativas". March 6.
Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Geografia, y Informatica (2001). XMI Censo General de Poblaci6n y
Vivienda. Mexico.
Instituto Nacional Indigenista (1997). "Perfil Indigena de Mexico." <<http://www.ini.gob.mx.>>
--------- 2000. Estado del desarrollo econ6mico y social de los pueblos indigenas de Mexico. Mexico.
Instituto Tecnol6gico Forestal. 2001. Programa de Tecnologia de la Madera: Construcci6n de Aulas de
Madera, El Salto. Durango. May.
Gobierno Constitucional del Estado de Oaxaca. n.d. Evaluaci6n y Seguimiento del Aprendizaje de
Alumnos de Tele-secundarias. Instituto Estatal de Educaci6n  uiblica de Oaxaca. Coordinaci6n
General de Planeaci6n Educativa, Subdirecci6n de Evaluaci6n, Departamento de Evaluaci6n.
Quintanilla, Amelia Rebeca de los Santos (2001). Doctoral Thesis. "Factores que Indicen en el
Rendimiento Escolar en Educaci6n Primaria Indigena en la Republica Mexicana." Universidad
Complutense de Madrid.
Schmelkes, Sylvia (2001). "Education and Indian Peoples in Mexico: An Example of Policy Failure." In
Reimers, Femando (Ed.). Unequal Schools, Unequal Chances: The Challenges to Equal Opportunity
in the Americas, Harvard.
SEP (Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica). 1997. Informe de Curso de Planeaci6n Estrategica, Instituto
Estatal de Educaci6n Publica de Oaxaca IEEPO. CENCADE Oaxaca. June 24-28.
--------- 1997a. Informe de Resultados y Productos del Proyecto: Capacitaci6n para la Gerencia Educativa
1996-1998. CENCADE/TABASCO - Secretaria de Educaci6n del Estado de Tabasco. September.
--------- 1997b. Informe de Resultados y Productos del Proyecto: Diagn6stico y Actualizaci6n de Sistemas
de Trabajo y Diseino del Programa Estatal de Fortalecimiento Institucional. CENCADE/COLIMA -
Secretaria de Educaci6n, Cultura y Deporte del Gobiemo del Estado de Colima. May 7.
--------- 1997c. Informe de Resultados y Productos del Proyecto: Diagn6stico y Actualizacion de Sistemas
de Trabajo y Diseiio del Programa Estatal de Fortalecimiento Institucional. CENCADE Sonora /
Secretaria de Educaci6n y Cultura del Gobiemo del Estado de Sonora. May 7.
---------1997d. Informe de Resultados y Productos del Proyecto: Servicios de Consultoria Especializada
para la Implementaci6n del Programa para la Gerencia Educativa 1997-1998, la. Fase Propuesta
Tecnica, Mexico, D.F. CENCADE Guerrero / Secretaria de Educaci6n Guerrero. February.
- 90 -



--------- 1997e. "Programa de Desarrollo Educativo 1995-2000". Poder Ejecutivo Federal. Secretaria de
Educaci6n Publica (SEP), Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n y Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de
Evaluaci6n Direcci6n de Evaluaci6n del Proceso Educativo.
-------- 1998a. Informe de Resultados y Productos del Proyecto: Mejoramiento de Sistemas de Trabajo
Dentro del Programa de Capacitaci6n para la Gerencia Educativa, Anexo: Documentaci6n de Procesos
mejorados. Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica del Estado de Colima. May.
--------- 1998b. Tomo I Colima, Informe De Resultados Y Productos Del Proyecto: Mejoramiento Del
Sistema De Trabajo Dentro Del Programa De Capacitaci6n Para La Gerencia Educativa. Secretaria de
Educaci6n Publica del Estado de Colima. May.
--------- 1999. "Los Resultados Academicos en los Estados PARE, una comparaci6n en el tiempo".
October.
--------- 2000a. Distribuci6n De Los Planteles Publicos De Educaci6n Primaria Y Secundaria, Segun El
Nivel De Aciertos De Sus Alumnos En Los Examenes De Carrera Magisterial. Subsecretaria de
Planeaci6n y Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n. August.
--------- 2000b. Estudio Cualitativo, Las Escuelas Primarias Rurales Y Los Apoyos De Los Programas
Compensatorios: Reporte Final Del Primer Estudio/Diplomado Sobre Bases Metodol6gicas De
Investigaci6n Cualitativa. Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa, Evaluaci6n de la Educaci6n
Primaria, Vertiente de Seguimiento.
---------- 2000c. Informe Proyecto De Intervenci6n Educativa Con Nifias Y Ninios Indigenas Que Asisten A
Escuelas Generales Y Proyecto De Intervenci6n Educativa Con Ninias Y Ninios Indigenas Que Asisten
A Escuelas Primarias Generales En El Estado De Nuevo Le6n. Subsecretaria de Educaci6n Basica y
Normal, Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Indigena. October.
--------- 2000d. "Programa Nino Creativo: Una Experiencia Multigrado". Subdirecci6n de Educaci6n
Primaria, Estado de Durango.
--------- 2000e. PAREIB, Universo De Atenci6n De La Primera Fase. Direcci6n de Planeaci6n, Secretaria
Tecnica. May 17.
--------- 2000f. PAREIB Subcomponente III.1 Fortalecimiento De La Capacidad De Gesti6n Institucional
De Caracter Federal, Consolidaci6n De Los Sistemas Estatales De Evaluaci6n Educativa.
Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n y Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n. October.
--------- 2000g. Resultados de Estudios Etnograficos en Educaci6n Primaria, Estrategia de Difusi6n.
Secretaria de Educaci6n y Cultura, Gobierno del Estado Veracruz-Llave. November.
--------- 2001. "Evaluaci6n De La Educaci6n Preescolar Inicial No Escolarizada, Primaria Y Secundaria".
Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa, Direcci6n General De Evaluaci6n, Direcci6n De
Evaluaci6n Del Proceso Educativo. July.
General Studies and Reports
Diario Oficial. 2001. "Reglas de Operaci6n e Indicadores de Gesti6n y Evaluaci6n del Programa de
Escuelas de Calidad". Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica. April 3.
Secretaria de Desarrollo Social. 2001. CONTIGO: Programa Nacional de Atenci6n a 250 Microregiones.
May.
Secretaria De Educaci6n, Cultura y Bienestar Social, Estado de Mexico. 2000. Plan Estrategico Rector.
November.
Secretaria de Educaci6n y Cultura, Gobierno del Estado de Veracruz-Llave. n.d. SICORE Manual de
Instalaci6n y Operaci6n, Versi6n 1.0, Aprovechamiento Escolar.
--------- 2000. CD/SICORE/Sistema de Consulta de Resultados de Evaluaci6n, Aprovechamiento Escolar,
Versi6n 1.0.
--------- 2000. CD/SISAR - Sistema de Administraci6n de Reactivos, Versi6n para Primarias, Versi6n 1.0.
--------- n.d. SISAR, Manual de Instalaci6n y Operaci6n, versi6n 1.0, Coordinaci6n Estatal de Evaluaci6n.
Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica (SEP). n.d. Contribuci6n De La Direcci6n General De Evaluaci6n De La
-91



SEP A La Mejoria De La Calidad De La Educaci6n Basica Mexicana.
--------- n.d. Debilidades Y Fortalezas En Habilidad Verbal, Matematica Y Para El Razonamiento
Abstracto Que Presentan Los Alumnos Egresados De Educaci6n Primaria En El Estado De Tlaxcala.
--------- n.d. Evaluaci6n de la Educaci6n, Visi6n Estrategica y Objetivos Deseables de los Organismos
Responsables.
--------- n.d. Memoria del quehacer educativo I 1995-2000, "Hacia una cultura de la evaluaci6n
1994-2000".
--------- n.d. Presentaci6n Grafica Minidisc. Subdirecci6n de Evaluaci6n e Informaci6n Educativa, Sistema
Integral de Informaci6n Educativa, SCIE Colima.
--------- n.d. Taller Nacional de AnAlisis de Resultados, Compilaci6n de los Informes Finales, Ciudad de
Mexico. Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n y Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n, Direcci6n de
Evaluaci6n del Proceso Educativo, Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa.
--------- 1996-2000. Database. Test Scores on EVEP from a National Sample of Indigenous Sixth Grade
Students.
--------- 1999. Informe de Labores 1998-1999. November.
--------- 2000a. Aspectos De Las Escuelas Publicas Mexicanas Exitosas, Encontrados A Partir De
Evaluaciones Cualitativas. Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa, Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n y
Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n. December.
--------- 2000b. C6mo transformar las escuelas?: Lecciones desde la gesti6n escolar y la practica
pedag6gica, Segundo estudio/diplomado de la vertiente de seguimiento del programa de evaluaci6n de
la calidad de la educaci6n primaria, Reporte Final, Aguascalientes, Baja Califomia, Campeche,
Coahuila, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacan, Nayarit, Puebla, Queretaro, Tlaxcala, Tamaulipas,
Yucatan, Zacatecas. Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n y Coordinaci6n, Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n.
October.
--------- 2000c. Evaluaci6n de la Educaci6n Primaria, Vertiente de Seguimiento, Estudio Cualitativo,
Informe Final, Estado I-Colima, Estado 2-Chihuahua, Estado 3-Durango, Estado 4-Guanajuato,
Estado 5-Quintana Roo, Estado 6-San Luis Potosi, Estado 7-Sinaloa, Estado 8-Sonora, Estado
9-Tabasco, Estado 10-Veracruz. Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa.
--------- 2000d. Informe de Labores 1999-2000. November.
--------- 2000e. Informe de los avances de: Planeaci6n Territorial. Direcci6n General de Planeaci6n
Programaci6n y Presupuesto (DGPPP). August.
--------- 2000f. Programa para la Instalaci6n y Fortalecimiento de las Areas Estatales de Evaluaci6n,
Balance General del Establecimiento y Operaci6n. Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n, Direcci6n de
Evaluaci6n del Proceso Educativo, Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa. October.
--------- 2001. Perfil de la Educaci6n en Mexico. February.
--------- 200 la. Programa Nacional de Educaci6n 2001 - 2006.
Rodolfo Ramirez Raymundo. n.d. Por Una Nueva Escuela Publica.
Victor Manuel VelAsquez Castafieda. n.d. "La Transformaci6n de la gesti6n escolar: factor clave para
mejorar la calidad de la educaci6n".
*Including electronic files
- 92 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MEXICO: Basic Education Development Phase 11
06-Feb-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frm Revd
P060577        2002 MX Southeast Reg'l Development LIL                 5.00      0.00                 o.00       0.00      5.00       0.00       0.00
P065779        2001 FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT              218.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    211.93      -6.07       0.00
P064887        2001 DISASTER MANAGEMENT (ERL)                        404.05      0.00                 0.00       0.00    396.15      38.77       0.00
P060908        2001 GEF MX-MESO AMERICAN CORRIDOR                      0.00      0.00                14.84       0.00     14.28       2.55       0.00
P066321        2001 MX: III BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT                350.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    350.00       0.00       0.00
P071323        2001 Bank Restructuring Facility II                   505.06      0.00                 0.00       0.00    505.06      51.69       0.00
P070479        2001 MX Edo.de Mexico Structural Adjustm Loan         505.06      0.00                 0.00       0.00    200.00    -304.69       0.00
P066674        2001 GEF MX-Indigenous&Community Biodiversity           0.00      0.00                 7.50       0.00      6.74       1.84       0.00
P057530        2000 RURAL DEV.MARG.ARII (APL)                         55.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     42.73       4.56       0.00
P060718        2000 ALTERNATIVE ENERGY                                 0.00      0.00                 8.90       0.00      7.08       6.41       0.00
P066938        2000 MX GENDER (LIL)                                    3.07      0.00                 0.00       0.00      3.07       1.24       0.00
P007610        1999 FOVI RESTRUCTURING                               505.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00    312.00     305.34       0.00
P048505        1999 AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                            444.45       0.00                 0.00       0.00    155,56      45.88     -36.43
P055061        1998 MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TA                       25.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      1.31       1.31       0.00
P007720        1998 MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - SAL                   700.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    150.00     150.00       0.00
P007711        1998 MX RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA (APL)                     47.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     30.16      21.83       0.00
P044531        1998 KNOWLEDGE & INNOV.                               300.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    195.37      61.21       0.00
P049895        1998 MX: HIGHER ED. FINANCING                         180.20      0.00                 0.00       0.00    144.48      68.31       0.00
P007700        1997 COMMUNITY FORESTRY                                15.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      6.07       4.86       0.00
P007689        1996 MX: BASIC HEALTH II                              310.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     30.62      30.62      30.62
P007713        1996 WATER RESOURCES MANA                             186.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00    120.35      99.28      39.23
P034490        1995 MX: TECHNICAL EDUC/TRAINING                      265.00      0.00                 0.00      69.69     51.26     120.9s      90.92
P007701        1994 ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI                             200.00      0.00                 0.00      30.00     11.93      41.93      11.93
P007710        1994 N. BORDER I ENVIRONM                             368.00      0.00                 0.00     313.36     23.62     336.99      61.13
P007648        1993 MX MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                          200.00      0.00                 0.00      63.00     56.03     119.03      96.03
Total:     5791.89       0.00              31.24      476.05     3030.81    1203.84    293.42
- 93 -



MEXICO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Commifted                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                     Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               CIMA Puebla                  7.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               CTAPV                        3.16   0.00    1.90    0.00    3.16    0.00    1.90    0.00
0                  Chiapas-Propalma             0.00    0.82   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.82    0.00    0.00
1997               Comercializadora             2.63   0.00    1.88    5.00    2.63    0.00    1.88    5.00
2001               Compartamos                  1.00    0.66   0.00    0.00    1.00    0.66    0.00    0.00
1999               Corsa                       12.07   3.00    0.00    0.00   12.07    3.00    0.00    0.00
2001               Ecomex                       5.00    0.00    1.50   0.00    3.00    0.00    1.50    0.00
2000               Educacion                    6.50    0.00   0.00    0.00    4.90    0.00.   0.00    0.00
1997               Fondo Chiapas                0.00   4.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00
1998               Forja Monterrey             12.07   3.00    0.00   12.07   12.07    3.00    0.00   12.07
1991/96            GIBSA                       18.93   0.00    10.00  63.67   18.93    0.00   10.00   63.67
1993               GIDESA                       3.75   0.00    0.00    0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/00            GIRSA                       45.00   0.00    0.00   60.00   45.00    0.00    0.00   60.00
1993               GOTM                         0.49   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.49    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/98            Gen. Hipotecaria             0.00   1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00
0                  Grupo BBVA                   0.00    2.67   0.00    0.00    0.00    2.67    0.00    0.00
1998               Grupo Calidra               10.67   6.00    0.00    8.33   10.67    6.00    0.00    8.33
Grupo FEMSA                  0.00    8.09    0.00    0.00    0.00   8.09     0.00    0.00
1989               Grupo Minsa                 12.00   10.00   0.00   18.00   12.00  .10.00    0.00   18.00
1997               Grupo Posadas               25.00   0.00    10.00   0.00   25.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
1992/93/95/96/99   Grupo Sanfandila             8.09   0.00    0.00    3.61    6.76    0.00    0.00    2.95
1998               Heller Financial             0.00   0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00
1994/96/98/00      Hospital ABC                30.00   0.00    0.00   14.00    1.76    0.00    0.00    1.24
2000              ITR                          14.00    0.00   0.00    4.00    14.00   0.00    0.00    4.00
2000              Innopack                      0.00   15.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
2000              Interceramic                  5.00    0.00   4.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    4.00    0.00
1994              InverCap                      0.00   0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.06    0.00    0.00
2000/01            Meridalll                   29.59    0.00   0.00   72.15   29.59    0.00     0.00  72.15
1998               Mexplus Puertos              0.00   1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
1995/99           NEMAK                         0.00   0.00     1.51   0.00    0.00    0.00    1.51    0.00
1996/99/00/01      Pan American                 0.00   9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Punta Langosta               1.69    1.00    0.00   2.85     1.69   1.00     0.00   2.85
1998               Rio Bravo                   50.00   0.00    0.00   59.50   50.00    0.00    0.00   59.50
2000               Saltillo S.A.               35.00    0.00    0.00  43.00   35.00    0.00     0.00  43.00
2000               Servicios                   10.50    1.90    0.00   10.00   10.50   1.90     0.00   10.00
2000               Su Casita                    0.00   10.62    0.00   0.00    0.00   10.62     0.00   0.00
2001               Sudamerica                   0.00   15.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   15.00     0.00   0.00
1999              TMA                           2.53   0.00    2.10    8.76    2.53    0.00    2.10    8.76
1997              Toluca Toll Road              5.29   0.00    0.00    0.00    5.29    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992              Vitro                         0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/92           ZN Mxc Eqty Fund              0.00  25.30    0.00    0.00    0.00   14.15    0.00    0.00
1998              Apasco                       10.80   0.00    0.00   43.20   10.80    0.00    0.00   43.20
1988/91/92/93/95  Ayvi                          9.29   0.00    0.00    0.00    9.29    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              BANAMEX                      75.71   0.00    0.00    8.24   75.71    0.00    0.00    8.24
1990/92/96
Total Portfolio:      544.69  126.79   32.89  436.38  508.02  111.16   32.89  422.96
- 94 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
1999               BANAMEX LRF II                  50.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1999               Baring BMPEF FMC                 0.00     0.00      0.06      0.00
2001               BBVA-Bancomer CL               100.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1998               Cima Hermosillo                  7.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               Ecomex                           3.50     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Educacion                        3.20     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               GFNorte-CL                      50.00     0.00      0.00    100.00
2001               Greenmanor                       7.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Innopack                        15.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               La Colorada                      4.30     6.00      0.00     18.30
2001               PanAme-La Colora                 0.00     0.00      1.20      0.00
2001               Su Casita                        0.00     2.40      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      240.00      8.40     1.26    118.30
- 95-



Annoy, 10, CunuC alt a wUance
MEXICO: 1sazc EducaRun 7-                     -       I Phase 11
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle-
Melico   & Carib.   Income      Development diamond*
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       98.0      516       647                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   5,070     3,680     4,620
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     497.0     1,895     2,986
Average annual growth. 1994-00
Population (%)                                         1.5       1.6       1.3
Labor force (%)                                        2.5       2.3       2.0     GNI                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)               74        75        76
Life expectancv at birth (years)                       72        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               29        30        28
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              8          9         ..         Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   86         85       87
Illiteracv (% of population age 15+)                    9         12       10
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-aqe population)  114        113      107    Mexico
Male                                                116         ..      106              Upper-middle-Income group
Female                                              113                 105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratiosa
GDP (US$ billions)                          223.5    262.7     479.4     574.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP                27.2     23.1      23.5      23.3                     Trad
Exports of noods and services/GDP            10.7     18.6      30.9      31.4                         e
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                   24.9     22.0      21.9      21.5
Gross national savings/GDP                   22.4     20.3      20.5      20.1
Current account balance/GDP                  -4.7     -2.8      -3.0      -3.1     DomesticI
Interest pavments/GDP                         2.0      2.2       2.1       2.0     sav  sInvestment
Total debt/GDP                               25.7     39.8      35.0      26.9         g              a
Total debt service/exPorts                  45.4      20.9      25.1      32.7
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..       ..      33.9      26.1
Present value of debtexports                   ..       ..     102.6      77.8
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(averaCe annual arowth)
GDP                                  1.1     3.1       3.8       6.9       4.3         -   Mexico
GDP oer capita                      -1.0      1.4      2.3       5.4       2.3          . .......... _ Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        7.0     14.6     12.4      16.0       8.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         40
Agriculture                                   9.0      7.8       4.7       4.4
Industry                                    33.6      28.4      28.8      28.4     20
Manufacturing                              22.3     20.8      21.1      20.7                   _
Services                                     57.4     63.7      66.5      67.3    -20 .         96    97   sa    g9    00
Private consumption                          65.1     69.6      67.1      67.5    .40
General government consumption               10.0      8.4      10.9      11.0               -   GDI       -GDP
Imports of goods and services                13.0     19.7      32.4      33.2
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   0.8      1.8       2.0       2.1     45
Industrv                                      1.1      3.8       4.2       6.6    30
Manufacturing                               1.5      4.4       4.2       7.1     15 
Services                                      1.4      2.9       3.7       7.4    o1l
Private consumption                           1.4      2.4       4.3       9.5                  96    37    OS    99   00
General government consumPtion               2.4       1.8       3.9       3.5    -30
Gross domestic investment                    -3.3      4.6       4.1       8.8               -   Exports  -C    Imports
Imports of aoods and services                 1.0     12.3      13.8      21.4
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group averaqe. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 96 -



Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                 4
(% change)                                                                      40
Consumer prices                              ..     26.7      16.6      9.5    30
Implicit GDP deflator                      33.4     28.1      14.9     10.9    20
Govemment finance                                                               10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             o
Current revenue                            27.4     25.3      20.9     21.8            95    96    97     98    99   0
Current budget balance                      4.1      0.9       1.5      2.0             -   GDP deflator   eCP
Overall surplus/deficit                    -3.6     -2.6      -1.1     -1. 1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                       16)284  40,711   136,391  166,455      .000
Oil                                     10,441   10,104     9,928   16,383
A.riculture                              1,528    2,162     3,926    4,217    150.000
Manufactures                             3,802  27,828    122,085  145,334
Total imports (cifl                       19,342  41,593   141,975  174,458     l00.00C
Consumer goods                           2,448    5,099    12,175   16,691      . .    *  v                      I
Intermediate goods                      11,720  29,705    109,270  133,637
Capital goods                            5,174    6,790    20,530   24,130        o
Export price index (1995=100)               134       99        98      106            94   95  9o   97   98   99   00
Import price index (1995=100)                67       90        99      102                IJExports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   201      110        99      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services            22,600   48,732   148,083  180,167      - _  .
Imports of goods and services            27,430   51,535   155,465  190,494    w        L     L     r    s    9 ro
Resource balance                          -4,830  -2,803     -7,382  -10,326    2.
Net income                                -6,438  -8,626   -13,306   -14,747
Net current transfers                       833    3,978     6,313    6,994     4 H
Current account balance                  -10,434  -7,451    -14,375  -18,079
Financing items (net)                     11,453  10,999    14,969   20,901
Changes in net reserves                   -1,019  -3,548      -594    -2,822    1-8
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)    3,052    9,909    31,829   33,595
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)         2.OOE-2     2.8       9.6      9.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      57,378  104,442  167,626  154,687
IBRD                                    2,063   11,030    11,027   11,444                        A: 11,444
IDA                                         0        0        0         0             G: 22,744         D: 4,863
Total debt service                        10,958  11,311    39,760   63,038                  ,E 4,494
IARD                                      255    1,552     2,155    2,220
iDA                             ~~       ~~        ~~       ~~~~~~~~~0  0  0  0 
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            14       54
Official creditors                        795    4,168     -1,708    -525
Private creditors                        -524     -582    13,181    -5,059
Foreign direct investment               2,156    2,549    11,915   13,286
Portfolio equity                            0      563     3,901      478                       F: 111,142
World Bank program
Commitments                               625    2,562     1,671     1,130    A- IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             422    3,326       844    1,647     s - IDA   D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       89      801     1,323    1,330     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                 333    2,525      -479      318
Interest payments                         166      751       832      890
Net transfers                             167    1,774    -1,311     -573
Development Economics                                                                                          9/10/2001
- 97-



Additional
Annex 11
Indigenous Peoples Development Assessment
MEXICO: Basic Education Development Phase II
A. Impact Evaluation
Summary. This annex presents the Plan for Indigenous Peoples Education Development for the Phase II
of PAREIB and assesses the success of indigenous education in the 1996-2000 period and the impact of
CONAFE's education compensatory program. The assessment first overviews the project plan; second, it
sketches the situation of indigenous peoples in Mexico; third, it discusses stakeholder consultations carried
out during the preparation of the PAREIB Program, and fourth, it presents the impact of the program on
indigenous student test evaluations. Consultations with stakeholders find that they held positive opinions of
CONAFE, particularly its value for community participation. Evaluation finds that indigenous students
have benefited from the CONAFE compensatory Program including the PAREIB Phase I, and that the
project has no adverse effect on indigenous people. Generally, this assessment finds that an effective
program is already functioning, and that the successful performance of the program in the past bodes well
for further improvements in the education of indigenous students in the future.
Plan Overview. CONAFE's compensatory education program targets schools in poor and rural
communities, including all indigenous primary schools. Thus, although PAREIB has no special component
for indigenous education, it represents an important tool to improve indigenous education countrywide. To
best target these communities, project strategy is based on informed participation of indigenous peoples.
During the preparation of PAREIB, specialized staff identified local preferences early on through direct
consultation and analyzed issues affecting the education of indigenous peoples through social impact
assessment. Additionally, the Borrower has prepared an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan that is
consistent with Bank policy, and is reproduced in Section B of this Annex. The plan is culturally
appropriate and responsive to indigenous needs, emphasizing bilingual education, appropriate teacher
training, supply of educational materials, parents participation and infrastructure improvements. In prior
projects, CONAFE has offered teaching materials in indigenous languages, in addition to recognizing both
indigenous and mestizo cultural heritage in didactic content. These activities are now an integral part of the
national program of the General Directorate of Indigenous Education (DGEI), which oversees all
indigenous education in Mexico. CONAFE's strong institutional capacity, based on 30 years of
compensatory education experience, ensures its ability to fulfill this plan. Furthermore, the plan ensures
effective mechanisms for local participation and evaluation. The evaluation of the program's impact on
basic indigenous education, presented herein, uses a sample of indigenous students for the period
1996-2000, provided by the General Directorate of Evaluation (DGE) at SEP. As of September 2001 and
throughout PAREIB Phase II, CONAFE will begin collecting annual data on every indigenous student to
allow continued monitoring and evaluation of student performance.
Indigenous beneficiaries. Phase II of PAREIB benefits just over 1 million indigenous primary school
students. Indigenous children represent 20% of total PAREIB beneficiaries (6.2 million), or more than
twice the proportion of indigenous people in the national population:
- 98 -



Table 1: Number of PAREIB Beneficiaries who are Indigenous
Level                Beneficiaries         Type of Intervention
Initial              73,899                Ten month training to parents of 0-4-year-old
children
Preschool            255,271              Parent associations receive training to
participate in the education of their children;
educational materials are provided to students
and schools
Primary              793,606              Teacher training and technical assistance at
classroom level; educational materials, school
infrastructure improvements, universal
achievement testing in every grade, school
equipment, training to parents associations.
Subtotal             1,048,45 5_                       _      _      _     _
Lower-Secondary      274,926               Infrastructure improvements and school
(telesecundaria)     some are indigenous   equipment in rural telesecundaria schools
Legal Framework   The 1992 Constitution recognizes that Mexico has a multicultural population of
indigenous origins. It affirms as a duty of the law to promote the "development of [indigenous] language,
culture, customs, resources, and social organization, and to generally guarantee to indigenous peoples full
access to the states' jurisdiction." Several states of Mexico have legally recognized the obligation to offer
bilingual-multicultural education to indigenous students. More broadly, the World Bank has recognized the
importance of including indigenous peoples in social development (OD 4.20, September 1991). The lUN
has drafted a declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples, which emphasizes access to high-quality
education. The International Labor Organization has also adopted a convention that recognizes the social
rights of indigenous people, including education (No. 169, June 1989).
99 -



Indigenous Population. Two definitions can
identify a person who is "indigenous" - either a  Figure 1
speaker of an indigenous language, or a person        Indigneous Population Distribution
whose household head speaks an indigenous                  among Mexican States
language. Whereas the first definition addresses                         Oaxaca
the bilingual aspect of indigenous education, the                         19%
second definition addresses the intercultural
aspect of indigenous education. Ten percent of         er
Mexico's population lives in a household where      40o
the head speaks an indigenous language, and 7.3                                    s
million indigenous language speakers fall into                                 Ch3apas
one of 62 indigenous linguistic groups (INI
1999). The states of Oaxaca, Chiapas, Veracruz,
Puebla, and Yucatan account for over 60 percent                              eracruz
of indigenous language speakers (Figure 1).                                 Vec
Numerically, the most important groups are the           Yucatan    Puebla
Nahuatl, Maya, Mixteco, Zapoteco, Otomi, and               9%         9%
Tzotzil. Many indigenous communities are rural  Source: INEGI, Census 2000.
and poor - over 80% of indigenous people live
in a locality of less than 500 people, and highly indigenous settlements have an illiteracy rate of
47%, nearly four times the national average of 12.4% (NI 1997, 2001).
Spanish Knowledge. About 80
percent of indigenous people          Fie 2
identify themselves as Spanish
speakers. They learn much of
this Spanish in schools-among             Indigenous
indigenous children aged 5-9,            Indion                 33.7%
60  percent  speak  Spanish;
among indigenous children age          5-14 years old          325%
10-14,  85   percent   speak
Spanish, and among indigenous           Men over 15 j       25 3%
children aged 15-19, over 90               years
percent speak Spanish. In 2000,         Women over                 4 1.7%
about 360,000 children aged 5-            15years
14 were monolingual in their           Over 65 years                        167.85
indigenous language (INEGI
2000). Spanish knowledge also              Mexican
displays a marked   disparity             Population   12.4%
between sexes and states (Table                  0%     20%     40%     60%    80%
2). Despite this progress, nearly                          Percent Illiterate
a third of indigenous school-age
children remain illiterate (Figure    Source: INI 2001
2).
- 100 -



Table 2: Percent of indigenous people that speak Spanish, selected states
Men   Women     Age 5-9   Age 10-14   Age 15-19
Chiapas        71 %    51 %     37 %       69 %        76 %
Edo. Mexico    98 %    94 %     88%       99 %        99 %
Oaxaca         84 %    75 %     61%        88 %        92 %
Puebla         89 %    80%      71%        91%         94 %
Quintana Roo   94 %    89 %     73 %       93 %        97 %
Veracruz       90 %    81 %     72 %       91%         94 %
Nationally     86 %    77 %     60 %       85 %        90 %
Source: INEGI 2000
Bilingual Education. Rural education in Spanish began in 1920, and bilingual education began in the
1970s. With the creation of the General Directorate of Indigenous Education, bicultural education began in
the 1980s, in which indigenous students learned from both their own and meztizo history and culture.
Intercultural instruction began in the 1990s, in which non-indigenous students learn their own and also
indigenous culture. Instruction today occurs in the indigenous language for the first two years of primary
school. Teachers introduce Spanish beginning in the third grade, and by sixth grade instruction is primarily
in Spanish. Bilingual education has created a demand for bilingual indigenous teachers, many of whom
have completed only ninth grade and lack teaching certification (Schmelkes, 2001).
The Bilingual System. The diversity of indigenous languages necessitates locally-based solutions. For the
fifteen languages that have fewer than 100 children speakers, bilingual teachers must come from the
community that speaks the language (INEGI 2000). Procuring textbooks and teaching materials for such
languages is an additional challenge. In 1995, 40,000 bilingual instructors taught 930,000 indigenous
children (iNI 1997). In 1998, the educational system offered textbooks in 33 languages and 52 dialects
(Quintanilla 2001). Nonetheless, 31% of officially bilingual schools are in reality monolingual in Spanish
(INI 1997).
Education Structure. Primary level education in Mexico includes three different structures: general
education, indigenous education, and community education. At the secondary level, five modalities educate
indigenous students: general, technical, distance (telesecundaria), worker education (para trabajadores),
and community. Either a state or the federal government may provide education.
- 101 -



Education Access. Almost 30% of    Figure 3
children in highly indigenous
localities do not attend school, and        Indigenous School Attendence by Grade
only 20% of bilingual schools have
over five teachers.   Indigenous         160 L
children are less likely than non-
indigenous children to have access
to  good   educational  services;    0
children of temporary migrants are               .        .                     U Repeat
less likely than other children to   Z    80                              . 'New
have access to any formal education
at all (World Bank 1999). At the           40
national level, 60%  of students ..
complete    primary   education,     z.                        -
Z     0
compared with 30%   in bilingual            1st   2nd   3rd   4th    5th   6th
schools  (Figure  3).   Of   10
indigenous  children  that  enter                         Grade
school, only two complete fourth
grade (INI 1997).                  Source: INI, Estado del desarrollo, 2000.
' "Repeat" are enrolled in a grade after having already been enrolled in it at
least once; "new" students are completing a grade for the first time.
Consultation Findings. 4In the preparation of PAREIB Phase 1, Bank and government staff interviewed
about 500 stakeholders in Oaxaca and Chiapas, including students, teachers, parents, government
ministers, education researchers, and representatives of local NGOs. Interviews found that the high
number of students who leave school are hampered in their learning process. Students leave school because
of (a) economic reasons, such as the cost of transportation and uniforms or necessity of work, (b) family
migration, (c) parents with little education who place little value on the education of their children, (d)
health problems, and (e) teachers monolingual in Spanish who are unable to communicate with indigenous
children. Parents who were monolingual in an indigenous language felt that indigenous education should be
bilingual, but considered learning Spanish to be essential for their children. Many also felt that education
was equally important for male and female students, and that existing gender inequality in education
attainment should not obstruct efforts to further help female students. Parents often offered their time to
support local schools. Respondents generally held positive opinions of CONAFE, in part because of its
emphasis on community participation.
Student Performance. SEP and CONAFE have kindly provided databases of indigenous student testing
from the Evaluation of Public Education (EVEP) for 1996-2000 and CONAFE indigenous school targeting
for the same period. SEP data is a sample of 5.4% of indigenous sixth graders, which represents 0.56% of
all indigenous primary students. Since 1996, the learning of indigenous students in CONAFE schools has
been improving slowly.' Nonetheless, scores for indigenous students in every year have been significantly
below scores for other students, and this gap is slow to close. Scores of indigenous students on EVEP have
remained relatively constant in Spanish. Math scores were constant through 1999 and then jumped by
three points in the year 2000 (Table 3). The slight improvement that has occurred among indigenous
students has taken place among both low and high achievers on national tests (Figure 4). Furthermore,
indigenous student scores have improved by .88% or .43 points per year, whereas national scores have
improved by only .16% or .08 points annually. Although both growth rates are slow, indigenous students
- 102-



are gradually catching up to their peers (SEP and CONAFE).
Table 3: Indigenous v. national test scores
Spanish                Math
Indigenous  National Indigenous   National
1996     50.56       53.7 I    47.43       50.7
1997     51.88       54.9      46.30       48.8
1998     51.60       54.1      45.38       50.2
1999     49.71       54.0      47.64       50.9
2000     50.55                 50.86         -
a/ Scores from the Evaluation of Public Education
(EVEP) of the Secretary of Education (SEP).
b/ Tests were administered in sixth grade and
addressed material learned in fifth grade.
Fieure 4 A
Indigenous test scores, by quartile
50
451
40 + 
1996      1997       1998      1999      2000
- + 25th       - 50th    - 75th
a/ Scores are the average of Spanish and mathematics scores on
the Secretary of Public Education (SEP) Evaluation of Public
Education (EVEP).
School Performance. The lag among indigenous students does not appear in all learning institutions. In
every year of evaluation, several schools exhibited markedly higher scores than the national average (Table
4). Although the existence of outlier achieving schools is typical among education statistics, the fact that
such indigenous schools exist indicates that success in indigenous education is achievable. The approaches
of these schools to bilingual education and other challenges of indigenous education might serve as models
for other institutions.
- 103 -



Table 1: Highly successful indigenous schools that
receive CONAFE support
School ID       Score        State
1996      07DPB2522J         64.4   Chiapas
3IDPBOO21B        64.1   Yucatan
27DPB0086Z        62.2    Tabasco
1997      16DPBO105R         72.9   Michoacan
3IDPBOO33G         65.7   Yucatan
30DPB1025F        65.2   Veracruz
1998       16DPBO107P        87.4   Michoacan
24DPB0083E        82.8    San Luis Potosi
21DA10031T        67.1   Puebla
1999      23DPBOO12L         67.5   Quintana Roo
31DPBO203K        66.9    Yucatan
31DPB0115Q         65.4   Yucatan
2000      21DPBOO84G         81.2   Puebla
24DPB0235T        71.8    San Luis Potosi
04DPBOO13W         68.2   Campeche
1/ Among primary schools with five or more indigenous students.
2/ Score is average of Spanish and mathematics scores on the
Secretary of Public Education (SEP) Evaluation of Public
Education (EVEP).
State performance. Although a single test is an imperfect measure of learning and achievement, SEP's
exams in Spanish and mathematics do allow rough comparison between states. A few states have excelled
in improving indigenous student scores. Based on existing data from 1996 to 2000, indigenous CONAFE
students in Guerrero, Baja California, Sinaloa, and Morelos all exhibited annual improvements of 3% or
more (Table 5). As a general statistical matter, cases with the worst performance tend to show the highest
percentage improvement. But states with the best improvement did not have the worst performance during
this period, suggesting that the improvement is substantive. Excluding Baja California in 1999 and Sonora
in 1998, in no year did indigenous students in a single state outperform their non-indigenous peers.
Although the performance of indigenous students in Chiapas has actually worsened and that of students in
Yucatan, Michoacan, Durango, and Nayarit has stagnated, indigenous students in all seventeen other states
have significantly improved in the last four years. At the beginning of the program, CONAFE schools did
have slightly lower achievement than other schools. As time has progressed, however, CONAFE schools
have improved more quickly, and in 1998, 1999, and 2000 - during the implementation of PAREIB Phase I
-- their scores exceeded the scores of non-CONAFE schools (Figure 5).
- 104 -



Figure 5
Scores of Conanga v. nonCnrfe zchoola
52.00 -
0
E 50.00
-~-OConafe
48.00 -~                                      NonConafe
0
a.
E 46.00-
0
44.00
1996    1997    1998     1999    2000
B. Strategy for Reaching Indigenous lPeoples ([llPIDf)
I.     Scope
Ten percent of Mexico's population lives in a household where the head speaks an indigenous language,
and 7.3 million indigenous language speakers fall into one of 62 indigenous linguistic groups. Indigenous
groups concentrate in five states, namely, Oaxaca (19%), Chiapas (13%), Veracuz (10%), Puebla (9%),
and Yucatan (9%) which, together, account for over 60 percent of indigenous language speakers (INEGI,
Census 2000). Numerically, the most important groups are the Nahuatl, Maya, Mixteco, Zapoteco, Otomi,
and Tzotzil. All indigenous groups in Mexico will benefit from the project.
The project consists of a compensatory education program supporting initial education, preschool, primary
and lower secondary schools located in the poorest rural and excluded urban areas, in 31 states, or the
entire country except the Federal District. A total of 6.2 million children benefit from the project, of which
1.1 million are indigenous children, distributed as follows:
* 73,899 families of indigenous children age 0-4 year or approximately 88,679 children
* 255,271 indigenous preschool children in 7,665 preschools
* 793,606 indigenous primary school children in 9,142 schools
At the lower-secondary level, indigenous children attending rural telesecundaria schools also benefit from
the project. Because SEP does not classify lower-secondary schools as indigenous and non-indigenous, it is
not possible to determine the exact number of indigenous students attending telesecundaria.
Excluding lower-secondary school children, indigenous children benefiting from the project represent 19
percent of all beneficiary students, or almost two time the percentage of indigenous peoples in the Mexican
population.
- 105-



II.    Legal Framework
The 1992 Constitution recognizes that Mexico population is multicultural in composition due to its
indigenous origins. It affirms as a duty of the law to promote the "development of [indigenous] languages,
culture, customs, resources, and social organization, and to generally guarantee to indigenous peoples full
access to the states' jurisdiction." Several states of Mexico have legally recognized the obligation to offer
bilingual-multicultural education to indigenous students. More broadly, the World Bank has recognized the
importance of including indigenous peoples in social development (OD 4.20, September 1991). The UN
has drafted a declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples, which emphasizes access to high-quality
education. The International Labor Organization has also adopted a convention that recognizes the social
rights of indigenous peoples, including education (No. 169, June 1989).
III.   Baseline Data
Considering this is the second phase of an APL, a baseline study was conducted and its key findings were
discussed in Annex 11 "Indigenous Peoples Development Assessment" of the Project Evaluation Document
(PAD). Primary education in Mexico includes three administrative structures:  general education,
indigenous education, and community education.  The criteria employed by SEP to make this
classification considers all primary schools servicing municipalities with 80% or more indigenous
population as indigenous primary school. At the lower-secondary level, five modalities educate indigenous
students: general, technical distance (telesecundaria), worker education, and community, but a formal
distinction between indigenous and non indigenous schools does not exits.
IV.    Consultations
In the preparation of PAREIB, Phase I, Bank and government staff interviewed about 500 stakeholders in
Oaxaca and Chiapas, including students, teachers, parents, government, ministers, members of Congress,
education researchers, and representatives of local NGOs. In Oaxaca, these consultations covered, inter
alia, education authorities and members of the education committees of Mixteca, Mixes, and Zapoteca
communities, and community-based organizations of the following groups: (i) Mixes; (ii) Mixtecos; (iii)
Zapotecos; (iv) Chocholtecos; and (v) Chinantecos. In Chiapas, consultations were made with supervisors
of the Escuelas Bilingues Federales Tzeltales y Tzotiles, among other stakeholders.
During the preparation of PAREIB-Phase II, the Indigenous Peoples Profiles (see, World Bank (1999).
"Indigenous Peoples Profile." Green Cover Report No 18899-ME, February 10; World Bank (2001).
"Indigenous Peoples, Ethnic Identity and Poverty in Mexico Urban Profile: An Exploratory Study." Green
Cover Report No. 22054-ME, June 12) were a main source of information on indigenous peoples education
needs and priorities. Data from these studies, were complemented by regular consultations between
CONAFE, education authorities responsible for indigenous education, and parents of indigenous students
attending primary schools.
Results of the consultative processes found that basic education is a high priority for indigenous peoples. It
is not because education is not considered important that indigenous children are not in schools, but rather
because of conditions related to their poverty or the inadequacy of the school system, which the current
project addresses. A high number of indigenous students who leave school are hampered in their learning
process. Students leave school because of (a) economic reasons, such as the cost of transportation and
uniforms or necessity of work, (b) family migration, (c) parents with little education who place little value
- 106 -



on the education of their children, (d) health problems, and (e) teachers monolingual in Spanish who are
unable to communicate with indigenous children. Parents who were monolingual in an indigenous language
felt that education is equally important for male and female students, and that existing gender inequality in
education attainment should not obstruct efforts to further help female students. Parents often offer their
time to support local schools, through Parent School Associations and generally held positive opinions of
the compensatory education programs of CONAFE, particularly for its emphasis on community
participation.
Throughout the implementation of PAREIB Phase I, CONAFE carried out continuous consultations with
indigenous peoples with regard to their education needs primarily through:  (a) Parents Schools
Associations in indigenous primary schools; and (b) Education Authorities at state and federal levels,
responsible for the indigenous schools. The results of these consultations have been incorporated in the
design of PAREIB Phase II.
V.     Needs Assessment
Analyses carried out in preparation of PAREIB Phase II, indicate that learning achievements of indigenous
primary schools still fall short of the national average. Nevertheless, since 1996, indigenous students in
schools covered by CONAFE compensatory programs registered marked improvements in their learning
achievements. As indicated in Annex 11 of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for PAREIB-Phase II,
during the 1996-2000 period, test scores of indigenous students in Spanish have remained relatively
constant, at about 51.0 compared to the national average of 54.1. In mathematics, the scores of indigenous
primary students improved from 47.4 in 1996 to 50.9 in 2000, actually reaching the national average. At
the beginning of the program, CONAFE schools did have slightly lower achievement than other schools.
As time has progressed, however, indigenous schools supported by the project, have improved more
quickly, and in 1998, 1999 and 2000 - their scores exceeded the scores of rural primary schools not
supported by CONAFE. These results indicate that efforts need to continue in order to guarantee to
indigenous students quality basic education.
It is important to note that indigenous students do not show a lag in learning achievements compared to the
national average in all indigenous schools. In every year of the evaluation, several indigenous schools
exhibit markedly higher scores than the national average. The fact that these successful indigenous schools
exist indicates that success in indigenous education is achievable. The approaches of these successful
schools to bilingual education might serve as models for other schools. It is also worth noting that several
states have excelled in improving indigenous student scores. Based on existing data from 1996 to 2000,
indigenous students in Guerrero, Baja California, Sinaloa, and Morelos exhibited annual improvements of
3% or more.
Some of the specific needs of indigenous primary students were identified in prior projects and addressed in
the context of PARE (1991-1997) and PAREB (1994-2001) projects. These special needs were:
*      trained bilingual teachers;
*      bilingual textbooks;
*      school libraries containing books of cultural and regional relevance to indigenous groups;
*      special attention to indigenous migrant students;
*      special attention to indigenous students attending general schools; and,
*      a model of lower secondary education appropriate to the indigenous and isolated rural
communities.
- 107 -



Several initiatives addressing those needs through CONAFE compensatory programs, are now streamlined
as part of the national basic education policy. For example:
*   Textbooks in 33 indigenous languages and 52 dialects, covering the first three grades of primary
school, are now systematically provided, free of charge, by SEP through the Directorate General for
Indigenous Education (DGIE),
*   Teachers are trained to develop teaching materials appropriate to particular local dialects;
*   Regionally specific books are supplied by SEP to the school libraries free of charge,
*   In service training for primary teachers in bilingual education continue to be provided by SEP and by
CONAFE, since it was leamed that due to the rotation of teacher is isolated rural areas, such trained
has to be constantly reviewed;
*   Special attention to migrant children, which was piloted under PAREIB Phase I, is now part of SEP
policy for basic education and an integral part of CONAFE's community education program;
*   Special attention to indigenous students attending general primary schools, piloted under PAREIB
Phase I, gave rise to a generalized multicultural approach to basic education, which is formalized in the
National Education Program as one of the important policy guidelines for basic education; and,
*   The innovative postprimaria lower-secondary program, adjusted to rural communities, has been
incorporated as part of the regular CONAFE community education program, and the evaluations of
this program by indigenous parents, education promoters and external scholar has been consistently
positive.
VI.    Strategy for Local Participation
One important reason why CONAFE has been so successful in meeting the education needs of indigenous
peoples, is its systematic participatory operational methodology. One main tool used by CONAFE to
ensure continuous and meaning participation of stakeholders, is its policy of creating and supporting
School Parents Associations in all schools. Presently, all indigenous primary schools contemplates have an
active School Parents Associations. Parents Associations manage school funds to carryout routine school
maintenance and are entrusted with purchasing complementary school materials. Often School Parents
Associations execute school infrastructure improvements under contract with CONAFE.  Parents
Associations participate in the School Council, where they contribute to the planning and administration of
the school. Parents are systematically informed of the progress of their children. The information provided
to parents will be based in actual learning achievements tests in PAREIB Phase II. The School Parents
Associations have proven, since 1995, to be an effective instrument to promote active local participation
and their involvement in school management has been expanded over time.
VII.   Specific Project interventions in Indigenous schools and commiunities
In PAREIB Phase 1, project activities in indigenous schools respond to the expressed needs of indigenous
peoples in the basic education sector, as they did in previous program phases and projects.
Initial and preschool indigenous children will benefit from the training of promoters and teachers, from the
- 108-



provision of appropriate didactic materials, and from the creation of School Parents Associations in
preschools.
At the primary level, indigenous students and schools will benefit from the following project interventions:
*   Infrastructure improvements, including additional classrooms, sanitary services and complementary
facilities for school supervision and teacher training;
* Equipment, consisting in school furniture and sports equipment;
*   Didactic materials, including student packages of school utensils, and well as basic didactic materials
for the classroom (bilingual and other textbooks are provided by SEP);
*   In service teacher training, in multigrade pedagogic techniques and bilingual education, multicultural
approach to teaching and learning, as well as national/regional courses. Starting with PAREIB Phase
II, teacher training will be complemented by technical assistance to teachers in the classroom provided
by technical pedagogic assistants;
* Improvement in school management through modernization of supervision and assistance to
supervisors and sector chiefs to facilitate frequent visits to the schools;
*   Performance incentives for primary teachers, provided for those teachers who (a) attend the full school
calendar and keep the specified class hours, as certified by School Parents Associations; (b) prepare
diagnostic reports at the beginning of the school year to serve as basis for the evaluation of students
through the Proyectos Escolares; (c) provide remedial education to students who are lagging behind
their peers, in after school hours during at least three days per week; (d) participate in training
programs; (e) collaborate with parents associations; and (f) develop educational activities with the
community; and,
*   Institutional strengthening and the implementation of the Basic Education Innovation Fund by the
states, which will improve basic education for indigenous and non-indigenous children, indirectly,
through more effective and efficient local education systems.
VIII. Estimated Project budget directly benefiting indigenous students
Although the indigenous students directly benefiting from the project represent approximately 19 percent of
all beneficiary students, the share of indigenous schools in total project cost is estimated at 27% or the
equivalent of US$ 142.6 million. This is so, because experience indicates that indigenous schools generally
require more infrastructure investment than general schools. These resources will be used basically during
school years 2001-2002 and 2002-2003. The project implementation period is 2.5 years.
IX.    Monitoring and impact evaluation arrangements
All primary schools, including indigenous schools, will be intensely monitored during the implementation of
PAREIB Phase II, and a comprehensive evaluation of the program will be carried out at the completion of
Phase III.
- 109-



In Phase II, all students of all primary grades will be tested on an yearly basis, and their scores in Spanish
and Mathematics will be compared with state and national scores. Results will be disaggregated for
indigenous and non-indigenous schools. The results of individual tests will be disseminate in every school,
while the national learning achievement test scores will be published in the SEP WEB Page. In addition,
basic educational indicators such was dropout rates, repetition rates, completion rates, and failure rates will
be systematically collected by SEP every year, and these statistics will be disaggregated by indigenous and
non-indigenous schools. Furthermore, during project implementation, Parents Associations will be asked to
contribute their views as to the progress of the education of their children and will be encouraged to
participate in the School Projects (Proyectos Escolares), designed in each school to address the specific
needs of the schools and their students. A rigorous evaluation of the operation of the Networks for Quality
Education, which will provide technical assistance to teachers in the classroom, will also be a source of
information in the monitoring and evaluation of the project, and of its impact in indigenous schools.
X.     Project Impact on Indigenous Peoples
The preparation of PAREIB and the experience of PAREIB Phase I, suggests that the three phases of the
program will have beneficial impacts on indigenous students, particularly those attending primary schools,
whose completion rates are expected to rise in comparison with national averages, showing increments that
are greater that those observed in non-indigenous primary schools supported by the program. This
anticipated impact will be carefully evaluated at the completion of the program.
The impact of the project on indigenous primary schools, will be measured over a period of eight school
years (1995-1996 through 2002-2003), and results will be compared with the national average for these
years. Measurements include: dropout rates, repetition rates, failure rates, and completion rates; as well as
learning achievements in Spanish and Mathematics. The reason why an 8-year period is selected to
evaluate the impact of the project has to do with the duration of the primary cycle (6 years) and the need to
follow beneficiary students from the first through the sixth grade.
In addition, the territorial educational planning which will be carried out during project irnplementation,
will be an important tool to identify clusters of indigenous peoples as yet without access to basic education,
and to provide the basis to remedy this situation.
Lastly, it should also be noted that the project will not have any negative impact in indigenous peoples
cultures. On the contrary, the project promotes indigenous cultures through educational activities carried
out in the schools, and the multicultural approach to basic education. Likewise, indigenous land tenure will
not be affected, since the project does not include new construction in new sites.
Endnotes:
The World Bank (1998). Annex 5, "Social Assessment Summary - Indigenous Peoples Development
Assessment" in Project Appraisal Document for a Basic Education Development (PAREIB) Project. May 7,
1998. Report No. 17535-ME
A "highly indigenous" settlement has over 70% indigenous language speakers.
The Secretary of Public Education oversees general education; the General Directorate of Indigenous Education
oversees indigenous education, which is a sub-program of general education, and CONAFE oversees community
- 110-



education.
Further discussion of the consultations appears in World Bank Report No 17535-ME Annex 5 p. 47-48, the 1998
Project Appraisal for the original PAREIB loan.
References to "indigenous students" in the following pages include only students in schools with CONAFE
support, with the exception of the explicitly labeled "CONAFE targeting" section.
The school ID number is a unique identifier of primary schools used by CONAFE and SEP.



Additional
Annex 12
Phasing of APL Activities
MEXICO: Basic Education Development Phase II
The APL seeks to help the Government rationalize and integrate its compensatory education program. The
Bank and IDB funded Phase I of the Program, which used a mix of policy objectives and targeting criteria,
which resulted in dividing country according to the different procedures of the two banks, which in turn,
lead to duplication of administrative structures. Phase II will be exclusively financed by the GOM and the
Bank, moving towards the desired rationalization and integration.
An increase in the Government's planned spending on this Program accompanies the change in the
financing plan. During the 1998-2000 period, total program expenditures increased from US$139 million
(85 percent) to US$257 million per year. Different financing structure, and a larger budget, dictated
corresponding changes in the APL phasing and loan amounts. The proposed Phase II and Phase III now
cover two school-years each, and the estimated loan for each Phase is $300 million, although the indicative
loan amount for Phase II has been kept at the original US$210.0 million figure, pending evaluation of
Phase II. Shorter APL phases not only allow the Bank to finance an adequate share of the entire national
program, but also permit more frequent and in-depth evaluation of program implementation.
Past and projected financing for the compensatory education program appears below.
Compensatory Education Program, 1998-2005
250 -
e 200 -                    -_WB PAREIB
X 150 -        _  _                                      Q * _  _   ~   CWB PAREB
641~~~~~~~                                 n  ~~~~IDB  PIARE
D100[I Federal government
50
1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005
I. Changes in APL - Development Objectives and Program Design
The development objective of the APL (PAREIB) have not changed, i.e., the improvement of the quality of
basic education for the poorest and most education backward Mexican children. Given this objective, the
program is considered an important instrument to reduce poverty in Mexico, and to diminish inequality by
raising the bottom end of the education system, thereby ultimately improving the education system as a
whole.
- 112-



With respect to specific interventions programmed in the APL, the original design for APL2 and APL3 has
been slightly modified, to incorporate lessons learned during APL1, as indicated below.
APL Phase II Original Description                    Revised
Implementation Agency: CONAFE            No change
Implementation Period: 2001-2003         2002-2004. The closing date for APL1 was
extended by 6 months to December 2001. The
APL2 implementation period is programmed for
2.5 years
Total Project Cost: US$ 370.0 M (for 14 states US$ 528.1 M  due to expansion of primary
in primary education)                    coverage education from 14 to 31 states
Loan Amount: US$ 300.0 M                 Unchanged
Parallel External Financing from IDB coverin  Financing from IBRD and GOM only. The
17 states                                GOM   decided to integrate all compensatory
programs under PAREIB with financing from
IBRD.
Geographic Coverage: 31 states           National: 31 states
Targeting Criteria:  School and communitie The same targeting criteria will be applied
ranked in the bottom half of the marginality index countrywide (see Annex  13).  The only
modification is that schools located in the 250
poorest micro regions of the country, which
have been defined as priority regions by the
Government, will all be targeted, instead of only
a majority of them.
APL2 program description: continue and expand This program  description has basically not
on activities under APL1, covering additiona changed. But the following adjustments were
targeted schools and communities and expandin  made: instead of expanding the pilot programs
the innovative programs successfully piloted in successfully piloted in APL1, these program
the first phase (rural secondary education were incorporated as part of the regular
migrant children education, children in urban operations of the education sector, as follows:
marginal areas, and inter-cultural schoo (a) the postprimaria program was incorporated in
interventions). APL2 will also pick up where the  CONAFE's community education program;
existing loan (PAREB Ln. 3722-ME) leaves off, (b) the migrant children education program was
continuing support for initial, preschool, and  incorporated in the regular basic education
primary education in addition to the activitie  program carried out by SEPEs;
covered under Phase I. Phase II would als (c) the inter-cultural school interventions were
provide the opportunity to rationalize and  generalized to all general primary schools;
integrate the various compensatory program (d) the program for children 9-14 in marginal
both in terms of organization and financing.  urban areas was not piloted; instead, SEP
decided to study the appropriate interventions
for this population group (more on this subject
under "Triggers").
Second, support for primary schools, which was
originally limited to 17 states, now covers all 31
states.
APL3 Original Description                        Revised
Implementation Agency: CONAFE            Unchanged
- 113-



Implementation Period: 2004-2006          2004-2006
Total Project Cost US$ 260.0 M            US$ 524.3 M
Loan Amount: US$ 210.0 M                  US$ 210.0 M, subject to revision upon
completion of APL2
Parallel Extemal Financing from IDB       Financing from IBRD and GOM only
Geographic Coverage: 31 states for initial 31 states for all levels of initial and basic
preschool and telesecundaria, and for 17 states education.
for primary education.
Targeting Criteria: Same as APL2          Same as revised APL2
Program Description: continue implementation  No change is anticipated at this time in the
of the government's compensatory education  description of the program for APL3.
program, based on (i) a full review of the
targeting mechanism to ensure that program
activities continue reaching the neediest
population, and (ii) an adaptation of executing
mechanisms to reflect the decentralization
experience and increased institutional capacity
of the stated developed under the previous
phases.
II. Triggers
This section presents a comparison of proposed triggers for APL2 and APL3, showing the original triggers
approved in June 1998 by the Board, and the proposed triggers, with comments on why changes are being
proposed.
(a) Triggers Approved by the Board in June 1998 for APL2 and Compliance Status
Triggers for Component 1:
1.     60% of civil works implemented
2.     80% of goods implemented
3.     60% of training plan implemented
4.     80% of targeted schools are implementing Proyectos Escolares
Status: Full Compliance. The targets for all physical indicators have been met or surpassed. In the case
of Proyectos Escolares, the model has been expanded to cover all primary schools. Regarding training,
experience indicated that besides training courses, additional interventions were needed to help teachers
apply in the classroom the skills provided by the training.
Triggers for Component 2:
5.     Evaluation system: Progress report, baseline study, and action plan, including dissemination
strategy
6.     Regional planning: Basic system installed at central level, action plan
Status: Full Compliance. The actions programmed for the evaluation and the regional planning systems
were satisfactorily completed. The action plans for further development of evaluation and planning
- 114-



activities, prepared during APLl, will be carried out during the implementation of APL2.
7.     Progress reports and action plans for pilot programs
Status: Partial Compliance. Three pilot program on: (a) education of migrant children; (b) inter-cultural
program for indigenous children in general schools; and (c) rural secondary education (Postprimaria), were
successfully carried out. The action plans for the expansion of these successful pilots, recommended that
such expansion should be made in the context of the regular education sector program, and not to be
financed by APL2.
The pilot program for children age 9-14 in marginalized urban areas, who are out of school, was not
carried out. The main reasons for the non-implementation of this pilot are: (a) the lack of an appropriate
implementation agency; and (b) the lack of relevant research results to guide the interventions to be tested
in the pilot. The pilot was not properly designed. However, the issue addressed by the pilot continues to be
highly relevant. During APL2, design deficiencies of this pilot shall be compensated by a study of basic
education in marginalized urban areas of Mexico City, under the responsibility of the Under-Secretariat of
Education for the Federal District (SSEDF). In parallel, SEP has created a working group to research the
conditions of urban children age 9-14 who are not in school, aiming at defining the appropriate policies to
address their educational needs.
8.     Institutional Development Fund (FDI): (a) 60% of funds disbursed; (b) Participation by at
least 15 states; (c) Progress report, and (d) action plan for improving/accelerating activities
Status: Partial Compliance. The Institutional Development Fund (FDI) was originally conceived in two
parts. The first part consisted of a "Basic Fund" to be invested by CONAFE in the states, with the
objective of providing technical assistance to the SEPEs for the preparation of Strategic Plans (Planes
Rectores), through which the states would be able to identify and seek support for the educational and
institutional challenges they face in formulating and implementing basic education programs and strategies
for compensatory education. This implementation of this Basic Fund was satisfactory, and a total of 20
states prepared their Maters Plans, i.e. three additional states than the ones directly supported by APL 1.
The second part of the FDI was designed as a competitive fund to support the institutional development
initiatives identified in the Strategic Plans. This competitive fund would be disbursed by CONAFE to the
states, based on the evaluation by CONAFE of the technical assistance proposals presented by each state.
The evaluation criteria to be used in judging the proposals was consolidated in a formula, devised to
indicate the general allocation of funds resources between states. This formula proved to be extremely
complex, as it intended to combine equity and efficiency considerations, in addition to the assessment of the
actual merit of the proposal. The complexity of the formula, combined with a deficient dissemination of the
operational guidelines of the fund among the states, resulted in a series of misunderstandings on the part of
the states. The proposals received were, for the most part, requests for additional funds to carry out routine
administrative functions of the SEPEs. More importantly, because CONAFE is not a normative agency for
the sector, its relative authority to apply the FDI operational guidelines proved insufficient vis-a-vis state
authorities. In sum, the initial attempts to operate the competitive part of the FDI indicated that it was
poorly designed and required extensive revisions in order to be successful. At this point, decision was
made to postpone the implementation of the redesigned competitive fund for APL2.
Revised Basic Education Innovation Fund in APL2. SEByN considers a competitive fund instrument an
effective means to promote education federalism, and diversify basic education interventions according to
the specific needs of each state, based on innovative policy proposals developed by the states. In line with
- 115 -



this objective, APL2 would implement a number of important revisions to the competitive fund, referred to
as Basic Education Innovation Fund:
(i)    The objectives of the fund are clearly stated as covering: (a) improvements in the basic education
teaching process and learning achievements in reading, writing, mathematics, and sciences; (b)
interaction between the school and the families of the students; (c) education interventions for street
children, migrant children, and handicapped children; (d) inter-cultural and bilingual education; (e)
organization and operation of the administrative system for basic education. (No such definition
was available in APL I);
(ii)   An evaluation group was established, comprising the directors of SEP's Under-Secretariat for
Basic and Normal Education (SEByN) and the Director General of CONAFE. This group is
responsible for evaluating the proposals received from the states, for supervising the
implementation of the subprojects, and for evaluating their impact in terms of efficiency gains and
policy development (again, no such committee was formally established to evaluate FDI).
(iii)  The criteria to evaluate the impact of the subprojects funded is clearly stated in the guidelines, and
consist of efficiency measures and policy impact measures (the original FDI did not have impact
evaluation criteria);
(iv)   The number of proposals is no longer left open, but reduced to 3 per state, among which the
evaluation committee will choose the best subprojects. This will allow proper attention to be
devoted to each proposal. Within each state, proposals can be originated by a variety of
institutions, as for example an individual school, an NGO, a research university, or a unit within
the SEPE, as long as it is presented by the state. The important aspect is that the 3 proposals
selected by the state receive the full support of the State Public Education Secretariat (SEPE) prior
to their presentation at the federal level. If there are no acceptable proposals in a given state, the
state will not receive the benefits of the fund in that particular year, and assistance will be provided
for the production of improved proposals;
(v)    The competition is not between states, but between proposals within each state; and,
(vi)   There is a clear division of functions between SEByN and CONAFE, as they cooperate in
operating the fund. SEByN responds for the technical aspects of the fund operations, while
CONAFE is responsible for its financial management. The operational guidelines for the fund, will
be published as part of the Operational Manual for the project, and will be fully disseminated
among the states.
These revisions are expected to ensure clarity of purpose and efficiency in the implementation of the fund
during APL2.
9.     Framework for compensatory programs maintained according to terms of Government letter
Status: Full Compliance. The APL, the new Administration, which took office in December 2000, has
included the APL program in its National Education Program, and has expressed full ownership and
support for the program. Moreover, the government has confirmed its commitment to the strategy and
specific components of the APL, by sending to the Bank a Policy Letter, reproduced as Attachment 1.
- 116-



10.    Assessment of effectiveness and use of targeting mechanisms
Status: Ful Compliance. We are glad to report that the targeting mechanisms designed for APLI proved
effective. However, it became evident that their implementation was less than effective so long as other
criteria were used for targeting primary education in the states not financed by PAREB. The integration of
the compensatory education program under APL2 allows for the standardization of the target mechanisms
countrywide. The fine targeting which allows for the identification of not only those schools located in the
poorest communities but also those schools that present the worse education indicators, has proved valid
and efficient. In micro regions of the country with the highest poverty indicators, coverage of all schools is
recommended, following poverty reduction policy priorities dictated by the federal government.
11.    Beneficiary assessment being carried out
Status: Full Compliance. CONAFE carried out yearly beneficiary assessment, through its dialogue with
the SEPEs and the active participation of parents associations in primary schools. The results of these
periodic assessments, are routinely incorporated in the design of the annual investment program. Especial
care was taken, during the preparation of APL2, to assess the impact of the program on indigenous
students. Annex I 1, shows that indigenous students leaming achievements have significantly improved as
a result of program interventions, and such improvements are taking place at a faster rate than those
observed in non-indigenous schools, although achievement scores among indigenous students still average
below the national scores.
12.    Progress under CONAFE financial management improvement action plan
Status: Full Compliance. An in-depth financial management assessment of CONAFE was carried out
during the preparation of APL2. The results of this assessment show that the project implementation
agency has satisfactory financial management systems and procedures. Nevertheless, to further enhance
CONAFE's financial management capacity, the Bank recommends the upgrading of CONAFE's
management information system in order to support the production of Project Management Reports
(PMRs), on a quarterly basis, starting six month following effectiveness of the APL2 loan.
13.    Financial management capacity in, and action plans completed for, all participating states
with respect to the compensatory programs
Status: Ful Compliance. All participant states have benefited from technical assistance in procurement
and financial management during APL1. As a result, both procurement and financial management
assessment carried out during the preparation of APL2 show satisfactory results. This development
indicates that compensatory education programs can be managed efficiently at state level, which is one of
the key objectives of the Program. It should be noted, that technical assistance in financial management and
procurement has also been extended to the 14 states that were not formally covered by PAREB, ensuring
the readiness of these states to participate in APL2.
14.    Evidence of utilization of improved evaluation system in at least 15 states
Status: Full Compliance. All states participate in the national learning achievement education system for
primary and lower secondary education. Improvements in the participation of the states in these periodic
evaluations have resulted from implementation of APLI, when technical assistance was provided to
improve the administrative structure for evaluation at state level; and training of specialists in various fields
- 117-



necessary for effective evaluation was successfully carried out. A major improvement in the evaluation
system achieved during APL1 was that all test results are now available in the SEP-DGE Web page,
allowing the full disclosure of results and the informed participation of civil society in the basic education
sector policy process. What is missing, and will be taken up in APL2, is the strengthening of the analytical
capacity of the states, to allow them to make the best use of the information provided by the periodic
national learning assessment tests. Dissemination of test results at the school level, along with pedagogical
recommendations on how to improve the quality of education, will be the most important innovation of
APL2 in the area of evaluation of education outcomes.
15.    Evidence of preparation of Strategic Plans by at least 15 states
Status: Full Compliance. As mentioned above, 20 states have completed their Strategic Plans for
institutional development, or 3 additional states than those directly benefiting from APLL. Nevertheless,
the actual impact of these strategic plans is not clear, especially considering the less than satisfactory array
of proposals to implement plan recommendations, observed in the FDI competitive fund. For this reason,
the technical assistance provided to the states in APL2 will focus on specific policy issues related to the
rationalization of the management of basic education, with the specific goal of minimizing duplication of
functions at state levels and reducing wastage of resources.
16.    Evidence of adequate counterpart funds
Status. Full Compliance. The original APL proposed a US$ 790.0 M program, with IBRD financing of
US$ 625.0 M (80%) and parallel financing from IDB in the amount of US$ 393.0 million. The availability
of counterpart funding has not been a problem during implementation of APLI. The revised resource
allocation proposes an overall program of US$ 1,225.0 M over a period of 9 years (June 1998 through
June 2006), with IBRD financing for Phases I and II of US$ 415.0 M. For Phase III, the original IBRD
financing amount of US$ 210.0 M is likely to be increased given the larger scope of the program.
Assurance that the full amount of necessary counterpart funds will be allocated to the federal education
budget has been given and is satisfactory. Although the GOM anticipates budget cuts on the short run, in
response to the current economic recession, in the education sector, the budget for the compensatory basic
education program has been and will be protected. The necessary cuts are being made in other sectors
areas of federal spending.
(b) Triggers Approved by the Board in June 1998 for APL3 and Revised Triggers for APL3
Overall Comment. One of the important lessons learned from APL1 is that APL triggers should include a
very small number of overall indicators, of two types: sector outcome indicators, such as improvement in
completion rates; and policy implementation indicators, such as fostering school autonomy and
decentralization. This observation has led the project team to reduce the number of triggers for APL3
from nine originally proposed, to six, and have these triggers focussed on the core priority operational and
policy issues.
Phase III Triggers
Original:
1.     Dropout in the preschool and primary levels in targeted populations reduced by 0.79% and 0.4%
respectively
2.     Completion rate at the primary and lower secondary levels in targeted populations increased by 3%
and 3.9% respectively.
- 118-



3.     Failure, repetition, and dropout rates at the lower secondary level in targeted populations reduced
by 2.2%, 0.6% and 2.5% respectively.
4.     Framework for compensatory programs maintained according to terms of Government letter in
Annex 2
5.     Assessment of effectiveness and use of targeting mechanisms
6.     Satisfactory progress under state-level financial management improvement action plans
7.     Evidence of preparation of Strategic Plans by at least 25 states
8.     At least 10 states are fully and directly executing compensatory programs, under norms set by
SEP/CONAFE
9.     Evidence of adequate counterpart funds.
Revised:
The original indicators combine important and less important education outcomes; they also do not
disaggregate performance by subgroups; and they do not provide a base line from which to measure the
desired outcomes. Thus, we propose two basic indicators, as follows:
1.     Education Indicators:
Improvement in completion rates at targeted primary school, including:
*   A 23 percent improvement in completion rates of indigenous primary schools, from 64.2
percent in 1995-1996 to 79.0 percent in 2002-2003;
*   A 4 percent improvement in completion rates of non-indigenous primary schools, from 81.6
percent in 1995-1996 to 85.2 percent in 2002-2003;
*   Increase by 15.9 percent in the enrollment rate in telesecundarios, from 562,637 students in
1998-1999 to 652,105 students in 2002-2003.
2.     Policy Indicators:
*   Increased school autonomy, through improved mechanisms for participation of directors,
teachers, and parents associations in the management of the schools. Specifically, an increase
of 20 percent in the number of schools targeted by the program that have operative parents
associations.
*   The policy framework for compensatory programs is maintained.
3.     Technical Indicators;
* Completion of the study that evaluates the implementation of the Network for Education
Quality in Primary Education;
*   Completion of the study on basic education in marginalized schools in the Federal District.
- 119-



Additional
Annex 13
Targeting
MEXICO: Basic Education Development Phase 11
Background. Compensatory education programs use various targeting methodologies to determine proper
beneficiaries. In the past decade, the Mexican Government has refined this methodology. The original
methodology began with geographical targeting to the four poorest states - Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo,
and Oaxaca - then focused on increasingly smaller geographical areas, to ensure inclusion of the neediest
and most remote schools and exclusion of schools not needing benefits. In addition, the Government used
specific criteria to program scope. Beginning in 1990 under the PARE project, all rural schools in the four
targeted states met the targeting criteria and received program support (rural schools are those in localities
with fewer than 2500 residents). The initial education program (PRODEI) used the CONAPO municipal
poverty index to target the poorest rural and urban municipalities in ten Mexican states. PAREB also
focused on the poorest communities and introduced educational performance criteria into the targeting
formula.  PAREB covered the 10 poorest states, in addition to the four in PARE, and targeted
municipalities with the most widespread poverty and worst levels of primary school completion. The
compensatory programs now covered the poorest 511 municipalities in the country. PIARE covered the
states that neither PARE or PAREB supported. IDB-financed PIARE project targeted all single-teacher,
multi-grade schools, and those schools in the poorest municipalities with the highest rates of failure in first
grade. Every compensatory program included all indigenous primary schools in rural areas.
In 1996 the government refined these targeting methodologies, making the school as the basic unit to be
targeted, in order to reach the poorest and worse-performing schools. The analysis consisted of a
comparison among all public schools in the country with respect to several education and socioeconomic
indicators, permitting the identification of the schools in the worse social and educational conditions. This
refinement was possible, due to significant improvements on the information base on Mexican schools.
The government introduced additional indicators of education performance at the school level, resulting in a
targeting methodology that combines poverty and educational performance data into a single index.
PAREIB Targeting Methodology: Ranking of Schools and Communities by Poverty and Educational
Performance.
The definition of the target schools in all phases of PAREIB uses a single set of targeting criteria for the
compensatory programs in all 31 states. Variables in the ranking index, chosen for their reliability,
consistency, availability, and absence of autocorrelation, are:
*      Poverty, measured by the CONAPO poverty index, which reflects per capita income of the
school's locality, infrastructure and housing characteristics, health conditions, literacy, educational
attainment of the population, and the availability of basic infrastructure;
*      Organizational-administrative school characteristics. measuring the school population and its
student-teacher ratio;
*      Educational performance, measuring failure, repetition and dropout rates.
- 120 -



The first three variables (poverty, school population and the student-teacher ratio) measure the school's
conditions, while the last three measure educational performance. The objectives and interventions for a
level of education determine the weights of these variables for that level. To facilitate this weighting, the
index converts all variables to standardized values. The following paragraphs summarize variable
characteristics.
Initial Education. Since initial education interventions are addressed to the parents of children aged 0-4,
the target are the poorest communities with preschool and/or primary education services. PAREIB uses the
CONAPO poverty index to select the communities to be served. When poor communities lack a formal
school but demand initial education services, CONAFE encourages local authorities to establish a
preschool.
Preschool. The efficiency indicators for the primary level are not relevant at the preschool level, where
attendance is not mandatory. The preschool index combines the poverty index with the student-teacher
ratio and dropout rates at pre-school level. Weights and value ranges of these indicators appear below:
Table 1: Weights and values of indicators used in poverty-performance index:
Pre-school level
Variable                              Weight     Minimum     Maximum
(%)         Value       Value
Poverty                                 60           0.7         3.0
Complexity (student-teacher ratio)      20           0.25         l.0
Dropout rate                            20           0.5          1.0
I   100            1.45        5.0
Primary. The primary level index combines all the above variables into a single index with the following
weights:
Table 2: Weights and values of indicators used in poverty-performance index:
Primary level
Variable                              Weight     Minimum     Maximum
(%)         Value       Value
Poverty                                 26.1         0.7         3.0
Density (student populafion)            8.7          0.25         1.0
Complexity (student-teacher ratio)      13.0         0.25         1.5
Failure rate                            17.4         0.5         2.0
Repetition rate                         17.4         0.5         2.0
Dropout rate                           17.4          0.5         2.0
100.0         2.5         11.5
Secondary. The secondary level (grades 7-9) is part of basic education, which is mandatory for all
children. Compensatory programs at this level focus on "television secondary schools" (telesecundarias),
which serve mainly rural areas and have the lowest levels of efficiency and student performance. At the
secondary level, simply focusing on school population indicators and the student-teacher ratio may be
misleading due to the prevalence of specialized, part-time teachers. Therefore, an adjusted secondary level
index takes these circumstances into account, as shown below:
- 121 -



Table 3: Weights and values of indicators used in poverty-performance index:
Secondary level
Variable                              Weight     Minimum     Maximum
(%)       Value        Value
Poverty                                 29.3       0.7          3.0
Complexity (student-teacher ratio)       2.4       0.25         1.0
Teacher to group ratio                   9.8       0.25         1.0
Failure rate                            19.5       0.5          2.0
Repetition rate                         19.5        0.5         2.0
Dropout rate                            19.5        0.5         2.0
100.0       2.5         11.25
Application of the Targeting Methodology.
The appropriate index for each level sorts schools at that level by quartiles, with the fourth quartile being
the worst-off; sorting results appear below.
Table 4: Number of schools Targeted in Phase 2, by Level and Quartile
Quartile     Pre-School          Pri ary      Secondary
Indig.  Non-indig.  Indig.  Non-indig.
4      2,970     5,057    5,399     11,918   1,152
3      4,409     1,350    1,879     10,088   2,126
2       276       807     1,241     5,469     446
1        10       443      623        661     512
7,665     7,657    9,142     28,136   4,236
Total         15,322            37,278         4,236
General Selection Criteria. Funding at all levels gives priority to the 250 micro-regions (constituting 476
municipalities) identified as priority zones for all government poverty-reduction programs. Nearly all
priority municipalities are indigenous and rural. The Project will primarily focus on rural areas, which
tend to have the highest poverty and lowest educational performance. The indices of Tables 1-3 guide
selection of beneficiary communities and schools; a summary by education level appears below.
Summary
Initial Education. The initial education program, a ten-month training for parents of children aged 0-4,
targets rural communities of 500-2,500 inhabitants. To optimize the program's impact on the educational
performance of its beneficiaries, attendance in preschool and timely enrollment in primary school must
follow the training. So beneficiary communities must have access to an existing or planned-to-exist
preschool. The presence of a preschool also increases the likelihood that parents' initial education training
will encourage parents' participation in their children's education. In communities that lack a preschool
but express interest in the initial education program, the Program may request municipal authorities to
provide access to preschool services. In communities where the Program has already offered initial
education and where the participants request additional training, the Program would support half the costs
of continuing the program.
- 122 -



Preschool (3 years). Of the 66,000 institutions offering preschool, PAREIB will target 15,322 schools or
23 percent, selected as follows:
(a)    Indigenous schools in quartile 3 and 4;
(b)    Non-indigenous schools in quartile 4, and
(c)    All schools in the 250 priority micro-regions.
The program would include about 490,000 preschool students.
Primary (grades 1-6). Of the 93,677 primary schools countrywide, PAREIB will target 37,278 or 40
percent, selected as follows:
(a)    All indigenous schools in rural areas;
(b)    All rural schools in the 250 priority micro-regions;
(c)    Non-indigenous rural schools in quartiles 3 and 4, and 50% of the rural schools in worse
conditions in quartile 2; and,
(d)    Marginal urban schools in quartile 4 that have been receiving benefits under previous
compensatory programs (1,597 schools). For the selection of primary schools, "urban" refers to
localities of between 2,500 and 15,000 inhabitants.
The Program would include about 4,216,000 students, including sustainability schools described below.
Sustainability Strategy for Primary Schools. In PAREIB Phase II, primary schools that have received
compensatory benefits in the past and now fall in the bottom half of quartile two would receive half the
ordinary compensatory support package, to help continue their improvements.
Lower-Secondary (grades 7-9) -TV-Secondary type (Telesecundaria).      Mexico has 15,025
Telesecundarias, of which 12,764 are located in rural areas. In the first phase of PAREIB, 6,061 rural
telesecundarias were targeted, and Phase II will target a total of 4,236 schools, selected as follows:
(a)    All rural telesecundarias in priority micro-regions; and
(b)    Telesecundarias in quartiles 3 and 4 in other rural municipalities.
About 275,000 students in these schools will benefit from improved infrastructure and/or computer
equipment.
Total. In all, the project will benefit approximately 5 million children of preschool through secondary
school and about 1.3 million children under four years old. Ideally, this re-targeting strategy to identify the
most disadvantaged schools will enhance the educational impact of the compensatory programs.
A school is rural if its locality has fewer than 2500 residents.
- 123 -



Additional Annex 14
World Bank Education Sector Strategy
MEXICO: Basic Education Development Phase II
I. Background
Mexico is in a period of change. These changes include an increase in political participation,
decentralization of decision making, increased participation in the global economy, technological
innovation, and a new public-private relationship. All of these changes have the potential to impact the
population, positively or negatively. The impact will be negative if the new and improved opportunities are
not open to a wide segment of the population, especially the poor.
Convinced of the importance of education, Mexico has set some targets, and has already achieved
important goals. They include (a) practically universal primary education; (b) rapid expansion of lower
secondary education, with formal educational attainment reaching nearly eight years; and (c) a program to
allow every adult access to lifelong learning opportunities. The average schooling level in Mexico
increased by roughly one year per decade during 1960-80 (from 2.76 to 4.77 years) and by two years in
the decade between 1980-90. In 1999 it was higher than seven years. The acceleration in schooling during
the 1980s, in turn, was the product of concerted efforts to increase education coverage: primary school net
enrollment rates increased from 91 to 98 percent over this period, yielding virtually complete coverage in
the first two grades. In the same period lower secondary net enrollment expanded from 48 to 58 percent,
and in the 1990s the government made a significant effort to reach universal coverage in lower secondary
(to complete nine years of basic education). There is a good gender balance in enrollment in basic
education in Mexico. The result of these improvements is that the share of workers with less than primary
education decreased from almost half of the labor force in 1984 to 36 percent in 1994, while the share of
workers with at least a completed secondary education increased from 26 to 39 percent.
Another important achievement is the trend in the 1990s of an increased allocation of resources to
the education sector, moving from 3.3 percent of GDP in 1989 to 5.1 percent in 1999, which helped the
country reach quantitative goals. Total public education spending per student in Mexico increased steadily
in the 1 990s, in spite of the increase in total student population. The federal government currently accounts
for 84 percent of total sector spending, mostly through state transfers, at a time when private sector
spending is decreasing (see Figures 1 and 2).
An additional achievement is that public expenditure for basic education (primary and lower
secondary) has increased from 59 percent in 1996 to about 65 percent in 1999, moving from 2.0 percent of
GDP in 1993 to 2.6 percent of GDP in 2001. Expenditure for upper secondary and higher education levels
has been declining, signaling that public spending on education has become more egalitarian in per capita
terms. In the early 1980s federal spending per university student was 10 times higher than spending per
primary students. Now it is closer to 5 times.
- 124 -



Figure 1                                       Figure 2
Education Spending per Student                Distribution of Education Expenditure by
sooo                                                            Source
4500-                                                   100%_
14000 -0%
13500-                                                    0
,3000                                                    6%
2500~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~400
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 I.:                           C141M1  '.TOil   Mm
1900  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  (7'  OZ, ' 0'
Year
| 3FederalhStale  OPrivate |              |     *Federal *State&Mwi 3ipaI  -P,vale |
wrae. IVIn/of,e ae GCoie,ma, /998.           Smffer IVIZfarme de Gbiemo, 199.8
II. Financial Resources
Efficiency in use of resources. Although federal spending for the education sector has been
growing in real terms, and in spite of the above-mentioned trend to support more basic education, a
benefit-incidence analysis shows that there is still an unequal distribution of public resources in the
education sector. Public spending on education in Mexico clearly benefits the poorest at the basic
education level, but it is also true that upper secondary and higher education public spending clearly
benefits the higher-income groups. Figures 3 and 4 compare the cumulative distribution of the various
education levels with the distribution of per capita annual total and federal public educational expenditures
to show that public expenditure is progressive for primary and lower secondary, and regressive for upper
secondary and, especially, higher education.  Public education expenditure benefits the rich
disproportionately. At the national level, public expenditure seems quite equal, as shown by the fact that
the expenditure line lies very close to the 45-degree diagonal.
When disaggregated by region, the benefit-incidence analysis shows that the public expenditure in
the Central region of Mexico follows the national pattern. In the South and Tabasco public expenditures
tend to be more progressive for primary and lower secondary than for the country as a whole. Even the
case of public investing in upper secondary tends to be neutral. For the North public investment in lower
secondary, upper secondary, and higher education is more regressive than in the rest of the country.
- 125-



Figure 3                                              Figure 4
Cumulative Distribution of Total Education           Cumulative Distribution of Federal Education
Expenditures, 1996 National                           Expenditures, 1996 National
-  <.*.  ,~~~~~~~~~  80-
50 
0
1   2    3   4    5   6    7   8    9   10            1    2   3   4    5   6    7   8    9   10
- Primary  .......-Lower Sec  - - - Upper Sec   ---- Primary     -.-.-.Lower Sec   ---- - Upper Sec
Tertiary         Total expend -   Equality     -- -. Tertiary         Fed expend    e   Equality
94IGH 1996 and DGPPyP, SEP.                    SoNne?. ENIGH 1996 and DGPPyP, SEP.
The need for targeting in the sector. The study of the impact of federal transfers on enrollment and
transition, based on analyses of Mexico's household income and expenditures surveys (ENIGH) as well as
state panel data, further reveal that increased spending for public education can have and did have
significant effects on enrollment and educational transition. Three points are worth highlighting here.
First, although the effects of Federal education transfers are significant, the size of their impact with
respect to an average child The estimated elasticities of lower secondary enrollment range from .03 to .15.
is quite modest, implying that a large increase in educational spending would be required to achieve
universal completion of lower secondary education. Second, the effectiveness of supply-side interventions
depends on local conditions. Table 1 shows that the elasticity of secondary enrollment rate with respect to
Federal education transfers per child in Hidalgo is about six times as much as in the Distrito Federal.
Third the effectiveness of Federal transfers can be increased considerably with appropriate targeting of
additional Federal education transfers to schools in rural and poor communities. The reason is that the
response rate of lower secondary enrollment with respect to Federal education spending is higher among
rural and poor children than among their well off urban counterparts. An explanation for this finding is
that schooling decision of poor and rural families are more sensitive to cost of education and, therefore, to
its reduction. Hence, it appears that providing supplementary or compensatory educational programs that
are targeted to these children can improve not only equity but also efficiency - in terms of enrollment and
student flow.
- 126-



Table 1. Enrollment Rate Elasticity Relative Federal Transfers
Per Child:Lower Secondary
State              GDP/person       Elasticity
Hidalgo                                  8.89           0.14
San Luis Potosi                          9.50          0.137
Guerrero                                 8.02          0.132
Nayarit                                  9.65          0.131
Zacatecas                                6.93          0.107
Oaxaca de Juarez                         6.10          0.107
Queretaro                               13.67          0.107
Campeche                                30.45          0.106
Durango                                  9.88          0.096
Quintana Roo                           24.89           0.093
Tabasco                                 10.01           0.092
Yucatan                                  9.87            0.09
Puebla                                   8.21          0.088
Morelos                                 13.81          0.086
Tamaulipas                              12.16           0.081
Veracruz                                 8.45           0.079
Tlaxcala                                 7.63           0.078
Michoacan de Ocampo                      6.92          0.074
Coahuila                                15.27           0.072
Colima                                  15.76           0.067
Chiapas                                  5.89           0.062
Baja California Sur                     14.96          0.061
Guanajuato                               9.35            0.06
Aquas Calientes                         12.59            0.06
Chihuahua                               12.62           0.057
Sinaloa                                 10.91           0.057
Sonora                                  15.29           0.047
Baja California Norte                   14.37           0.046
Mexico                                  10.89           0.045
Jalisco                                 13.05           0.038
Nueva Leon                              22.12           0.035
Distrito Federal                        33.71           0.024
National average                        13.08           0.073
Based on this information, it should be a priority to achieve more equity in access to education
services targeting the neediest. A relation between poverty and education is evident in Mexico when
comparing access to levels of education with poverty levels. All enrollment indicators decline when one
moves from the non-poor to the poor. Children from non-poor households enter the school system and stay
-127-



in school for a longer time than those from poorer households. There is a wide education gap between the
children of the poor and the children of the rich in terms of the differential enrollment rates at various age
levels, and this is true independently of gender, location, or region in the country (Attachment A, see tables
A. 1, A.2 and A.3). The differences are more noticeable at higher levels of education.
To further understand the relation between education and poverty, and given the strong emphasis
on poverty alleviation in Mexico, we can see that the probability of being a poor household head in Mexico
is associated with living in a rural area, being female, and being older. Education exerts a very powerful
negative effect on the probability of being poor-every year of additional education decreases by 5 percent
the chance of a household being classified as poor (see Attachment A, table A.4).
Distribution of benefits from public education spending. Opportunities for improving overall
educational equity can be gleaned from the distribution of Federal education transfers which constitute
about 84 percent of total public education expenditure. Because of near universal primary enrollment and
the use by rich families of private schools, per child benefit from primary public school subsidy by the
Federal government is strongly pro-poor. In contrast, public spending on upper secondary and university
education are strongly pro-rich, while lower secondary education is pro-middle class, as indicated in the
last section.
The reason for this is two-fold. First, due to low school participation rate among the low income
groups in post-compulsory education, the share of poor children is low at this level of education; in fact, it
is minuscule in tertiary education (see Attachment). Because of this pattern, coupled with the fact that
public subsidy per student in these higher levels of education is several times greater than in primary
education, Federal education spending on the whole favors the well-off.
The above analysis probably overestimates the progressiveness of public spending on primary
schools and underestimates its regressiveness at higher levels of education. The reason is that it assumes
uniform per student cost within each level of education. In fact, certain population groups (like children of
urban middle class families) likely go to better funded public schools.
Another opportunity for improving equity relates to the distribution of Federal education spending
per child on basic education among states. This issue has been of great interest to policy makers because
of its relevance to the design and implementation of the Government's decentralization policy. To analyze
this issue, a fixed-effect model, using state panel data was estimated (see Table 2). The results show that
consistent with the priority Government is giving to the rural sector, states that are less urbanized get
substantially more Federal education transfers per child. Holding urbanization rate and other variables
constant, however, it appears that states with a high poverty rate tend to get significantly less Federal
financial assistance per child. Moreover, those states with relatively more indigenous population do not
appear to be getting more Federal expenditure per child.
- 128 -



Table 2. Determinants of Per Child Federal Education Transfer Among
States, 19901995, by level of Educatioiixed-Effect Model
Dependent: federal spending per        Primary                  Lower Secondary
Child (FEDP)
Independent Variables:        Co-efficient    t-value     Co-efficient    t-value
Lag_FEDP                              .428         4.87           .170          1.54
State revenues                      -.0263        -1.34          -.107         -2.49
Marginality index                  -.0382         -2.17          -.103         -2.62
Urbanization rate                   -1.903        -3.48         -1.783         -1.34
Percent indigenous                  .0133          0.23          .0277          0.22
Gross enrollment ratio              .1006          0.37           .529          1.43
Year 2 dummy                         -.147        -2.69            155         -2.04
Year 3 dummy                          .013         0.32           0.67          1.11
Year 4 dummy                          .016         0.66           .193          4.44
Year 5 dummy                          .145         7.93           .303          9.71
Year 6 dummy (omitted)
_constant                           8.112          3.A6          8.276          1.44
Adjusted R square                    0.928                       0.773
Sample size                            158                        158
Source: Bank staff estimate based state panel data
1/ The variables are in natural logarithm except for the dummy variables for year.
External efficiency ofprimary, secondary, and higher education. Private returns to education in
Mexico are substantive. Those of primary education have steadily fallen over the years from about 40
percent in the 1980s to about 15 percent in the 1990s, as a result of the near-universal coverage of primary
education, but they are still significant. Lower and upper secondary have also fallen, but to a lesser extent.
They were around 20 percent in the early 1990s. The private returns to university education have fallen
and risen with the economic growth of the economy, but are still high. Regarding social returns, those for
higher education are slightly lower than those for primary education (12 percent), and than those for lower
and upper secondary education (around 15 percent in both cases), but still relatively high at about 11
percent in the early 1990s. Private returns to technical education are also substantive in Mexico, mainly
after some minimum threshold of basic general education.
External efficiency indicators show that Mexico has reached a point where the secondary level of
education must be expanded, just as the government is trying to do. Indicators also show that primary
education quality needs further improvements. After all, and for reasons of positive social externalities,
universal primary education of good quality should be an overriding consideration that goes beyond
measured (internalized) monetary costs and benefits.
Because there is little room for increased public spending in Mexico, it is necessary to look
carefully at the imbalances between investment and recurrent expenditures by, among other things,
rationalizing human resources in the sector and analyzing personnel expenditures; and better allocating and
using available education resources, including more intensive use of private sector financing and
exploration of increased sub-national contributions to education.
-129-



III. Conclusions
There are several implications of the above financial analysis:
First, it is unlikely that in the foreseeable future sufficient resources would be made available to the
education sector to enable the Ministry of Education to fully meet the education challenge. Hence,
it is necessary to have clear priorities. The government will have to face a trade-off between the
educational improvement of one group of children and that of another. It will also have to balance
the competing claims of basic and post-basic education on public resources.
Second, achievement of rapid and sustained economic growth will be critical. It is needed to
increase public revenues and enable families to spend more of their own money to raise and
improve their children's education.
Third, a multi-pronged, long term education strategy is necessary to achieve those objectives. On
this point, there is need for a strategic plan for the next decade and experimentation with
non-conventional approaches.
Finally, there is need for greater resource mobilization and better use of available resources.
Given these findings, the Bank strategy to collaborate with Mexico in the education sector can be
summarized as follows:
The Bank has supported the Compensatory Education Programs since 1991. Through these
programs, the Government of Mexico (GOM) is precisely trying to make more efficient use of the public
resources at the same time that equity gains are achieved. By focusing on the poorest communities by
investing additional resources on pre-school, primary and lower secondary education the GOM is moving in
the right direction.
There is no theoretical appropriate proportion of GNP or public spending that should be devoted to
education. More educational achievement could be obtained with the same public resources, in particular
by focusing public spending on the lower levels of education and increasing its internal efficiency while
relying more on private financing at the higher levels. This is precisely the policy the Bank is supporting
with the Compensatory Programs (PAREIB APL), where we are only spending an additional 10 percent of
the unitary cost per student with significant improvements in internal efficiency and academic achievement.
This program, financed by the federal government, is a way to canalize education investment to the poorest
communities and is implemented by CONAFE, a federal agency, in coordination with the states education
secretariats, that prepare annual work plans for the compensatory program.
In addition, the Bank is also supporting operations that are trying to improve the efficiency of
public spending in education. For example, with the Financing of Higher Education project whose general
development objective is to assist the GOM in promoting equity and quality in the preparation of university
graduates (improving access to higher education, particular to academically able but financially needy
students and developing more effective financially sustainable student loans institutions), the Bank is
helping the GOM in finding alternative financial resources to increase enrollment, whether they are used at
private or at publicly funded institutions. Should the project be successful, the operation of a viable
student loan scheme which offers greater opportunities to low income students will allow the GOM to rely
increasingly on private higher education to promote expansion at that level without a significant increase in
- 130 -



public funding.
- 131 -



To complement our strategy in the education sector, the Bank has been working with the GOM to
improve efficiency of technical and vocational education through several projects by rationalizing the role
of the public sector in technical and vocational education: (a) by ensuring that training is closely linked to
effective employment demand (this objective has been the focus of three projects supporting CONALEP
and PEMTyC, (b) by expanding private training (PEMTyC), and (c) by using training to promote equity
(PROBECAT and CMO).
Finally, the Bank is also dealing with educational issues at the state level. The first operation that
the Bank had with a state (Estado de Mexico - EdoMex), supporting the GOM in strengthening its
decentralization reform process (Estado de Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan) includes key education
sector measures in the policy conditionality to support the state with the financial and technical means to
provide key social services, that have been decentralized with transfer of the budget to the states. This
particular operation is helping Mexico to ensure macroeconomic stability, which is essential for reducing
poverty, and to increase the resources for education services to the poor. The program includes, among
others, the following actions: raising taxes and improving enforcement, commercializing appropriate state
assets, strengthening the state pension system, and also rationalizing expenditure for education and health.
Education accounts for about 60 percent of programmable state spending, net of debt service and
municipal transfers. Coverage of basic education is good in EdoMex, with almost all children attending
primary schools and significant recent increases in the number attending secondary. Despite the successes
in reducing the number of students repeating grades or dropping out, many of the students completing
primary and secondary school have not obtained the knowledge and skills envisaged in the curriculum or
needed to succeed in the job market. In 1993 the Federal Government turned over almost all of its basic
education activities to the state; at that time, EdoMex already had its own parallel system of comparable
size, albeit relatively concentrated in rural areas. EdoMex, more than most states, has expanded the
coverage of basic education, and still today has one of the highest per student expenditures in the
federation.
The federal and EdoMex education systems continue to operate independently within the state,
each with a full administrative superstructure and no effective coordination between them, even in planning.
Competing for students on the basis of quality of instruction could be good, but the system does not work
that way. The former federal system gets earmarked resources from the Federal Government on the basis
of the cost of the pre-1993 system, with adjustments negotiated on the basis of inflation and state
population, and implicitly political influence. The federal Secretary of Education negotiates teacher wages
with the national union. Allocation of teachers within the former-federal system is supposedly based on
demand factors, like number of students, although union rules limit the impact of such factors. The state
system is even more explicitly driven by the supply of teachers, who are effectively guaranteed a job if they
graduate from teachers' schools (escuelas normales). In addition, they are allowed to choose their work
location after a few years seniority, often choosing administrative positions or urban schools that are
already relatively well staffed.
In addition, teachers are not held accountable for educational outcomes and often not even for their
own attendance, especially in rural areas. The supervisors are union representatives. Because of the
volume of resources going to the sector, the EdoMex Secretary of Finance has effectively managed its
budget, reallocating some of the federal education transfers to the state part of the sector and, at times, even
outside the education sector. The EdoMex Secretary of Education lacks real responsibility for outcomes m
132 -



the sector because so many of the critical decisions are taken by others-the state and federal teachers'
unions, the federal Secretary of Education, and the state Secretary of Finance.
Reform of this large and complex sector will start with measures to control its overall
dimensions-real outlays and teacher recruitment-and will take initial steps to rationalize its organization
and increase accountability for performance and efficiency. First, to protect this critical sector during the
adjustment process, the education budget, in real per-student terms, will not be reduced from its 2000 level.
Second, to end the traditional practice of letting the supply of normal-school graduates drive the personnel
process, the state will set specific teacher recruitment targets (and limits) based on the number of students
(demand for education) and will achieve a more even distribution of student/teacher ratios across rural and
urban schools and across educational levels. These policies will follow the national standards, which are
already in place in most states, but not in EdoMex. They will provide a systematic basis to assure that
schools in high poverty areas get at least the standard allocation of teachers per student. The new practice
of publishing the territorial allocation of education spending, by municipality, will generate complementary
pressures for equal treatment. The Inter-Secretarial Finance Committee will also issue a formal instruction
to put the state and (formerly) federal schools under a single, unified personnel management system, which
will address another area where EdoMex lags behind most other states Third, the 2001 budget law will
specify performance and impact indicators for the public education system, and will grant the Secretaria de
Educaci6n authority in the management of its budget, so that the agency can be held accountable to achieve
the expected results. The Government will propose a law to make these innovations permanent. While
more detailed education reforms will need to follow in EdoMex and across the nation, with direct
involvement from the Federal Government Schools in EdoMex are included as beneficiaries of the
PAREIB APL II project. , it is critical to accelerate the reform process in the nation's largest state, which
as of now lags well behind best practice in the country, and which can provide a model for assistance to
other states. Adjustment operations at the state level may be used as an instrument to correct equity in the
distribution of federal resources.
IV. Options for the future.
Basic Strategies. Despite Mexico's notable educational achievement in the 1990s, much remains to be
done. First, data indicate that student learning needs further improvements. This is evident from the low
standardized learning achievement test scores of many students. Second, observers have pointed out that
what students leam is largely limited to rote memorization, regurgitation of facts, and mechanical
application of formulae. Observers also argue that teaching quality needs improvement. Many students
are not leaming how to think and develop knowledge in school. Third, many students, particularly those in
poor, rural, and indigenous communities, continue to be left behind by their more fortunate peers who go to
relatively better schools.
The country needs to confront this learning issue. Improving student learning equitably in both the
quantitative and qualitative senses is fundamental to the future of Mexico and its ability to fully take
advantage of accelerating technological progress and global competition. It is also essential for bringing
about greater equity by ensuring that the return to education, which continues to be the most important
instrument for poverty alleviation, is kept high.
To meet the above challenge, the states would have to develop their own vision and strategy based
on school-level realities. Decentralization reform has given the states the responsibility for the development
of their basic education system and opportunities to accommodate national norms, and to try out new ways
of ratcheting up the performance of its schools that are consistent with local realities. In this regard, they
need to be more aware of the critical issues facing schools and to find solutions that, to ensure
-133 -



sustainability, take into account the views of school stakeholders (students, parents, teachers, principals,
supervisors, and state education officials). Without changes in school practices and the way children learn,
the expected fruits of decentralization in terms of sustained improvements in student learning will not fully
materialize.
Based on these issues, the central education development challenges that Mexico faces are: (a) to
selectively expand accessibility at the initial and preschool and higher education levels Relative to its level
of economic development Mexico has a very low coverage of higher education.; (b) to improve the quality
of education throughout the system; (c) expand access to education as a key element for reduction of
poverty and social inequality; (d) to invest in the skills and education of the labor force to better adapt to
rapid economic and technical changes which would reinforce the country's economic competitiveness; and
(e) to support the decentralization process at the state level, aiming at higher efficiency in the use of
resources.
Strategic Objectives
Some broad objectives are to:
Enhance the international competitiveness of Mexico by creating a highly educated and flexible
labor force.
Address the requirements put forward by the emergence both of an information society and of a
knowledge-base economy.
Promote equity and poverty reduction.
Advance democracy through the broad-based participation of an educated and informed citizenry.
*      Build community cohesion, tolerance and social trust in a multicultural environment.
*      Enhance govemance in education by modemizing and professionalizing the education
administration.
More specific objectives are to:
*      Increase lower secondary education enrollment to 75 percent.
Encourage enrollments in cost-effective, demand-designed, technical/vocational education.
Increase higher education participation to levels comparable with countries of similar economic
development.
Eradicate adult illiteracy and establish the foundations of a life long leaming strategy whereby
every working adult will periodically engage in deliberate education or training activities.
Stimulate effective multicultural policies in the schools, especially within the context of bilingual
education.
Improve leaming achievement of basic education students.
-134 -



*      Disseminate IT-supported strategies in basic and secondary schools.
*      Reduce educational inequality by focusing on educational deficits of poor and indigenous
populations.
Two Strategic Pathways to Educational Improvement
For World Bank assistance, a comprehensive approach to education strategy would be desirable,
given the diversity of local conditions, the causes of education deficits, and the needs of children across
socioeconornic and demographic lines. Within this general approach, interventions options can be
classified into supply-side and demand-side measures.
Supply-side Measures. These interventions are directed at the expansion of supply and
improvement in the quality of education services. Examples include: (a) federal education transfers to
finance public schools and teachers; (b) diversified compensatory programs, as we are already doing with
PAREIB APL II, and rural and indigenous programs; (c) strengthening teacher support and professional
development; (d) distance education technology (Telesecundaria); (e) textbook programs; (f) public
education system decentralization; (f) strengthening adult education.
Demand-side Measures. These interventions are directed at reducing the cost of education to the
family and change their attitudes. They include: (a) providing children and their parents resources for their
education (for example, PROGRESA); (b) promoting mass media campaigns to promote education; (c)
further supporting student loans programs for higher education as provided by ICEES and SOFES.
Until recently, almost all government interventions to improve education have been on the supply
side. The one exception is PROGRESA. Public education expenditure on supply-side interventions can be
effective, but its impact is limited by a number of factors. These include: (i) the nature of the supply and
demand constraints limiting learning achievement and educational attainment; (ii) the design of intervention
and choice of inputs to finance; (iii) the quality of implementation; and (iv) the institutional context,
structure of incentives, and management capacity.
Agenda for Investment Development
A comprehensive education agenda should include the following elements This agenda is
complemented with ESW design to: (i) identify cost-effective ways to improve quality of education; (ii)
identify issues in the sector and ways to solve them, including definition of investment operations,
participation in adjustment operations; and, (iii) improve technical dialogue with the Federal and State
Governnents . As an example of studies that the Bank has conducted during the last years in Mexico we
have the following topics: Education and Earnings Inequality in Mexico; Earnings Inequality after
Mexico's Economic and Educational Reform; Mexico's Preschools: Coverage, Equity and Impact; Gender
Differences in Education in Mexico; Technical Education and Training modernization: Evidence from
Private Firms and Workers; Advancing Educational Equity and Productivity in the Context of
Decentralization; and, Transforming Schools into effective and Efficient Learning Centers. This FY we are
working on a study on Quality of Basic Education.:
Federal lending. The federal level should address: (a) demand for greater coverage of preschool
education including ECD; (b) equity in delivery of preschool and basic education; (c) expansion of demand
for secondary education; (d) relevance of curricula in basic education for rural and indigenous areas, and in
technical education; (e) quality of teaching and learning environment; (f) effective use of key modem
-135 -



technology (IT, science education, etc.); (g) effective standards setting supported by quality assurance and
assessment systems; (h) external efficiency in technical and higher education; (i) access of low-income
households to higher education by releasing demand constraints; (j) school autonomy and community
participation in education management; (k) consolidation of strategic roles at the federal government level,
including standard setting; (1) management capacity needs of state governments; (m) improved regulation
and stimulation of more private delivery in education and training; and (n) strengthening adult education
programs supporting supply and demand approaches.
State lending (via federal government). At the state level, the following issues of institutional
capacity should be addressed: (a) develop state sector policy; (b) prepare, implement, and assess projects;
(c) rationalize human resources; and (d) improve the efficiency of resource allocation.
ATTACHMENT- STATISTICALTABLES
Table A.1. Total and Public Enrollment by Poverty Level, Gender, & Education Level,
in Percentages
Poverty             Male                     Female                    Total
Level    I    A11    I   Pubiic         All    1   Public         All    1   Public
Primary (611 yearS od)
Extreme          93.5        93.5         93.2         93.2         93.3         93.3
Moderate         95.7        95.7         96.4        . 96.4        96.0         96.0
Non-poor         96.1        95.5         96.2         96.0         96.1         95.7
Total            94.8        94.6         95.0         94.8         94.9         94.7
Lower Secondary (1a4   ars old)
Extreme          38.7        38.6         37.0         36.6         37.9         37.6
Moderate         65.1        64.9         64.7         64.9         64.8         64.9
Non-Poor         78.1        77.2         80.2         80.4         79.1         78.8
Total            58.4        57.3         58.4         57.6         58.4         57.4
Upper S condary (1A7  ears old)
Extreme          14.4        13.1         14.5         12.6         14.5         12.9
Moderate         37.4        35.4         34.4         31.4         36.0         33.5
Non-poor         53.4        47.2         62.9         53.7         58.0         50.1
Total            35.1        31.1         37.9         31.4         36.4         31.2
Univerty (1824 yearS old)
Extrene          1.7          1.7          1.9    |     1.4         1.85          1.6
Moderate         6.7          6.2          6.1          5.8          6.4          5.9
Non-poor         23.8        17.4         20.2         14.9         22.0         16.1
Total            13.3         9.8         10.8          8.2         12.0          8.9
Seem:- World Bank calculations based on ENIGH, 1996.
- 136-



r   .  .;                                                     .;                                                              io                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 2354; 
' ~~~~~r*_ ~~~. ,                                                                                                                          M     E X      I C O
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P fiN-                                 v 0                                                        N.!. ..,P.", 
COatmaX -'> I ' \. ^ e e a b L S s $ r-- '\ .'>la;Ll LOD.ILTAA
. ,   .   ia  *: . 6J8r l     mo   5        (               4  su<@1 Z  e9  q         F _-                                 -   O.S.deI A  .A .I  j A I
f   _ R       _             l_       >     ;      ;  =     ; t       <       L     ;                                      -  SIK-6 _ n *W3-1Yit,1 PO   1 1)
2  S E  TX      MdU1znDL#-~~F                                                rg       Eil                                    --nerOZ~'Al 
~~~~~~~~J fIVt.............-' wag,  - 
+                       -  4  >  | ~~~~~~SC .. z s ,75 j.. 
:4                                                                                                                         ;  -  -g4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ,N7W,R -T=1,f
AXS-o
^ _-1-& - W S3: *s SW ' ' / '/+_ t D^t^c^t = e_ c,'^^a ' ,, rE .s: R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
MD~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ 3 '  .r-wSgh g-'m\ ;,r ,1, 



