Report No. PID10256
Project Name                     Mexico-Basic Education Development Phase II
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Other Education
Project ID                       MXPE57531
Borrower(s)                      NACIONAL FINANCIERA (NAFIN)
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (SEP) THROUGH
CONAFE
(Consejo Nacinal de Fomento Educativo)
Rio Elba 20, Piso 16; Col. Cuauhtemoc 06500;
Mexico, D.F.; Mexico
Contact Person: Lic. Carlos Marquez Perez,
Director General
Tel: 5-211-2423
Fax: 5-553-3462
Email: cmarquez@conafe.edu.mx
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                April 27, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         June 11,2001
Projected Board Date             September 18, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
In the last decades, Mexico has made important progress in providing
primary education access to most children. Today primary education
coverage is nearly 90w, with about 86t completion rate; enrollment in
lower secondary education is about 83t of 13-15 year-olds, with about 75t
completion. Despite recent progress, however, universal coverage remains
a challenge and the quality of basic education is still far below
international standards. In the early 1990s, the Federal and state
governments and the Teachers' Union began a concerted effort to address
these problems, undertaking bold policy reforms and placing greater
emphasis on compensatory programs that provide extra support to education
for specific disadvantaged groups (students living in rural or marginal
urban areas, and handicapped, migrant and indigenous children). The main
issues facing the Government's compensatory education programs are as
follows: (a) low readiness for learning among children entering school,
(b) inadequate training for teachers working with at-risk students (c)
poor fit between education programs and the needs of students and of the
community, (d) deficient supervisory practices, (e) low secondary
education coverage, (f) weak managerial and administrative capacity at the
state level, (g) organization fragmentation of compensatory programs by
level and type, (h) lack of critical inputs in schools located in poor,
rural, indigenous communities and marginal urban areas. These issues are
being addressed under the Government's Education Development Program
(PDE), which the Bank has been supporting since its inception. For the
period 2001-2007, the SEP/CONAFE strategy focuses on improving the quality
of education for students in the poorest areas by establishing minimum
operational standards for all targeted schools, developing innovative



programs to address the needs of students, involving schools and
communities in the decision-making process at the school level, and
developing the institutional capacity of states to design and implement
national education policies and compensatory programs.
2. Objectives
The Basic Education Development Program in its Phase I had as objectives
to: (a) provide quality improvements in initial and basic education and
non-traditional modalities of post-primary education; (b) improve the
school supervision system; (c) develop and implement improved school-based
school management strategies; (d) design and pilot new education
modalities to better meet the needs of migrant children, children aged
9-14 in urban marginal areas, and indigenous children in general primary
schools; and (e) strengthen institutional capacity for planning,
programming, and evaluation at the federal and state levels and for system
management. These goals were largely achieved. In fact, many targets
were exceeded by substantial margins; compliance still needs to be
documented with respect to two triggers, and only one of the triggers for
the preparation of Phase II has not been achieved.      The development
objectives of Phase II are to: (a) consolidate and expand quality
improvements in initial and basic education and non-traditional modalities
of post-primary education, covering, inter alia, school supervision,
teacher training, materials provision, and implementation of tested
school-based management strategies; (b) strengthen education system
management through support for the Government's ongoing strategy to
integrate the organization and management of basic education (pre-school
through lower secondary); (c) operationalize a competitive fund at
state-level to support education initiatives proposed by schools; and (d)
continue strengthening states' institutional capacity to plan, program,
and evaluate the delivery of basic education services.    Phase III
objectives would focus on the fine-tuning of the basic education service
provision mechanisms based on a more fully developed decentralization
model.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has contributed both technically and financially to the evolution
of the Mexican compensatory education strategy. The lessons of each
project have been incorporated in successive projects, and the Bank has
been able to share lessons learned from experiences in other countries,
many of which have been adapted to the Mexican context within the ongoing
program. The proposed Phase II project represents a critical step toward
consolidation of many dispersed efforts under one umbrella, with an
integrated and coherent approach nationwide. In addition, the Bank's
continued support will help ensure continuity and would enhance the
overall institutional memory at a time of transition within the
Government. Finally, the Bank's collaborative approach to the design of
the program with SEP/CONAFE and SEPEs has resulted in increased dialogue
and cooperation at many institutional levels.
4. Description
Phase II Program components include:I. Quality Improvements in Initial and
Basic Education. The objective of this component is to expand
quality-enhancing activities carried out in Phase I, covering additional
targeted schools and communities at initial, preschool, primary, and
lower-secondary levels, both in rural and marginal urban areas. It will
- 2 -



expand the innovative posprimaria program (a highly adaptable modality for
lower secondary) successfully piloted in the first phase. Phase II will
also provide the opportunity to rationalize and integrate nationwide
organization and financing of all compensatory programs (initial education
and basic education comprising preschool through lower-secondary levels).
It will finance, inter alia, the following: (a) educational materials and
equipment for students, teachers, and schools; (b) training for teachers,
supervisors and other administrative staff; (c) support and technical
assistance to community or school associations for school-based management
activities and quality improvements (proyectos escolares); (d)
improvement of the school supervision function; and (e) construction or
rehabilitation of education infrastructure in targeted communities.II.
Strengthening Institutional Capacity at Federal and State Levels. This
component will further strengthen the management capacity of key sector
entities at both federal and state levels through the following
activities: (a) strengthening the SEP national management structure and
evaluation system; (b) supporting the implementation of education planning
and evaluation of education outcomes at state level; and (c) strengthening
the role of the Secretariats of Education (SEPEs) to better provide basic
education services by reinforcing their capacity to plan, program, budget,
monitor and evaluate the delivery of these services. Activities to be
financed include technical assistance at federal and state levels for:
(i) the development more efficient management practices, (ii) the
implementation of the national assessment, evaluation, and planning
systems, and (iii) SEPEs' institutional building priorities.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 370.0
6. Implementation
Nacional Financiera S.C.N.(NAFIN) will continue as the Borrower, with the
guarantee of the United Mexican States. NAFIN is responsible for
submitting withdrawal applications to the Bank, maintaining (along with
CONAFE) separate records and accounts for all transactions under the loan,
and having the deposit accounts audited in accordance with standard Bank
requirements.The National Council for Educational Development (CONAFE),
the agency responsible for compensatory programs, will have principal
responsibility for implementation and will coordinate all implementation
activities on behalf of SEP. CONAFE has extensive experience implementing
Bank- and IDB-financed projects. CONAFE will exercise its project
coordination responsibilities through a Compensatory Programs Unit (CPU),
with participation of SEP's normative units. The CPU is adequately
organized and staffed to perform the required administrative, supervisory
and financial management functions; in particular, its financial
management unit has been recently strengthened with skilled staff. Its
responsibilities include project execution activities; yearly work plan
review consolidation and program execution; procurement; annual
implementation review information preparation; liaison with state-level
offices; and monitoring of project objectives, goals, processes, and
deadlines in coordination with SEP and the SEPEs. The states, through
their SEPEs, plan and execute compensatory education activities according
to a set of national guidelines, which specify the targeted schools and
communities, menu of supported activities, educational norms to be met,
and procedures. The SEPEs prepare annual work plans for the compensatory
- 3 -



programs, including procurement plans for the coming year, which are
consolidated by CONAFE at federal level. Procurement is carried out by
CONAFE either at the central level (e.g., under ICB or NCB) or by
state-level CONAFE Delegations in SEPEs or at the municipal or school
level in the case of smaller contracts. The Delegations are the same
units that implemented the PAREB and PIARE projects, as well as Phase I of
PAREIB.   The institutional capacity of CONAFE is deemed satisfactory.As
under previous projects, education infrastructure program to be
constructed or rehabilitated by municipalities is planned at the state
level and consolidated by CONAFE for submittal to the Ministry of
Finance. Authorized funds are channeled through the Borrower, NAFIN,
which subsequently transfers allocations to each state on a quarterly
basis through commercial banks.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of Bank-financed education projects in Mexico,
including PAREIB Phase I, has been demonstrated by the fact that
successful interventions under these projects have been mainstreamed by
SEP and subnational governments at state and municipal. Innovative models
tested in PAREIB Phase I have been generalized to the entire system. The
SEPEs in several states have begun to undertake their own compensatory
programs, and several municipalities now finance additional community
instructors for initial education. This process is expected to continue
as the effectiveness of specific interventions is demonstrated and as the
process of decentralization increasingly devolves responsibility to
subnational governments. The active involvement of stakeholders at
various levels of program operation helps ensure that new or modified
activities will be continued after the end of PAREIB Phase III. At the
community and school level, the success of parental participation in
school councils, has given parents a greater awareness of their role in
the education of their children, which bodes well for their continued
participation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
This proposal incorporates lessons learned from Phase I of the Program and
all previous education projects in Mexico, as well as those with similar
objectives elsewhere in Latin America. In summary, the main lessons are:
(a) it is important to work within an overall policy framework; (b)
achievement and sustainability of fundamental changes in organization and
operation of educational processes require that ownership and
participation be continuously reconfirmed and reinforced throughout
project design and implementation; (c) for compensatory programs to be
effective, targeting mechanisms should be as precise as possible; (d) it
is the synergy of all of the key inputs and factors of student success
that produces the most significant impact; (e) it is important to identify
the factors that contribute most to student learning; (f) success of a
long-term strategy for quality improvement requires sufficient flexibility
to adapt program interventions to local needs and to evolving experience;
(g) in-service teacher training must be combined with classroom-based
technical assistance in order to produce lasting teaching/learning
results.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
- 4 -



Issues         There are no significant environmental issues.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Anna Maria Sant'Anna
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (525) 480-4263
Fax:   (525) 480-4222
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 4, 2001.
- 5 -



