Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
January 26 , 2004 
 
Dr. Andrés Conesa Labastida 
Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Palacio Nacional, Patio Central, Mezanninne 
Col. Centro 
México, D.F. 06000 
 
Re:     Loan 7108-ME (Basic Education Development Project- 
Phase II)  Second Amendment to the Loan Agreement 
 
Dear Sir:  
 
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and United Mexican States (the Borrower) dated September 
30, 2002, and amended on December 18, 2002, with respect to the above-captioned 
Project.  Terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in 
the Loan Agreement. 
 
Following the request made by Nacional Financiera S.NC. in its letter dated 
November 10, 2003, acting as financial agent of the Borrower under this Project, we 
hereby propose to amend Section 4.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement as follows: 
 
“(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover 
such calendar semester.” 
 
As a consequence of the amendment referred in the above paragraph, the Loan 
Agreement shall read in its entirety as set forth in the attachment to this letter. 
 
Page  2
2
Please confirm your agreement to said amendment by signing and dating the two 
originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to us.  This 
amendment shall enter into effect as of its date first above written, upon receipt by the Bank 
of one original of this letter signed by you.
 
Sincerely yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
By  /s/ Miguel López Bakovic 
Acting Director 
Country Management Unit 
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela 
 
AGREED:  
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By: /s/ Andrés Conesa Labastida 
Authorized Representative 
 
Date: March 8, 2004 
Page  3
3
Attachment 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7108-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Basic Education Development Project 
–
Phase II) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 30, 2002 
(as amended through January 26, 2004) 
Page  4
4
LOAN NUMBER 7108-ME 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 2002, as amended through January 26, 2004, between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the Borrower), represented by its signatory on page 15 of this 
Agreement. 
 
WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated April 28, 1998, 
which letter describes the Borrower’s policies and strategies (the Program) with respect to the 
basic education sector in Mexico; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Program through a series of 
loans to the Borrower over a period of approximately nine years; 
 
(C) 
on October 4, 1998, NAFIN (as defined below) and the Bank entered into a loan 
agreement, and the United Mexican States and the Bank entered into a guarantee agreement, to 
finance the first phase of the Program; and 
 
(D)  
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms part of the second phase of the 
Program, has requested the Bank to assist it in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower, in support of the second phase of the Program, upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Basic Education” means pre-school (i.e., four and five year-old children), 
primary (i.e., grades 1 through 6) and lower-secondary (i.e., grades 7 through 9) education levels;  
 
Page  5
5
(b)  
“CONAFE” means the Borrower’s National Council for Educational Development 
(
Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo
); 
 
(c) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(d)  
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the Borrower 
to the Bank, containing the indicators to be used in monitoring and evaluating implementation of 
the Project; 
 
(e) 
“Loan 3407-ME” means the loan governed by an agreement entered into between 
NAFIN and the Bank on October 14, 1991 (as amended);  
 
(f) 
“Loan 3722-ME” means the loan governed by an agreement entered into between 
NAFIN and the Bank on June 30, 1994 (as amended);  
 
(g) 
“Loan 4333-ME” means the loan governed by an agreement entered into between 
NAFIN and the Bank on October 4, 1998 (as amended);  
 
(h) “NAFIN” 
means 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
,
the financial agent of the Borrower;  
 
(i) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(j)  
“Parents’ Associations” means any one of the Parents’ Associations (
Asociaciones 
de Padres de Familia
)
referred to in the Borrower’s 1993 General Education Law (
Ley General de 
Educación
,
published in the Borrower’s 
Diario Oficial de la Federación
 (Official Gazette) on July 
13, 1993 (as amended)), associated with a particular Project Public School; 
 
(k) 
“Participation Agreement” means an agreement (
Convenio de Coordinación
)
entered into between CONAFE and a State pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement; 
 
(l)  
“Project Public School” means a State-administered school in which all or some 
basic education (pre-school and grades 1 through 9) level classes are held; 
 
(m)  
“School Council” means any one of the Social Participation School Councils 
(
C
onsejos Escolares de Participación Social
)
referred to in the Borrower’s 1993 General Education 
Law (
Ley General de Educación
,
published in the Borr
ower’s 
Diario Oficial de la Federación
 
(Official Gazette) on July 13, 1993 (as amended)), associated with a particular Project Public 
School; 
 
(n) 
“School Grant” means any of the grants of up to $2,000 equivalent per year to be 
given to School Councils or Parents’ Association under Part A.4 of the Project for: (i) repairs and 
rehabilitation; (ii) minor infrastructure improvements; and (iii) school management activities but 
not strict routine school maintenance activities; 
 
(o) 
 
“SEP” means the Borrower’s Public Education Secretariat (
Secretaría de 
Educación Pública
); 
 
(p) 
“SEPE” means a State’s Public Education Secretariat (
Secretaría de Educación 
Pública Estatal
)
or equivalent; 
Page  6
6
(q) 
“SHCP” means the Borrower’s Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit 
(
S
ecretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Público
); 
 
(r)  
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
 
(s) 
“State” means the Federal District (
Distrito Federal
)
and any of the other thirty one 
geopolitical subdivisions (
Estados
)
of the Borrower; 
 
(t) 
“State Plan” means each of the annual plans for implementation of initial, pre-
school, primary or lower-secondary public education initiatives in a State, which plans are prepared 
by the State and include, 
inter alia
,
the indicators and schedules for implementation of Part A of the 
Project within such State as well as the associated procurement plan;  
 
(u)  
“UCE” means a CONAFE State Project Coordination Unit (
Unidad Coordinadora 
Estatal
); and 
 
(v)  
“UPC” means CONAFE’s General Unit for Compensatory Programs (
Unidad de 
Programas Compensatorios
). 
Page  7
7
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to three hundred million Dollars 
($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the 
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 
4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project and through NAFIN, open and 
maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in 
Banco de México 
on
terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) eighty five one-
hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to 
accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions to but not 
including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent 
(0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance with 
the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and  other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Page  8
8
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to 
the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest Period shall be 
changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
(d) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance with 
Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for such 
purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10. The 
Director
 
de Financiamientos Internacionales
 of NAFIN and any person 
or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Page  9
9
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall provide promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project, and shall cause CONAFE to 
carry out the Project, in coordination
 with SEP, SEPEs, States, School Councils, Parents’ 
Associations and municipalities, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate educational, financial, environmental, technical and administrative standards and 
practices, as well as in accordance with the Operational Manual and the monitoring indicators set 
forth in the Implementation Letter. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Borrower shall cause 
CONAFE to maintain or cause to be maintained, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, an 
annually adjustable data base of regionalized reference prices to serve as a reference for Project 
procurement costing in those cases where direct contracting is allowed for goods. 
 
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall not use Loan proceeds to finance student supplies, 
teachers’ incentives or any other non-incremental recurrent costs as already financed by the Bank 
pursuant to Loan 3407-ME, Loan 3722-ME or Loan 4333-ME. 
 
Section 3.04. 
(a) Without prejudice to the provisions related to Project implementation 
set forth in this Agreement including, but not limited to, Section 3.01, the Borrower shall cause 
CONAFE to issue and carry out the Project in accordance with an operational manual satisfactory 
to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (i) special provisions to address the needs of 
indigenous peoples, as provided for in Section 3.09 of this Agreement; (ii) the norms of operation 
of the fund described under Part B.5 of the Project, including the criteria to be used by CONAFE 
in the selection of the projects presented by the States and monitoring and evaluation 
arrangements; (iii) specific prohibition of construction of new schools, application of simple 
environmental design specifications for the rehabilitation of existing schools, and environmental 
guidelines for construction activities (e.g. materials procurement to avoid asbestos and lead paint, 
avoid use of scarce timber sources to be minimized, proper solid and liquid waste disposal 
practices to be applied); (iv) the model form for Participation Agreements; (v) the model forms 
for the agreements to be entered into between CONAFE and the relevant State, municipality, 
School Council or Parents’ Association, for the execution of Parts A.1; and (vi) the model forms for 
the agreements to be entered into between CONAFE and the relevant School Council or Parents’ 
Association for the execution of Part A.4 of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall not amend the Operational Manual without the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
(c) 
In case of discrepancy between the provisions of the Operational Manual and those 
of this Agreement, the provisions set forth in this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
(d) 
With regard to Part B.5 of the Project, and notwithstanding the provisions set 
forth in paragraph (a) (ii) above, the Borrower shall cause CONAFE to implement said part of the 
Project in accordance with CONAFE’s January 22, 2002 letter to the Bank and, in addition: (a) 
Part B.5 of the Project shall not involve financing of civil works or operating cost expenditures; 
and (b) Part B.5 of the Project shall only involve financing of activities from among the eligible 
Page  10
10
list set forth in the above-cited letter, which are contemplated in a State Plan, which plan is in 
effect at the time of said financing.   
 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to enter into a separate Participation 
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the States, whereby: 
 
(a)  
CONAFE shall provide or cause to be provided, in a timely manner as needed, 
the funds, goods and/or services required for implementing the Project within each State, 
including: (i) the staffing of the relevant UCE throughout the course of Project implementation, 
with personnel in numbers and with experience and qualifications sufficient to carry out the 
coordination of activities between CONAFE and each State; and (ii) the provision of funds 
required by States, municipalities and School Councils, Parents Associations for Parts A.1 and 
A.4 of the Project; 
 
(b)  
the State shall:  
 
(i) 
carry out, or assist CONAFE in carrying out, the Project within such 
State as detailed in the applicable annual State Plans; 
 
(ii) 
assist CONAFE to allow full compliance with the obligations set forth in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement;  
 
(iii) 
participate in each of the annual reviews referred to in Section 3.10 of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(iv) 
abide by all applicable Project provisions laid out in this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through CONAFE shall: 
 
(a) 
coordinate Project implementation through the UPC, such UPC to be staffed 
throughout the course of Project implementation with personnel in sufficient numbers and with 
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
(b) 
with the collaboration of the relevant UCE, maintain records and separate 
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the funds and other 
resources it (and/or any State, municipality, Parents’ Association or School Council therein) has 
received, allocated and/or spent in connection with the Project; 
 
(c) 
carry out, and/or cause any State, municipality, Parents Association or School 
Council therein to carry out, procurement (with funds received for Parts A.1 and A.4 of the 
Project) solely in accordance with the relevant provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
 
(d) 
cooperate fully with NAFIN so as to allow NAFIN to comply with NAFIN’s 
obligations referred to in this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to carry out Part A of the Project in 
accordance with the relevant State Plans prepared by each State, which plans shall be satisfactory 
to CONAFE and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
Page  11
11
(b) 
Public schools of a given level (such as primary or lower secondary) in a State 
shall be covered by Part A of the Project in accordance with the targeting criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual. 
 
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to cause the relevant State, 
municipality and/or School Council and Parents’ Associations, and under technical supervision 
by the relevant SEPE, to carry out all works and furnishing under Part A.1 and A.4 (a) of the 
Project (which works and furnishing shall not cost more than $350,000 equivalent per contract or 
per bid package) in accordance with technical criteria and general guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to enter into agreements – in accordance with 
the model set forth in the Operational Manual - with States, municipalities, School Councils or 
Parents’ Associations, for the execution of Part A.1 and A.4 of the Project.   
 
(c) 
In order for a School Council or Parents’ Association to participate in the 
carrying out of Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project: (i) the School Council or Parents’ Association 
shall have been established and registered with separate legal personality of its own; (ii) the 
School Council’s or Parent Association’s existence, registration and legal personality shall be 
maintained throughout the course of its participation in the Project; and (iii) the School Council 
or Parents’ Association shall have entered into, and be in compliance with, an agreement with the 
relevant State whereby, in exchange for deposits by the State of non-Loan proceeds (obtained 
from CONAFE) in a bank or other account controlled by the School Council or the Parents’ 
Association, said School Council or Parents’ Association agrees to use such proceeds solely for 
purposes of Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project, to abide by the relevant terms of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and to allow audits and revision of records by, or on behalf of, CONAFE and the 
relevant State of the use of such proceeds. 
 
Section 3.09. With regard to Project components which affect indigenous communities, 
the Borrower, through CONAFE, shall ensure that such communities, through School Councils, 
Parents’ Associations or otherwise, participate systematically in the implementation, monitoring 
and evaluation of said parts of the Project.  Such monitoring and evaluation shall include 
beneficiary assessments, and the Borrower shall cause the results of such monitoring and 
evaluation to be made publicly available in a timely manner once such results are generated. 
 
Section 3.10. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without limitation 
of the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause CONAFE 
to, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, furnish to the Bank on October 31, 2002 and October 31, 
2003 an annual progress report on the implementation of the Project (based on the indicators set 
forth in the Implementation Letter) as well as proposed State Plans for the immediately 
subsequent fiscal year. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower shall participate, and shall cause CONAFE, each State and NAFIN 
to participate, in annual reviews of Project implementation to be held in conjunction with the 
Bank and the Borrower on November 30, 2002 and November 30, 2003 or any subsequent date as 
may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.  Each such review shall, based inter alia 
on the reports and proposed State Plans referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section: 
 
(i) 
examine the status of Project implementation; 
 
(ii) 
examine the status of implementation of the Program; and 
Page  12
12
(iii) 
result in the: (A) finalization of definitive State Plans for the immediately 
subsequent fiscal year; and (B) preparation by CONAFE of an annual 
action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, consolidating all State Plans and 
including CONAFE’s plan for those Parts of the Project not covered by 
the State Plans, which action plan the Borrower shall cause to be carried 
out during the immediately subsequent fiscal year. 
 
Section 3.11. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower, through CONAFE, shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on 
said plan. 
 
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to ensure that each Participation 
Agreement be duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered by, CONAFE and each 
State and be legally binding upon CONAFE and each State in accordance with the relevant 
Participation Agreement’s terms. 
 
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall - through SHCP- enter into an agreement with NAFIN 
and CONAFE, satisfactory to the Bank, for the execution of the Project. 
 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall cause NAFIN to maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause NAFIN to : 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
generally accepted auditing standards and procedures consistently 
applied, by independent and qualified auditors; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of such year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records and 
Page  13
13
accounts and a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause CONAFE to: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(e)  
The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section 
for each fiscal year audited (including, specifically, an audit - satisfactory 
to the Bank - of the works executed pursuant to Part C.3.(a) of Schedule 
3
to this Agreement), in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards and procedures consistently applied, by independent and 
qualified auditors; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of such year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records and 
accounts and a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
Page  14
14
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
 
and accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02.  
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Article III (including Section 3.10) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause NAFIN 
to prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank and cause NAFIN to furnish to 
the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project,  both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the planned 
and actual uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between 
actual
 
and planned implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end 
of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; 
thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent 
calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been issued by CONAFE and put into effect; 
 
(b) 
technical criteria and general guidelines (satisfactory to the Bank) for civil work 
contracts to be used under Parts A.1 of the Project have been adopted by CONAFE; and  
 
(c) 
the agreement between the Borrower, NAFIN and CONAFE referred to in Section 
3.13 of this Agreement shall have been entered into. 
 
Section 5.02. The date December 30, 2002, is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Page  15
15
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The 
Titular de la Unidad
 
de
 
Crédito
 
Público
 of the Borrower’s  SHCP is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions: 
 
Page  16
16
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
 
 
Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
  248423 (MCI) 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
    64145 (MCI)  
 
Facsimile: (202) 477-6391 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Patio Central 
 
3er piso, oficina 3010 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Telex: 
 
1777313-SHOCME 
 
Page  17
17
SCHEDULE 1  
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works (except as covered 
74,360,000 
75%  
 
by Category (4) below) 
 
(2) 
Goods (except as covered 
43,300,000  
75% 
 
by Category (4)  and (5)  
 below) 
 
 
(3) Consultants' 
services 
92,420,000 
75% 
 
and Training (except as 
 
covered by Categories (4) 
 
and (6) below, including  
 
incentives  to technical  
 pedagogic 
assistants) 
 
(4) School 
Grants 
63,130,000 
84% 
 
under Part A.4 of 
 
the Project  
 
(5) Student 
Supplies 
9,280,000 
25% 
 
(6) Teacher 
incentives 
3,810,000 
10% 
 
(7) Incremental 
Operational 
 
4,700,000 
10% 
 Costs 
 
(8) 
Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and  
 
Section 2.09 (d) of 
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
this Agreement 
Page  18
18
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(9) 
Front-end Fee 
3,000,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(10) Unallocated 
 
6,000,000 
 
__________ 
 TOTAL 
300,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
“Training” means the reasonable costs related to the carrying out of workshops, 
seminars and other pedagogic events under the Project (other than for school children) including 
equipment and facility rental, printed materials, travel and per diems (the latter two when not 
covered under Incremental Operating Costs);  
 
(b) 
“Student Supplies” means the reasonable cost of students basic consumable items 
such as pens, pencils, notepads, erasers or rulers;  
 
(c) 
“Teacher Incentives” means the reasonable cost of performance incentives to 
primary education teachers referred to in Part A (c) of the Project; and 
 
(d) 
“Incremental Operational Costs” means reasonable costs under the Project for 
salaries of temporary staff, office supplies and utilities, office and equipment rental, and travel 
and per diem costs (not covered under Training) that would have not been incurred absent the 
Project. 
 
3.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed eighty million dollars ($80,000,000), may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior  to the 
date of this Agreement (September 30, 2002) but after November 1, 2001. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts costing less than 
$350,000 equivalent each; (b) goods (including Student Supplies) under contracts costing less 
than $500,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first three contracts awarded under Part 
C.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (c) consulting services provided by firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) consulting services provided by individuals under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (e) Training; (f) School Grants; (g) Pilot 
School Grants; (h) Teacher Incentives; and (i) Incremental Operational Costs; all of these, under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  19
19
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) consolidate and expand to all States of the 
Borrower quality improvements in public initial education and Basic Education; (b) consolidate 
the organization and management of public initial education and Basic Education, and integrate 
within said education levels the operation of the Borrower’s compensatory education program; (c) 
implement a fund to support innovative education projects in the States; and (d) continue 
strengthening the States’ institutional capacity to plan, program and evaluate the delivery of basic 
education services. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part A
:
Quality improvements in public initial education and Basic Education
1. 
(a) 
Construction and furnishing of new classrooms within, and ancillary education 
facilities (including laboratories, workshops, sanitary installations, supervision offices and 
warehouses) to, existing Project Public Schools, and rehabilitation and furnishing of existing 
Project Public School facilities, to meet minimum operating standards and the expanding 
enrollment in Basic Education. 
 
(b) 
Rehabilitation, refurbishing and provision of equipment for teacher training 
centers to facilitate in-service training of teachers. 
2. 
(a) 
Provision to parents of didactic materials to be used in initial education (i.e., 
education of children up to 4 yeas of age), as well as provision of such materials to trainers who 
teach such parents how to carry out initial education activities.  
 
(b) 
Provision to Project Public Schools of teaching and learning materials (including 
learning materials for teacher training centers), and student supplies.  
 
(c) 
Provision to Project Public Schools, of computer equipment and software to be 
used in the Borrower’s 
Telesecundaria 
distance learning program, as long as such computer 
equipment and software has not been provided to any such Project Public School under the 
projects supported by Loan 3722-ME or Loan 4333-ME. 
3. 
(a) 
Training of trainers referred to in Part 2 (a) above, and training of school 
technical pedagogic assistants, in new pedagogic methods aimed at improving the quality of 
Basic Education in Project Public Schools.   
(b) 
Provision of incentives to technical pedagogic assistants to cover travel and 
subsistence expenses while they provide training and support to teachers who work in Project 
Public Schools that offer primary education.  
Page  20
20
(c) 
Provision of performance incentives to primary education teachers working at 
Project Public Schools, to motivate their full attendance and enhance their teaching performance. 
4. 
Strengthening of Project Public School management through: (a) the provision of grants 
to Parent
s’ Associations for school repairs and rehabilitation, minor infrastructure improvements, 
and related school management activities; (b) the provision of grants for pilot projects (to be 
financed with counterpart funds) to Parents’ Associations for school refurbishing and 
maintenance, minor infrastructure improvements, related school management activities and 
student supplies; and (c) the provision of financial management training to Parents’ Associations 
to facilitate their administration of the grants mentioned under (a) and (b) above
.
5. 
Strengthening of supervision of teachers in Project Public Schools through the provision 
of 
per diems
 to supervisors and sector chiefs that have not received 
per diems 
under the project 
supported by Loan 4333-ME to increase the number and depth of supervisory visits to individual 
Project Public Schools that offer primary education. 
Part B
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to: (a) expand the Borrower’s nationwide 
database for primary and lower-secondary education, through periodic testing of students 
benefiting from the Project and from the project financed under Loan 4333-ME; (b) identify the 
characteristics of the supply and demand for education at the pre-school, primary and lower-
secondary levels; and (c) disseminate information on the learning achievements of the students 
targeted by the Project. 
2. 
Consolidation of the Borrower’s nationwide school mapping system through: (a) further 
development of the Borrower’s geographic and cartographic platform; (b) validation of the SEP-
INEGI (
Instituto Nacional de Estadística, Geografía e Informática
,
the Borrower’s National 
Institute of Statistics, Geography and Informatics) catalog of population settlements; (c) updating 
of information on all States using satellite images; (d) improvements in the use of information for 
planning purposes at the federal and State level; (e) integration of a digital topographic model in 
the Borrower’s educational cartography; (f) expansion of the Borrower’s national education 
database by including architectural information on schools; (g) introduction of appropriate 
software to link topographic information to the Borrower’s education planning process; and (h) 
training of officials in each State to operate and further develop the Borrower’s school mapping 
system. 
3. 
Carrying out the following studies: (a) development of a database to evaluate the impact 
of the initial education program; (b) evaluation of the success of Part A.3 of the Project; and (c) 
diagnosis of problems affecting public basic education schools in marginalized sectors within 
major urban areas, aimed at identifying compensatory interventions appropriate to such city. 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance to the States to: (a) develop the organization and 
operation of basic education services and to implement programs defined by the SEP; and (b) 
support State initiatives to improve effectiveness in the design and implementation of basic 
education policies defined by the SEP, provide for their continual evaluation, ensure the efficient 
and transparent use of public funds, and promote the integration of basic education levels in terms 
of planning, supervision and service delivery. 
Page  21
21
5. 
Provision of technical assistance and training through a 
Fondo de 
Innovación de 
Educación Básica
 (Basic Education Innovation Fund) to support State initiatives to improve the 
quality of basic education and to adapt education programs to the needs of each State. 
6. 
(a) 
Nationwide integration of compensatory education programs; (b) monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project; (c) strengthening of State Project administration units through training 
in planning, programming, procurement, monitoring and reporting; and (d) provision of technical 
assistance and administrative support for Project management including payment of salaries and 
benefits for incremental administrative personnel at the federal and State level, travel expenses 
for officials in charge of Project administration, office equipment and materials, rent and utilities. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003. 
Page  22
22
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
 
Beginning September 15, 2007 
 
through March 15, 2017 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 
for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which 
shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling 
on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  withdrawal. 
Page  23
23
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply 
to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said Conversion 
by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  24
24
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each and contracts for works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $10,000,000 or more. 
 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(c) Notification 
and 
Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract shall be advertised in the Borrower’s public 
electronic advertising and bidding system (
COMPRANET
). 
 
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more 
shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 
2.8 of the Guidelines. 
Page  25
25
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
Optical reading test forms (goods) estimated to cost up to $2,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, which the Bank agrees 
can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $20,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $11,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate 
amount of $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. Community 
Participation
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $50,000,000 equivalent required to rehabilitate and expand schools under 
Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank, which procedures may include, inter alia, procurement under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The contract shall be made to 
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $2,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $10,000,000 equivalent required for school management and rehabilitation 
activities under Part A.4 of the Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank, which procedures may include direct contracting if contract prices are 
consistent with the regionalized reference prices determined by the Borrower pursuant to Section 
3.02 (b) of this Agreement.  
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Page  26
26
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved 
by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works procured pursuant to Part 
B
above; (ii) each contract for optical reading test forms (goods) procured pursuant to Part C.1 
above; (iii) each contract for works estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more procured 
pursuant to Section C.2 above; and (iv) the first three contracts for goods procured pursuant to 
Section C.2 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first three contracts for works to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in Part C.4 above, the following procedures shall apply. 
 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;  
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  27
27
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule. 
 
2. 
A specific procurement notice shall be published in 
United Nations Development 
Business 
to obtain expressions of interest for contracts for consulting services estimated to cost 
more than $200,000 equivalent.
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short list of 
consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services of a standard or routine nature for training and seminars
 
under Parts A.3, B.1, 
B.2, B.4, and B.5
 
of
the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and 
up to an aggregate of $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Page  28
28
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  estimated 
to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  29
29
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $30,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3
(a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $10,000,000 until the aggregate amount 
of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal or exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to para-
graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
Page  30
30
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be. 
Page  31
31
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
Page  32
32
WB77786 
M:\MEXICO\Amendments\7108-ME\7108-2nd Amendment.doc 
January 26, 2004 11:07 AM
 
