              Document of
          The World Bank




                                        Report No: 28551

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
   (IDA-27930 COFN-04250 PPFI-P9280)

                ON A

               CREDIT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR15.7 MILLION

               TO THE

         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                FOR A

   VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT




              June 2, 2004

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 2004)

                          Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
                                 YER 1 = US$ 0.0056
                                  US$ 1 = YER 178

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1     December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AET        Adult Education and Training
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
EU         European Union
GAVTT       General Authority for Vocational and Technical Training
GTZ        German Agency for Technical Cooperation
ILO        International Labour Organization
LCVT        Local Council for Vocational Training
MIS         Management Information System
MOE         Ministry of Education
MSSL        Ministry of Social Security, Social Services and Labor
MTEVT       Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training
OPEC        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SDF          Skills Development Fund
TDC          Training Development Center
VT           Vocational Training
VTC          Vocational Training Center

                         Vice President:     Christiaan J. Poortman
                       Country Director      Mahmood A. Ayub
         Sector Manager/Sector Director      Regina Maria Bendokat/Michal Rutkowski
                     Task Team Leader        Yasser El-Gammal

                                  YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF
                             Yemen VOCATIONAL TRAINING


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P005912                                                  Project Name: Yemen VOCATIONAL TRAINING
Team Leader: Yasser El-Gammal                                        TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 8, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Yemen VOCATIONAL TRAINING                                L/C/TF Number: IDA-27930;
                                                                                                     COFN-04250;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P9280
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Vocational training (75%); Central government administration
                            (15%); Adult literacy/non-formal education (10%)
                  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P); Social risk reduction (P);
                            Education for all (P); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/06/1993                                     Effective: 04/07/1996                08/07/1996
     Appraisal: 03/15/1995                                         MTR: 11/30/1999                  06/30/2000
      Approval: 12/12/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Yemen/MINISTRY OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION &
                                           VOCATIONAL TRAINING
                      Other Partners:      OPEC, European Union

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Caio Koch-Weser
Country Director:               Mahmood A. Ayub                                Inder Sud
Sector Manager:                 Regina Maria Bendokat
Team Leader at ICR:             Yasser El-Gammal                               Yogendra Saran
ICR Primary Author:             Luis Guillermo Hakim


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project aimed to strengthen Yemen's capacity to train skilled labor in line with current and emerging
demand in the economy. More specifically, the project sought to (i) strengthen the management of the
vocational training (VT) system by providing a major role to the private sector in policy-making,
management, and financing of the VT system; (ii) improve the quality and relevance of VT through the
enhancement of programs in existing centers and selective expansion of two pilot centers; and (iii) reorient
adult education and training (AET) programs for women through community participation.

These objectives were in accordance with the government's policy and IDA's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) at the time of appraisal. IDA's lending strategy supported government plans to establish a modern
education and training system, including (i) the improvement of learning achievements in primary and
secondary schools, and increasing access for girls, (ii) the development of more effective VT programs to
upgrade the skill profile of the labor force, and (iii) making higher education more responsive to labor
market needs. IDA had already supported 15 education projects, including a Technical Training Project in
1985. In late 1993, the government requested IDA assistance for a major overhaul of the country's VT
system.

Assessment. The country had substantial unemployment accompanied by a deficit of vocational skills
integral to its economic development plans; therefore, the general project objectives were the right ones.
The particulars of the comprehensive package of policy changes and investments in hardware and software
should have been more realistic. For example, the objectives set an ambitious agenda for reform of the VT
system. Among the benefits the project would yield were "major changes in policy and governance
structure", which would result in "shared responsibility between government and employers" (SAR p.14).
This was formulated as if at the end of the project these major policy and institutional changes would be
accomplished. It would have been more realistic to formulate the project objectives as the beginning of a
reform process that would have, upon project completion, laid the framework for further systemic reform.
Even in countries with a larger institutional capacity than Yemen, institutional reform, such as the one
undertaken by the project, can take many years of continuous commitment.

3.2 Revised Objective:
From the start, the project was affected by slow and partial implementation due to capacity problems (see
Section 4.1) and problems associated with cofinancing (see Section 5.4). Establishing an operational PIU
was protracted and getting the project to "take off" required the better part of two years. In addition, agreed
OPEC funding of VT centers (VTCs) started late, anticipated European Union (EU) funding only started
recently, and other cofinancing did not materialize. It was therefore agreed, following the mid-term review
in 2000, to focus on two revised objectives: (i) strengthening policy-making, management, and financing of
the VT system by providing a major role to the private sector; and (ii) improving the quality and relevance
of VT programs through the enhancement of existing programs and the selective expansion of new
programs. The third objective "reorienting adult education and training programs for women through
community participation" was dropped. The amendment was approved by IDA's Board of Executive
Directors in October 2000. Because agreement on EU funding slipped, the government and IDA
subsequently agreed to drop the subcomponent "Selective Expansion of Two Pilot Centers" under the
second objective. This was later taken up by the EU.

Assessment. A revision of the objectives was justified because not all the financing envisaged at the project
appraisal materialized. The table below shows the detailed financing status of the project:

                  Appraisal Estimate      Actual



                                                     - 2 -

                         (US$)              (US$)
 IDA                     24.30             20.60*
 OPEC                    10.00              11.00
 Government               9.50               4.55
 EU                       8.00               0.00
 Japanese Govt            3.29               0.00
 Dutch Govt               4.70               0.00
 Total                   59.79              36.15
The IDA Credit amount in US Dollars was reduced by US$3.6 million because of a change in the SDR exchange
rate.

As the main reason for revising the objectives was the unavailability of the essential cofinancing, which
was an unforeseeable external factor outside the government's control and required change in project
objectives, rating of the project's development outcome is based on the revised objectives. The background
of the donor situation is the following:

l The Dutch government which was to finance the third component changed its priorities from
     community based adult education to girls basic education. In regards to community development, they
     supported the Social Fund.
l EU funding was supposed to finance "selective expansion of two pilot centers". This funding slipped.
     The government and IDA subsequently agreed to drop this subcomponent under the second objective.
     However, this was later taken up by the EU, whose funding came in but late in the project life.
     Construction activities began on this only in 2004. The objectives under this sub-component are likely
     to be achieved by the end of the EU project closing in December 2005.

l The Japanese grant which was to finance a high-tech center was also dropped because Japanese
     assistance to Yemen was reduced following Yemen's debt forgiveness from Japan, and the grant to
     finance this activity never materialized.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three main components, to be financed with an SDR 15.7 million (US$24.3 million) IDA
Credit, US$26.0 million from OPEC, the EU, and the Dutch and Japanese governments, and US$9.5
million in government counterpart funding for a total cost of US$59.8 million.

Component 1. Management and Financing of VT. Cost US$2.7 million (excluding contingencies).
1.1. VT Management
This subcomponent would provide technical assistance to the General Authority for Vocational and
Technical Training (GAVTT) to establish a system for sector planning, policy-making, and organizational
development. It also would enlarge the scope of the MIS being developed under separate German
government (GTZ) assistance, with the provision of hardware, software, and training materials.

1.2. VT Financing
This subcomponent would support the creation of the Skills Development Fund (SDF). It would provide
specialist services and training to staff responsible for operating the SDF, as well as equipment, furniture,
and software necessary to make the SDF operational.

Component 2. Quality Improvement. Cost US$42.3 million (excluding contingencies).
This component would assist to improve the quality and relevance of pre-employment training offered by
VTCs and to ensure sustained in-service training of the existing work force through the following
subcomponents:




                                                     - 3 -

2.1     Strengthening institutional capacity for curricula development
2.2     Developing a system of in-service training of trainers
2.3     Developing a system of continuing education for employees of business and industry,
        as well as VTC instructors and graduates
2.4     Strengthening selected VTCs
2.5     Strengthening programs for the physically handicapped
2.6     Selective expansion through establishment of two pilot VTCs.

Component 3. Adult Education and Training for Females. Cost US$6.0 million (excluding
contingencies).
This component would seek to improve community ownership of adult education and training (AET)
programs through (i) Institutional Development, including support for new curricula, training of
instructors, and workshops on participatory approaches, and (ii) an AET Project Funding Facility for the
financing of infrastructure rehabilitation, equipment, and instructional materials.

This project would also support the establishment and operation of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at
an estimated cost of US$0.5 million. The PIU would be located in the GAVTT.

Assessment. In hindsight, this package of components proved to be too complex, partly a matter of
organization but also of approach. First, the components were split among two ministries. The first two
components fell under the Ministry of Social Security, Social Services and Labor (MSSL); the third
component was assigned to the Ministry of Education (MOE). Second, project composition did not reflect
the well-recognized limitations of the country's implementation capacity. Third, focus of the skills training
program was disproportionate to Yemen's needs. Agriculture, commerce, and trade predominate skill needs,
yet most of the VTC activities focused on industry. Fourth, and perhaps most important, none of the
components paid sufficient attention to ensuring private sector involvement in all policy and operational
matters.

3.4 Revised Components:
As explained in Section 3.2, the AET component was dropped in October 2000 because the cofinancing
from the Dutch government (about US$6 million) envisioned at appraisal was redirected to support girls
basic education and the Social Fund in other IDA projects. The proposal to establish two pilot VTCs also
was dropped (subcomponent 2.6), because EU cofinancing (about US$5 million) did not become available
until a very late stage of the project. The EU activities actively took off about two years ago under a
separate PIU. Its main activities are to establish two pilot VTCs (a women's VTC and an oil and gas
industry related VTC that would promote the "dual/cooperative" system of training with oil and gas
industries) as well as upgrading of the existing hotel and tourism VTC in Sana'a relating to the
"strengthening selected VTCs" sub-component of the project and technical assistance and training activities
relating to the curriculum development sub-component of the project (all under the second component of
the project). The objectives under EU cofinancing is likely to be met by the end of its closing in December
2005. The Japanese grant to finance an area high-tech center also was dropped because Japanese assistance
to Yemen was reduced following Yemen's debt forgiveness from Japan, and the grant (US$3.29 million) to
finance this activity never materialized.

Assessment. Although a revision of project composition was justified, activities aimed at ensuring the
software and quality aspects of the project outcome including involvement of the private sector in
management of VT system and improving quality and relevance of VT should have received greater
emphasis.




                                                     - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory based on (i) the appraisal team's underestimation of the weaknesses
of the implementing agencies and oversight of some important risks, like the difficulty of engaging the
private sector in the reform process; (ii) a complex project design that failed to identify concrete
mechanisms for giving the private sector a central role in the management of the VT system as stipulated
by the development objective; (iii) procurement packages for the first year not being developed before
effectiveness of the Credit; and (iv) lack of concrete assurances on the substantial cofinancing required,
particularly because relevant project components were to be solely funded from other sources.

The project did reflect the experience with earlier IDA-supported activities in education and training and
was in accordance with the government's priorities and CAS. Ongoing GTZ support for the VT sector also
positively influenced the project. This support covered areas like (i) management and financing of VT:
preparation of regulations and systems to motivate VT in the private sector, proposals to establish a
national training council, identifying and training relevant staff, and exploring inter-ministerial
coordination; and (ii) quality improvement: establishing a national system of job description and
classification of skills tests, introduction and activation of market-oriented training programs, establishment
of a labor market information system, development of guidelines and regulations for trade selection and
employment possibilities, and improving resources at the VTCs. The project was to have benefited from a
PPF for project preparation, but eventually only about US$700 was spent. Of note, various requirements
critically important project processing, such as readiness for implementation and agreement on monitoring
indicators, were not yet as strictly enforced as they are at present. Still, the appraisal team should have paid
more attention to PIU staffing and the lack of confirmed cofinancing at project start.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's overall performance is considered satisfactory ("marginally satisfactory" in OED
terminology). The general objective of the project was to strengthen Yemen's capacity to train skilled labor
in line with current and emerging demand in the economy. To achieve this, the project sought to: (i)
promote a major role of the private sector in the areas of policy-making, management, and financing of the
training system; and to (ii) enhance the quality and relevance of VT programs. These outcomes were
substantially achieved.

The third outcome, "adult education and training programs for women through community participation",
was dropped as a result of project restructuring in October 2000. The main reason for the cancellation was
essential cofinancing that was envisaged at the appraisal became unavailable. As mentioned in 3.2, the
Dutch government's priorities had changed from the community-based adult education to girls basic
education, and with regard to community development, they supported the Social Fund. Also, because the
agreement on EU funding slipped, the government and IDA subsequently agreed to drop the subcomponent
"selective expansion of two pilot centers" under the second objective. This was later taken up by the EU
with construction activities beginning only in 2004. However, the objectives under this sub-component is
likely to be achieved by end of its closing in December 2005. Furthermore, considerable delays hindered
the ensured cofinancing. The OPEC loan was signed in November 1996 but became effective/operational
only in May 1998. For the reasons above, the project's outcome rating is based on the revised objectives.

Despite the cancellation of the third component and considerable delays in cofinancing, the project has
played a vital role as a catalyzer of policy dialogue in Yemen. It has been successful in (i) initiating a
dialogue between the government and the private sector on sector reform, (ii) establishing a solid
foundation of programs, trainers, and curricula that has led the government into a more productive process



                                                        - 5 -

of program design and delivery, (iii) establishing the SDF to augment limited sector funding, and (iv)
helping the government to sustain its commitment to reform. The government now has endorsed a strategy
to make its VT system demand-driven and in accordance with the country's development needs.

Private sector engagement with the government has been stimulated, although an environment of mistrust
still exists and the private sector remains insufficiently involved in all aspects of VT policy and operations.
The project helped Yemen take a large step in enhancing the quality and relevance of its VT programs by
(i) building local capacity in curricula development and training of trainers, (ii) upgrading the infrastructure
and equipment of a selected number of VTCs, and (iii) developing training modules based on the modular
approach.

At the regional level, five Local Councils for VT (LCVTs) have been established, of which two are
operational and contributing to the training process in VTCs. At the central level, the establishment of the
National Council for VT (NCVT) has been less successful, and the NCVT is currently dormant. The Skills
Development Fund (SDF) was established and has been operational for the last eight years. Despite recent
progress, the envisioned role of prominence for the private sector in the SDF has not materialized while the
entity suffers structural problems related to its legal set-up, internal regulations, and incapacity to manage
its funds.

The project moved Yemen from a situation where no overall policy framework existed to one where a
specific framework has been adopted, with the capacity to develop training programs and to deliver
training. The situation before the project was characterized by (i) few training programs and almost no
curricula, (ii) those few training programs were outdated and varied in nature and approach depending on
the donor providing the equipment (i.e., Germany, China, or Algeria), and (iii) almost no local trainers. As
a result of the project, the situation is now characterized by (a) the adoption of an overall policy framework
used by the government, (b) the existence of local capacity to develop curricula and train trainers, and (c) a
large number of modules developed for the different specializations of the VTCs, modules which are mostly
consistent with the equipment infrastructure of those VTCs.

Gender. With the deletion of the AET component, the project had no longer had any activities specifically
aimed at the needs of female labor. Although the VTCs were open to both men and women, the project did
not target the needs of the sectors in which women are most involved, agriculture, commerce, services, and
trade. Rather, the needs of the industrial sector, predominantly male-oriented, were the aim of the project.
Consequently, the gender outcome was negligible.

To summarize: (1) the project's first objective, which accounted for about five percent of project financing
but was important for project outcome, experienced shortcomings related to project formulation at
appraisal; (2) the second objective was substantially achieved and did have a positive impact on the VT
sector.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Following the 2000 revision, overall output of the project's two main components was satisfactory
("marginally satisfactory" in OED terms).

Component 1. Management and Financing of Vocational Training.
 (a) Governance Structure. Achievement of this subcomponent is rated unsatisfactory. This activity sought
to establish formal linkages with the private sector to promote its participation in the management of the
training system. It also sought to decentralize VTC governance to LCVTs to promote flexibility,
institutional autonomy, and accountability. As a result, courses and programs offered by VTCs at the end



                                                      - 6 -

of the project would be demand-driven, while the central authority (initially GAVTT, though replaced in
2001 by the Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training (MTEVT)) would focus on policy
formulation, institutional support, organizational management, and monitoring of national standards, rather
than on routine administration of VTCs. This would be facilitated by technical assistance to the
GAVTT/MTEVT to develop its organizational structure and to strengthen the management capacity of
VTCs. This was partially achieved. The MTEVT issued a decree giving VTCs more flexibility and
autonomy. Most senior officials completed study tours, as well as individual training courses, to strengthen
their skills in areas such as curricula development, educational materials, trainee evaluation, procurement,
human and financial resource management, and MIS. The main improvements took place in curricula
development and management of VTCs.

Upon project completion, the role of the private sector in the management of the training system was still
insufficient. Five LCVTs were established and two are very active, though short of solid links with the
private sector. Training courses and programs continue to be supply-driven, while the central authority --
MTEVT -- remains overly engaged in the routine administration of VTCs.

The project initiated the establishment of an information system in the MTEVT and the 30 VTCs to
monitor information related to students, classes, testing personnel, payroll, inventory, and budgets and to
manage local labor market data for program planning purposes. This system never became fully
operational, as the software is still being worked on. The training system has been persistently constrained
by the lack of real-time operational information, while flexibility and accountability at the local level
largely have not been addressed.

(b) Skills Development Fund (SDF). Achievement of this subcomponent is rated marginally satisfactory.
The SDF was conceived essentially as a mechanism to diversify sources of funding, beyond and above
limited government allocations for training, and was indeed established by the government with private
sector participation (i.e., the Chairman is from the private sector). Its resources come from: (i) a one
percent training levy to be paid by all employers employing 10 people and over; and (ii) the proceeds of the
work permit fees to be paid yearly by each non-Yemeni employee (YR 5,000 per year). The SDF had a
slow start and initially focused on collecting the training levies, which was spent mainly on operating costs
(37 percent of total SDF spending in 2002, but down to 13 percent in 2003). In more recent years, the
focus has shifted to assessing training needs and arranging for demand-driven training. For example, during
the first nine months of 2003, there were 4,310 participants in 192 training programs for 376 private and
public enterprises. This was handled with the help of 78 trainers (organizations and individuals). Table 1
shows the evolution of SDF income and expenditures on training and operating costs.

Table 1. SDF Income and Expenditures in YR million in 2000-2003
                                  2000                  2001                 2002                 2003
 Income:
 (a) Work permit                 24                     23                  26                    35
fees
 (b) Training levies             52                     58                  70                   250
 (c) Interest on                 21                     10                  30                    38
reserves
 (d) Government                                                                                  205
contributions
 Total income                    97                     91                  126                  528




                                                      - 7 -

 Expenditures:
 (a) Funding of                                                                                  35*
VTCs
 (b) Funding of                   4                      7                  38                   272
private/public
enterprise training
 (c) Operating                   15                    16                   23                    40
expenditures
 Total expenditures              19                    23                   61                   312
* Allocated but not spent.
Source: SDF MIS

Despite considerable progress, the SDF has yet to fully meet its objectives. It has succeeded in diversifying
the sources of funding for the VT sector, though not efficiently, but it has not cultivated the confidence of
the private sector, which continues to view the SDF mainly as a source of taxation. Various issues have
hindered the SDF from assuming its rightful role, both of a legal and an operational nature. For example,
(i) the SDF governing law should be changed to enable it to function in its role of encouraging private
sector-led training, (ii) SDF services should be extended to firms with less than 10 employees, (iii) SDF
financing of VTCs should be performance-linked, not automatic, and (iv) VTCs should be able to raise
funds, charge fees for services, and retain the bulk of their revenues.

Some of these issues are expected to be addressed in a follow-up project, being proposed for consideration
by the Board of Executive Directors in June 2005.

Component 2. Quality Improvement.
(a) Institutional Capacity for Curricula Development, Trainee Assessment, and Instructional Material
Development. The output of this subcomponent is rated satisfactory. The project succeeded in establishing
a core technical capacity in MTEVT for curricula development, trainee assessment, and instructional
material development. For example, in the case of curricula development, one observes a transformation
from "study plans" with no connection to the needs of the labor market to new programs developed
following the competency-based approach, with much better integration with the practical needs of
business. Tracer studies of graduates proved particularly useful. Nevertheless, these initiatives remain
small in scope and need to be expanded. The subcomponent helped develop more than 2,500 modules and
helped train 25 resource persons overseas and 250 technical staff through local workshops in curricula
development, thus contributing significantly to the capacity of MTEVT.

(b) Developing a System of In-Service Training for Trainers. The output of this subcomponent is rated
satisfactory. Training Development Centers (TDC) were created in VTCs in Aden, Sana'a, and Taiz.
Eighteen trainers were trained abroad and are now providing training services for local trainers. An
estimated 140 local trainers have benefited from this program.

(c) Developing a System of Continuing Education. The output of this subcomponent is rated marginally
satisfactory. The project aimed at creating continuing education programs in each VTC to address the
needs in their respective geographical areas. A total of 45 senior staff from VTCs received training abroad
and locally. At present, all VTCs have continuing education programs that are reasonably demand-driven.

(d) Strengthening Selected Vocational Training Centers. The output of this subcomponent is rated
satisfactory. The civil works were mainly financed by OPEC and successfully rehabilitated infrastructure



                                                     - 8 -

for 20 VTCs (the SAR had projected 15 VTCs) in seven governorates (Sana'a, Aden, Taiz, Hadramout,
Abyan, Lahj, and Hodeidah) providing an additional 1,800 training posts. The project provided various
vocational training equipment and workshop tools, which were mainly financed by IDA, to 57 VTCs and
VTIs throughout 12 governorates (Sana'a, Aden, Hodeidah, Taiz, Hadramout, Dhamar, Hajja, Ibb, Abyan,
Mareeb, Lahj, and Amran) that added 56 new workshops and 1,120 training posts. Not only new training
programs have been created through updated equipment, supplies, and trainings in new technologies, the
supported VTCs and VTIs were provided with the equipment and tools more relevant to existing curricula
and modules as well as local job market's need. In addition, as mentioned under (b), three TDCs were
established.

(e) Rehabilitation of the Physically Handicapped through Vocational Training. The output of this
subcomponent is rated satisfactory. Six training centers for the handicapped received assistance for the
procurement of equipment, materials, and the rehabilitation of buildings. Technical assistance was also
provided for training of trainers, orientation workshops for staff, and the preparation of a survey of training
centers in the sector. The Project financed the orthopedics workshop building and equipment and supplies
to the Almansourah Aden Handicapped Center. This workshop is being managed and operated by the
handicapped; it is used for training as well as production purposes. A new workshop for Fukom Aden
Center was constructed and supplied with machinery that produces fishing nets for handicapped persons to
make and sell to the local market. This would enable the center to be an income-generating center and to
train women in the local vicinity.       The project also financed a new wood workshop at the Thula
Handicapped Center. Taiz Handicapped Society has been provided with equipment and tools for the wood
workshop. The project rehabilitated part of Sana'a Special Needs Center and provided a 24-seat bus for
transportation. A new workshop was also provided to Sana'a Blind Women Society. In addition, an
orientation workshop on handicapped training for VTC technical deputy directors to understand and to
integrate handicapped training needs into the existing VTS was provided.

These activities were coordinated by the PIU with the help of a substantial technical assistance package and
an architectural and technical engineering package. The ILO Turin Center was contracted for the first and
an experienced international firm for the second. Both started in late 1997.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic justification of the project was based on an Internal Rate of Return (IRR) analysis, which
assumed a rate of unemployment of 10 percent for IRR calculations and yielded a 16 percent rate of return.
This exercise was not repeated at the conclusion of the project, since no data were available to calculate the
unemployment rate among graduates of VTCs. Still, the overall unemployment rate in 2000 had reached
11.5 percent and was even higher for the 15-24 age group, reaching 19-20 percent. According to the
sensitivity analysis presented in the SAR, a 20 percent unemployment rate among graduates would have
reduced the rate of return to around 13 percent. A higher unemployment rate would likely bring the rate of
return to under 10 percent.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is considered moderate. MTEVT and SDF have built
up a limited but increasing capacity to help develop and implement VT. The remaining issues for the
development of a sustainable, relevant, and effective training system are now well known to the
government. The main difficulties in moving forward have been lack of capacity in terms of information
generation, planning, and management of financial resources and lack of professional skills to design



                                                    - 9 -

appropriate development interventions. The appropriate capacity will only develop through sustained effort
on the part of the government, with the assistance of donors, over time. Some of these issues are supported
under the proposed follow-up project. Consistent political commitment on the part of the government to
pursue long-term reform of the system is commendable and expected to continue.

As mentioned above, the project design did not sufficiently stimulate a major role by the private sector.
Private construction contractors benefited from strict adherence to technical specifications for materials by
the supervising consultant firm, but private enterprises did not benefit enough from the project's training
investments.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Lack of cofinancing. Important donor cofinancing did not materialize as planned and the third outcome,
"adult education and training programs for women through community participation", had to be dropped.
Furthermore, considerable delays hindered the ensured cofinancing. The OPEC loan was signed in
November 1996 but became effective/operational only in May 1998.

Lack of security. In some of the regions, security concerns led to restrictions in travel and thus in
implementation of the physical components.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Commitment to Vocational Training (VT). Government policies consistently describe VT as a priority
focus for the country's development. MTEVT, too, has been supportive throughout its existence.

Lack of implementation capacity. The government should have done more to ensure the early and full
staffing of the PIU to solidify adherence to the project start date and timetable. Similarly, the government
should have been more responsive to frequent suggestions by IDA to strengthen SDF management.

Lack of project budget. Counterpart funding was always delayed. In addition, budgets prepared and
submitted by the PIU to GAVTT/MLVT were systematically reduced by more than half, thus very much
affecting the project's cash-flow.

Lack of desire to involve the private sector. The government should have ensured a much more
substantial role of the private sector in all aspects of VT policies and operations.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Lack of expertise. From project start, the PIU should have been operational. Knowledge of and experience
with Bank procedures and practices in disbursement and procurement should have been requisite to being
hired. So too, staff should have been able to operate the MIS, monitor project progress, and advise and act
on VT policy.

Lack of timely data. MTEVT's decision-making was hampered by a lack of real-time information
regarding the status of the system. An MIS is still urgently required.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost was US$36.15 million: IDA financed US$20.6 million (a change in the exchange rate
between the SDR and the US$ reduced the original amount of US$24.3 million by US$3.7 million); OPEC
US$11 million; and the government US$4.55 million. At appraisal, cofinancing was projected at US$26
million: Dutch and Japanese funding (expected around US$4.7 million and US$3.3 million respectively)


                                                      - 10 -

did not materialize and the EU funding (expected around US$8 million), being processed much later, is not
reflected in the data. Actual cofinancing (OPEC) amounted to US$11 million (as opposed to expected at
appraisal around US$10 million) or 30 percent of the total project cost. Government counterpart funding
was projected at US$9.5 million or 16 percent, but actuals were US$4.6 million or 13 percent.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability rating for this project is likely. The project originally established an ambitious set of
objectives and project components, which were inconsistent with the capacity of the government to
implement. As a result, the institutional and financial reforms envisioned by the SAR did not materialize.
Following the amendment to project composition in 2000, achievements in curricula development, training
for the handicapped, and upgrading of physical facilities contributed substantially to the transformation of
the existing supply-driven system described in the SAR. In addition, the government's commitment to
reform continues to be strong, constituting a solid incentive to pursue the project's original reform agenda.
Current work between the government, the EU, and IDA to provide a long-term framework for reform
clearly indicates the political willingness to devise needed changes in strategy.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Significant reform will be achieved only over a sustained period of time and in coordination with other
donors. The government and IDA thus agreed that follow-up support was needed, and a Second Vocational
Training Project is now being prepared. The project aims to support the following development objectives:
(i) enhancing the population's employment and/or income-generating opportunities by providing
employer-defined skill requirements in technical and vocational training programs; and (ii) enhancing the
effectiveness of policy formulation planning and management at MTVET through the development and
implementation of a TVET Management Information System and a viable financing system. As evident
from these objectives, the follow-up operation will be designed to build on the achievements of the present
project and support the government in continuing to pursue the reform agenda.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in preparing the project was unsatisfactory. Project identification and preparation were
conducted with ample participation by and consultation with government officials, private sector
representatives, and donor representatives. As project design started to take shape, the team identified two
central issues for the success of the project. First, it became apparent that the newly established General
Authority for Vocational Training (GAVTT) represented only the public sector and was not recognized by
the private sector as the overall authority for training. The key policy challenge was to give GAVTT the
necessary legitimacy by incorporating the private sector into its governance structure; however, this did not
happen, and at appraisal the IDA team simply designed a technical assistance package to improve the
technical capacity of GAVTT staff (exclusively civil servants) without pushing for a major inclusion of
private sector representatives. It was basically assumed that the private sector's response would be positive
and that their involvement would materialize. Second, as the creation of the Skills Development Fund
(SDF) started to be considered seriously by the authorities, the IDA team clearly noted that, for the SDF to
be successful, it would have to be "financed and managed by employers to support VT". During appraisal,
IDA retreated from this approach, and the SDF became a government institution with nominal private
sector representation on its Board. The SDF was conceived essentially as an additional source of funding
from the private sector to the public sector, without any activities to promote in-service training by
enterprises.



                                                      - 11 -

The IDA team should have avoided focusing project investments solely on industrial labor needs, since
agriculture, commerce, and trade are the predominant sectors. A large share of labor did not benefit directly
from the project, nor did women.

Finally, the implementation arrangements were quite deficient. Although Bank requirements for project
readiness at the time of appraisal were not as descriptive as they are at present, the IDA team should have
foreseen a delay of project start with the absence of contracting core PIU staff. The PIU staff eventually
was able to comply with procurement and financial management obligations, but it never was able to
cultivate an equivalent capacity to oversee the development objectives, such as involvement of the private
sector, decentralization of VTC management to the local level, and VT financing reform.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision was satisfactory. Supervision missions were adequately staffed and
frequent. Initially, the lack of specific project activities to involve the private sector in the governance of the
VT system limited the supervision efforts mainly to procurement, disbursement, and implementation issues.
Progress on governance issues was related to progress made by other donors active in the sector, without
formal linkages with the IDA-supported project. Without specific project activities, supervision missions
were powerless to enforce reforms in governance and were reduced to recommending that the government
conduct ad hoc activities (like workshops) to promote participation of the private sector. The mid-term
review in 2000 covered all of these issues and made some technical recommendations to address these as
well as recommending to cancel the adult education component and the special high-tech center
sub-component for which cofinancing never became available.

IDA initially rated the project consistently as satisfactory, both in implementation and in achievement of the
development objectives. The mission before the mid-term review rated the project unsatisfactory for
implementation but kept the satisfactory rating for the development objective. The next three supervision
reports retained the unsatisfactory rating for implementation, thereafer the rating reverted to satisfactory.
Despite the obvious shortcomings described in this report, the development objective remained satisfactory
throughout the life of the project, reflecting the government's adoption of policy to support implementation
of the reforms (like establishing the SDF, the national and local VT councils, and issuing decrees to grant
more independence to VTCs). The ambitions of reform agenda, in the end, surpassed the scope of the newly
created tools.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government's performance in preparing the project was unsatisfactory. The government collaborated
actively with IDA missions during project identification, preparation, and appraisal and facilitated the work
of the various working groups formed to work on the project design. However, it set an ambitious program
for reform without careful examination of its implementation capability. The existing documentation on
project preparation indicates that the government was clear on its objectives of quantitative expansion and
was willing to accommodate IDA's requirements for reform, but without a clear grasp of the scope of the
task ahead. The government's policy statement of March 22, 1995 proposed significant changes and
reforms, though much did not materialize.

7.5 Government implementation performance:




                                                        - 12 -

The government's performance during project implementation was also unsatisfactory. The government
was unable to present requests and proper documentation to secure cofinancing from the Dutch and
Japanese governments. As a result, the project had to be re-designed by dropping the third project
component and other project activities. Attention to matters related to the development objectives were
frequently not followed-up. For example, on each of the first three supervision missions, the IDA team
requested but never received a copy of the minutes of the first meeting of the National Council for VT
(NCVT). In addition, the NCTV remained largely inactive after its first meeting in 1995. Many project
targets were legally or physically attained, though many of the anticipated development outcomes failed to
materialize. And, despite the willingness of the authorities to implement the project, institutional and
staffing constraints limited the achievement of the agreed objectives.

Finally, counterpart funding was always delayed, and budgets prepared by the PIU (based on disbursement
forecasts) were systematically reduced by the budget authorities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PIU's performance was unsatisfactory ("marginally unsatisfactory"). Two primary issues negatively
affected project implementation: (i) delays in obtaining OPEC and EU funding; and (ii) the need to set up a
new PIU. At the outset of project implementation, documentation submitted to IDA for "no-objection" was
frequently incomplete and required follow-up. Even though the PIU's good record keeping should be
commended, the loss of time was irretrievable. Furthermore, a lack of English language skills hindered
communication with the Bank and was only rectified, though markedly, when the new director was hired. In
terms of overall preparedness, procurement and financial management were focal to the staff, with little
expertise in monitoring the achievement of development objectives. The PIU composed of 7 core staff paid
by the project and 17 support staff paid through the government payroll.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall government performance is rated unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Ensure Stakeholder Participation. Private sector participation in a major reform cannot be assumed to
come automatically. Concrete project activities have to be worked out to engage the private sector in the
governance and financing of the sector. This requires technical assistance packages for the private sector,
as well as incentives to promote its participation.

Focus on Implementation Capacity. An accurate diagnosis of VT sector issues needs to be reflected in
project design. Four major issues were identified before appraisal: weak sector management capacity, weak
financial sustainability of the sector, lack of quality and relevance, and poor access and equity. The project
failed to adequately address all four because it assumed that the government would have the capacity to
design and undertake such a comprehensive reform program on its own.

Set Priorities in Project Design. Related to the above, addressing a set of complex issues in a context of
weak implementation capacity requires a clear sequencing of reforms over time, rather than an attempt to
address all issues simultaneously. A ranking of issues according to priority should be agreed upon with the
government and other stakeholders, and actions needed to resolve these issues should be reflected in project
design. The project should focus on the major labor market needs, in the case of Yemen agriculture,
commerce, and trade skills.

Ensure Government Commitment. Although VT has been a priority focus for the country's development,



                                                      - 13 -

the government's overall lack of commitment weakened the level of achievement of the project objectives.
The government could have been more responsive: (i) to ensure implementation capacity of the PIU at the
beginning, (ii) to frequent suggestions by IDA to strengthen SDF management, (iii) to ensure counterpart
funding would be available without delays, and (iv) to play a much more substantial role to ensure private
sector involvement in all aspects of VT policies and operations.

Focus on Implementation Arrangements. Projects must be ensured the ability to "take off" from the start,
having an operational PIU staff experienced in procurement, disbursement, and monitoring and evaluation.
In this particular case, establishment of the PIU was protracted and project take off experienced a two-year
delay (the credit closing date only required a six-month extension, indicating an acceleration of
implementation toward project end).

Ensure Relevant Cofinancing. Funding of all relevant project components should be ensured at project
start. Project implementation suffered non-materialization of projected Dutch and Japanese funding and
delays in accessing OPEC and EU funding. The late start of OPEC-funded infrastructure investments
slowed, in turn, IDA funding of equipment, and important donor support aimed at the training of women
was cancelled.

Ensure Efficient VT System Financing. This issue has not yet been resolved through the SDF and
requires a significant level of additional analysis if effective development is to take place.

Use Appropriate MIS Designer. One aspect of the project was to "develop and test an MIS for labor
market information and a data management system for VTCs". It was not done well (see Section 4.2). The
inferred conclusion, it should not be the mandate of a training system provider to develop a labor market
information system. Responsibility for this function should be assigned to an agency with an overall human
resource development mandate, working in partnership with the national statistics office (this is currently
being carried out with UNDP assistance).

Set Realistic Goals for Institutional Reform. The project objectives set an ambitious agenda for reform
of the VT system. Among the benefits the project would yield were "major changes in policy and
governance structure", which would result in "shared responsibility between government and employers"
(SAR p.14). This was formulated as if at the end of the project these major policy and institutional changes
would be accomplished. It would have been more realistic to formulate the project objectives as the
beginning of a reform process that would have, upon project completion, laid the framework for further
systemic reform.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    Comments from the PIU

    l The project helped the MTEVT to increase the intake capacity of industrial VTCs, commercial
         institutes and technical institutes as well as workshops for the handicapped where about 57 new
         workshops were supported, creating at least 1,120 posts.
    l Due to a complex financing scheme and nature of the project, the government did not have control
         over proposed co-financiers' funding including Japanese and Dutch governments.
    l The EU contribution which is supporting quality improvement for selective expansion of new pilot
         VTCs in oil and gas, training for women, and hotel and tourism is still not yet completed and
         behind the target date. Although the project was closed end of December 2004 with a six-month



                                                       - 14 -

        extension, the EU subcomponent may need two additional years. Reflecting this delay in evaluation
        of this project, we feel, is not justified .
    l In spite of delays inccured at the beginning of the project as a result of staff shortages which
        hindered the project launching and payment delays due to OPEC FUND procedures, in general the
        PIU has worked hard to complete all project activities more or less on time. The rating of PIUs'
        performance in para 7.6 as " Unsatisfactory " is not fair.

    Comments from the MTEVT

       The establishment of the SDF is a positive indicator of improving the VTS in Yemen in spite of all
        constraints and problems it is facing now. The government's determination to establish the SDF
        and make it operative, and to be supported by both the private and public sectors with majority
        from the private sector in the board of directors, is evidence of the government's seriousness to
        improve the VTS .
       The volume and size of the private sector's economic activities were overestimated in Yemen,
        where the private sector is only more active in two governorates, Hodeidah and Taiz. In other
        governorates, the government is still encouraging the private sector to play its role to invest its
        financial resources. The investment law ensures generous incentives to attract private-sector
        investment in any feasible economical project of any size and shape.
       The government's annual budget for the VT Sector has been increased and improved during last
        four years.
       The MTEVT started making contacts with the private sector to be involved in the examination and
        trainee assessment of VT graduates, which aims to link the existing VT institutions with the
        surrounding labor market. Some trainers from the private sectors are participating in the VT
        examinations.
       The MTEVT capacity building cannot be ignored where most of the ministry key staff have been
        trained. A core resource persons team for curricula development was created within the ministry
        with remarkable achievements in preparing and developing curricula in the last five years and they
        will continue this important task in future as well.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
NCVT become policy organ for TEVT.           NCVT actively leads.                 NCVT has not yet become policy organ for
                                                                                  TEVT.
* LCVTs (Local Council for Vocational        LCVTs evaluate staff and recommend   Original idea to set up one LCVT per
Training) become authorized to manage        changes.                             governorate was modified to have five
VTCs/VTIs in their area and are given                                             multi-governorate LCVTs covering whole
appropriate training and budgets to carry out                                     country for the obvious reasons of efficiency
their responsibilities.                                                           and cost-effectiveness. Five LCVTs were
                                                                                  established, although they do not actually
                                                                                  manage the VTCs/VTIs. However, MTEVT's
                                                                                  local offices handle this function where heads
                                                                                  of these offices play important roles such as
                                                                                  deputy chairman or secretary of the LCVT.
Increase proportion of handicapped training  30% over 2000 base                   22%
in VTCs/VTIs.
Increase lifetime training for employed and  12,000                               14,300
unemployed adults.
Start a program of tracer studies to follow  Internalized in MTEVT                Internalized in MTEVT
TEVT graduates.
Increase proportion of women in TVET.        26%                                  23%


Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Improve VTCs                                 15                                   20
SDF overhead as % training expenditures      15                                   13 in 2003




1End of project




                                                               - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                   Appraisal     Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                                                    Estimate         Estimate           Appraisal
                           Component                              US$ million      US$ million
1. Vocational Training System Management                               2.70               3.82                141
2. Quality Improvement of Vocational Training                         42.30              30.82                 73
3. Community Based Adult Education                                     6.00               0.00                  0
4. Implementation Unit                                                 0.50               1.51                300

Total Baseline Cost                                                   51.50              36.15
 Physical Contingencies                                                4.90               0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                   3.40               0.00
                             Total Project Costs                      59.80              36.15
                     Total Financing Required                         59.80              36.15
1) It should ne noted that the IDA Credit amount in US Dollars was reduced by US$3.6 million because of a
change in the SDR/USDollar exchange rate.
2) Figures may not add up due to rounding.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                     Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                    2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Works                                3.00             6.10              1.00            10.70           20.80
                                       (2.40)           (5.00)           (0.80)            (0.00)          (8.20)
2. Goods                               12.90             0.00              5.60            10.50           29.00
                                      (11.20)           (0.00)           (3.20)            (0.00)         (14.40)
3. Services                             0.00             0.00              1.60            5.20            6.80
                                       (0.00)           (0.00)           (1.60)            (0.00)          (1.60)
4. Project Management                   0.00             0.00              0.00            3.20            3.20
                                       (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
    Total                              15.90             6.10              8.20            29.60           59.80
                                      (13.60)           (5.00)           (5.60)            (0.00)         (24.20)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                     Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                    2          N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Works                                0.13            3.48              0.02             9.10           12.73
                                       (0.00)           (2.98)           (0.00)           (0.00)          (2.98)
2. Goods                               12.48            2.10              0.31             1.90           16.79
                                      (11.30)           (1.44)           (0.30)           (0.00)         (13.04)
3. Services                             0.00            0.00              5.12             0.00           5.12
                                       (0.00)           (0.00)           (3.97)           (0.00)          (3.97)
4. Project Management                   0.00            0.00              1.51             0.00           1.51
                                       (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.61)           (0.00)          (0.61)



                                                     - 17 -

       Total                               12.61              5.58              6.96             11.00            36.15
                                          (11.30)            (4.42)            (4.88)            (0.00)           (20.60)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
      3) It should ne noted that the IDA Credit amount in US Dollars was reduced by US$3.6 million because of a change in
      the SDR/USDollar exchange rate.
      4) Figures may not add up due to rounding.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                    Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA        Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Vocational Training         3.20         0.10         0.00        3.73         0.09       0.00       116.6     90.0      0.0
System Management
2. Quality Improvement of     21.10         8.00        20.00       16.26         3.56      11.00       77.1      44.5     55.0
Vocational Training
3. Community Based Adult       0.00         0.80         6.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Education
4. Implementation Unit         0.00         0.60         0.00        0.61         0.90       0.00        0.0     150.0      0.0
Total                         24.30         9.50        26.00       20.60         4.55      11.00       84.8      47.9     42.3

   Note: 1) The IDA Credit amount in US Dollars was reduced by US$3.6 million because of a change in the
   SDR/USDollar exchange rate.
    2) Figures may not add updue to rounding.




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic justification of the project was based on an Internal Rate of Return (IRR) analysis, which
assumed a rate of unemployment of 10 percent for IRR calculations and yielded a 16 percent rate of return.
This exercise was not repeated at the conclusion of the project, since there was no data available to
calculate the unemployment rate among graduates of VTCs. Still, the overall unemployment rate in 2000
had reached 11.5 percent and was even higher for the 15-24 age group, reaching 19-20 percent. According
to the sensitivity analysis presented in the SAR, a 20 percent unemployment rate among graduates would
have reduced the rate of return to around 13 percent. A higher unemployment rate would likely bring the
rate of return to under 10 percent.




                                                   - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/28/1994                4    SR. EDUCATOR (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             SR. IMPLEMENTATION SP.
                                             (1); SINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); SR. EDUCATION SPEC. (1)
              03/27/1994                3    SENIOR EDUCATION SPEC.
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); SENIOR ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST(1)
              10/08/1994                4    SENIOR EDUCATION
                                             SPEC(1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC (1);
                                             LABOR MARKET SPEC (1);
                                             VT SPEC (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/16/1994                4    SR EDUCATION SPEC (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPEC (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC
                                             (1); GENDER SPEC (1)
              03/15/1995                8    SR EDUCATION SPEC (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPEC (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC (1);
                                             GENDER SPEC (1); LABOR
                                             MARKET SPEC (1); VT SPEC
                                             (2)

 Supervision

              03/13/1996                5    EDUCATION SPEC (1); SR           S               S
                                             EDUCATOR (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1); SR
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SP. (1);
                                             SR EDUCATION SPEC (1)
              06/17/1996                3    EDUCATION SPEC (1);              S               S
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              11/04/1996                3    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             SR.IMPLEMENTATION SPEC
                                             (1); EDUCATION SPEC (1)
              04/17/1997                1    SR.IMPLEMENTATION SPEC           S               S
                                             (1)
              12/06/1997                1    SENIOR IMPLEMENTATION            S               S
                                             SPEC (1)



                                              - 20 -

               05/21/1998              1   SR.IMPLEMENTATION SPEC             S    S
                                           (1)
               10/09/1998              3   SENIOR IMPLEM. SPEC (1);           S    S
                                           TECHNICAL EDUCATOR (1);
                                           FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
               11/15/1999              3   ECONOMIST (1); SECTOR              U    S
                                           MANAGER (1); OPERATIONS
                                           OFFICER (1)
               06/30/2000              7   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);            U    S
                                           T&VT SPEC (1); RESEARCH
                                           ANALYST (1); LABOR
                                           MARKET SPEC (1); SR
                                           ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT SPEC (1);
                                           EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM
                                           SPEC (1)
               05/13/2001              3   ECONOMIST (1);                     S    S
                                           IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               05/06/2002              3   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);            S    S
                                           VOCATIONAL TRN. SPEC.
                                           (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                           (1)
               08/01/2002              2   SENIOR OPERATIONS                  S    S
                                           OFFICER (1); VOCATIONAL
                                           TRN SPEC (1)
               05/06/2002              2   SR OPERATIONS OFFICER              S    S
                                           (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                           (1)
               05/06/2002              3   SR OPERATIONS OFFICER              U    S
                                           (1); ENGINEER (1);
                                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
               10/01/2003              3   SR OPERATIONS OFFICER              U    S
                                           (1); VTE SPEC (1);
                                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)

 ICR
               02/18/2004             3     SR OPERATIONS                     S    S
                                            OFFICER (1); VTE SPEC
                                            (1); OPERATIONS
                                            ANALYST (1)

VTE=VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             NA                        122,000
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  NA                        120,000
  Supervision                            NA                        476,000
  ICR                                    NA                         30,000
  Total                                                            748,000



                                            - 21 -

- 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
The PIU performance improved greatly in recent years.




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report, Vocational Training Project, IDA, November 10, 1995
Mid-Term Review, IDA, June-July 2000
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper: 2003-2005, Government of Yemen, May 31, 2002
Country Assistance Strategy (24372-YEM), IBRD, August 8, 2002
Republic of Yemen - Poverty Update, IDA, December 11, 2002
Technical Education and Vocational Training in Yemen, Overview and Strategy Development, Ahmed
Gdoura, September 2003




                                                 - 25 -

- 26 -

