Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14485-YEl
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
NOVEMBER 10, 1995
Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
Official Exchange Rate:    US$1 = YR 50
Market Rate (August 1995): US$1 = YR 120
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AET       Adult Education and Training
CPPR      Country Portfolio Performance Review
GAVTT   General Authority for Vocational and Technical Training
GIA       General Investment Authority
GTZ       German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       International Development Association
LCVT      Local Council for Vocational Training
LTPACs  Local Training Program Advisory Committees
MIS       Management Information System
MOE       Ministry of Education
MOH       Ministry of Health
MOL       Ministry of Labor (in the former South)
MOPD    Ministry of Planning and Development
MSSL      Ministry of Social Security, Social Services and Labor
NCVT    National Council for Vocational Training
NGO       Non-Govermental Organization
NIVIT    National Institute for Vocational Instructor Training
PHRD      Population and Human Resource Development
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
SDF       Skill Development Fund
TA        Technical Assistance
VT        Vocational Training
VTC       Vocational Training Center
VTS       Vocational Training System



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.     INTRODUCTION        ................................................    1
A. Country Background ......................................... 1
B. The Education Sector ......................................... 1
C. Demand for Skilled Workers  .......................................  2
II.  CURRENT STATUS AND ISSUES IN VOCATIONAL TRAINING .                                .2
A. Background and Current Status.                                                             2
B. Major Issues.                                                                              3
C. Adult Education and Training.                                                              4
D. IDA Strategy and Lending Experience.                                                       4
III. THE PROJECT.                                                                                     6
A. Objectives.                                                                                6
B. Policy Framework.                                                                          6
C. Project Components.                                                                        7
Management and Financing of VT.                                                        7
Quality Improvement.                                                                   7
Adult Education and Training for Females.                                              9
contd/...
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to the Republic of Yemen in March 1995. The mission
was composed of Yogendra Saran (Mission Leader and Task Manager, MN2HR), Arun Joshi (Education Specialist,
MN2HR), Kei Kawabata (Sr. Economist & Gender Specialist, ESP) and PHRD consultants. Special recognition is
extended to the PHRD consultants who participated during all phases of project preparation. Special mention is
extended to Shobhana Sosale who assisted the Task Manager in preparing the Implementation Volumes for the
project. At headquarters, Iqbal Kaur (Staff Assistant) provided valuable support in processing project documents.
Peer reviewers were Lloyd Briggs (Prin. Education Specialist, EC4HR) and Sue Berryman (Sr. Education Specialist,
EMTHR). The report was prepared under the overall supervision of Mr. Jacques Baudouy (Chief, MN2HR) and
approved by Mr. Inder Sud (Director, MN2) and Mr. Caio Koch-Weser (Vice President, MNA).



- ii -
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents (Contd/-)
IV.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ..... 10
Summary of Project Costs ........................................  10
Project Financing  .............................................  11
Procurement Arrangements .......................... .  11
Disbursements .12
Accounts and Audits .12
Management and Implementation .13
Status of Project Preparation .13
Project Implementation   .......................................    13
Implementation Schedule .13
Project Supervision and Monitoring .13
M id-term     Review  ...........................................                       13
Impact Assessment ..........................................  14
Project Sustainability .........................................  14
V.     BENEFITS AND RISKS ...........................................  14
VI.    ACTIONS AGREED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ........................  15
ANNEXES
1.     Sector Policy Statement
2.      Demand for Skilled Labor from New Investment
3.     Present Issues in Pre-employment Training
4.     Issues in Adult Education and Training
5.     Vocational Training Project Framework
6.     Governance of the Vocational Training System
7.     Operational Procedures for the Skill Development Fund
8.     Financing of Vocational Training
9.     Sub-project Sunmmary Sheets
10.    Contents of Implementation Volumes
11.    Present and Proposed Programs and Annual Intake Capacities of Project VTCs
12.    Project Cost Tables & Recurrent Cost Table
13.    Procurement Arrangements
14.    Disbursement Schedule
15.    Summary of Technical Assistance Requirements
16.    Project Implementation Schedule
17.    Supervision Plan
18.    Mid-term Review
19.    Impact Assessment
20.    Risk Analysis for Implementation of Project Components
contd/...



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents (Contd/-)
ANNEXES (Contd/-)
21.   Background Tables
A: Employment in Industry and Commerce, 1993
B: Vocational Training Centers in Yemen, 1992/93
C: Enrollments, Graduates and Teachers in VTCs, 1992/93
D: Typical Curriculum Structures in VTCs, 1992/93
E: Annual Work Permits Issued to Expatriates, 1993
22.   Economic Justification of the Project
23.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
TABLES
Tables in Text
Table 1:  Vocational Training Centers in Yemen, 1992/93 ........................... 2
Table 2:  Financing Plan ...............................................  11
CHARTS
Chart 1 a: Number of Projects by Economic Sectors
Chart 1 b: Fixed Assets by Economic Sectors
Chart 2:  Number of Employees for Starting-up Projects by Governorates
Chart 3:  Vocational Training System Governance Structure
Chart 4:  Skill Development Fund -- Flow of Funds
Chart 5:  SDF: Mobilization of Resources
Chart 6:  SDF: Utilization of Resources
MAP       IBRD 27084



I



- Iv -
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Government of the Republic of Yemen
Implementing                Ministry of Social Security, Social Services and Labor
Agencies:                   Ministry of Education
Beneficiaries:              N/A
Poverty Category:           Not applicable. Although poverty alleviation is not an explicit objective
of the project, improving income generating prospects for women by
providing them with appropriate skills in line with labor demand are
expected to contribute to poverty reduction in Yemen.
Credit Amount:              SDR 15.7 million (US$24.3 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard IDA
Commitinent Fee:           0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan (US$ million):
Local  Foreign  Total
IDA                              6.5    17.8   24.3
Co-financiers "                   1.8    24.2    26.0
Government                       9.5    --        9.5
Total                            17.8    42.0    59.8
Cofinancing is expected from OPEC Fund, Dutch Government, Japanese Government,
and EU who have expressed interest in the project.
Economic Rate of Return:    16%
Enviromment Rating:         "C"
Map No.:                   IBRD 27084
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No.14485 YEM
Project ID No:             5912



I



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
I.   INTRODUCTION
A. Country Background
1.1    Endowed with limited natural resources, Yemen belongs to the group of least developed
countries. Its per capita GNP in 1994 was estimated at $280'. Scant rainfall and desert conditions in
many areas severely restrict agriculture while manufacturing is still at an infant stage. The average life
expectancy is less than 50 years; fertility and mortality rates are high as is illiteracy among adults,
especially females.
1.2    The unification of Yemen in 1990 opened new opportunities for development. The border
between North and South disappeared, government controls in the South were replaced by market forces,
and liberal economic policies opened the country to foreign investors. This has led to a surge in oil
exploration and exports which together with the resumption of limited labor emigration to Arab oil
countries will provide resources for economic growth in the second half of the 1990s. The Government
is now preparing an economic reform program designed to reduce fiscal deficits, ease price controls, and
increase reliance on the private sector. With the possible revival of the economy there will be an
increasing demand for skilled labor in a variety of categories. To meet this demand a sustained effort is
needed to upgrade the quality of Yemen's labor force.
B. The Education Sector
1.3    Education and training in Yemen have grown rapidly over the past two decades. Enrollment in
primary education reached 1.8 million in 1992/93, a tenfold increase since the early 1970s. In addition,
some 70 thousand adults received literacy training that year, of whom more than 40 thousand were
women. Almost 600 thousand students attended secondary schools in 1992/93 (30% enrollment rate)
compared to 22 thousand in 1970/71, while more than 100 thousand students were registered in teacher
training institutes and the country's two universities. Enrollment in vocational training centers, on the
other hand, was only 6,000.
1.4    Virtually all boys and about 40% of girls are now receiving primary education. In urban areas
participation of girls is also high, although it still lags somewhat behind that of boys. In rural areas,
however, enrollment rates for girls are much lower than those for boys. This is partly the result of
traditional attitudes which discourage female education. It also reflects the shortage of female teachers
who are more acceptable to parents for girls' education. The under-representation of girls continues in all
other streams of education.
1.5    The rapid build-up of education facilities gives testimony to the priority assigned to this sector by
the Government. Major support also came from foreign donors who provided teachers and financed
school construction and equipment. IDA has been heavily involved in the sector: since 1974 fifteen
education projects were approved for Yemen. But the past emphasis on quantitative expansion has led to
serious quality deficiencies: inadequate teacher qualifications, overcrowded and poorly maintained school
buildings, and insufficient instruction materials causing low achievements among students and graduates.
Recent IDA projects therefore have focussed on quality improvements in basic and secondary education as
well as increasing female participation.2
1.6   In the current decade, the Government's strategy for education and training is concentrating on
meeting the basic education needs of a growing population; strengthening programs for human capital
1/     Yemen: Country Assistance Strategy, 1995, Country Operations Division, Middle East and North Africa Region,
Country Department II.
2/     Basic Education Project (1992), Cr.2412-YEM; Education Sector Investment Project (1994), Cr.2570-YEM.



2
formation to generate needed labor skills; improving gender equity in access to education, and training
facilities for the handicapped. Emphasis will be placed on institution building and decentralization of
management structures. While in the past, education was viewed as the sole responsibility of the public
sector, the Government now supports private sector participation in all educational streams, including
vocational and technical training.
C. Demand for Skilled Workers
1.7    Yemen is still at the early stages of economic development with the bulk of its 3.6 million labor
force working in traditional sectors (mainly agriculture) estimated to be 2.5 million. Demand for skilled
workers suitable for employment in modern industry and commerce frequently cannot be met due to the
inadequate scope and quality of existing training programs. This has led to a sizeable body of immigrant
workers (currently estimated at 20,000) with main concentration in larger firms, where they account for
about 15-20 percent of the work force.
1.8    The present employment in industrial and commercial firms is close to 50,000; another 100,000
or more workers are employed in small production and service industries (Background Table A, Annex
21). Assuming an annual attrition rate of 3 percent, there would be around 4,500 job openings a year.
In addition, new private investment projects licensed during the past two years are expected to generate as
many as 28,000 jobs within the next three to five years (Annex 2).
1.9    Private establishments dominate the industrial and commercial sectors. Only about 10 percent of
the labor force is in public enterprises (see Background Table A in Annex 21). Industrial firms are
mainly engaged in oil production and refining, in food processing, textiles and clothing, chemicals and
plastic goods, kitchen utensils and furniture, building materials and metal working. There is also a
sizeable construction industry, and a large number of small and medium sized trading companies. Other
service industries employing skilled workers include financial institutions, hotels and catering. Most of
these firms are located in Sana'a, Hodeidah, Taiz, Aden and Hadramout.
II. CURRENT STATUS AND ISSUES IN VOCATIONAL TRAINING
A. Background and Current Status
2.1    Formal vocational training (VT) in Yemen began in the early 1970s with the establishment of
Vocational Training Centers (VTCs) offering two-year programs for graduates of basic education (9th
grade). As the needs for skilled manpower increased in the industrial, commercial, agricultural and
health sectors, additional training institutions were established by a variety of public sector agencies with
some support from donor agencies.
2.2    Out of a total of 26 VTCs, 15 offer industrial and commercial pre-employment training
(Background Table B, Annex 21). Their basic objective is to supply skilled workers for the labor market
thus strengthening one of the principal factors for successful industrial and economic development. Close
to 5,000 students are enrolled in these centers while the number of graduates has averaged about 2,100
p.a. in recent years.
Table 1. Vocational Training Centers in Yemen, 1992/93
Economic Sector     No. of VTCs   Enrollment   Graduates   Teachers
Industry                 13           4,072         1,746        469
Commerce                  2            815           382          52
Total                    15           4,887         2 128        521
Source: General Authority for Vocational and Technical Training (GAVTT)



- 3 -
2.3    Six of the 15 industrial and commercial VTCs were controlled by the Ministry of Social Security,
Social Services and Labor (MSSL), eight by the Ministry of Education (MOE), and one by the Ministry
of Construction. There are no private VTCs offering pre-employment training. Training for the
handicapped is provided at some 19 centers through NGOs, private sector, MOH, MSSL, and through
local councils for development. In-service training is provided by several public sector institutions (e.g.,
Electricity Corporation, Ministry of Information, General Authority for Civil Aviation, National
Cigarettes and Matches Company) and enterprise-based training is provided by four large private sector
companies (Hayel Saeed Group of Companies, Thabet Brothers, Al-Thawarah Industrial Complex -- a
group of twenty small companies, and Yemen Hunt Oil Company) to train their own employees.
2.4    The control of VTCs by different ministries has led to a fragmentation of Yemen's VTS which is
marked by uneven course structures and regional distribution as well as the absence of a cohesive national
strategy for vocational training. The result has been limited access to training and neglect of female
participation, poor quality and relevance of training programs, and weak management structures, all of
which have reduced the efficiency and effectiveness of the system. More recently, budgetary constraints
have created severe financial problems for the VTCs which still depend exclusively on government
support for their operations.
B. Maior Issues
2.5    The present VTS is facing four major issues: sector management, financial sustainability of VT
operations, quality and relevance, and access and equity. Turning to the first issue of sector
management, pre-employment training is the responsibility of the Government while in-service training is
organized by private or public enterprises. This is a model that has proven to be viable in many
countries, both developing and industrialized ones; the model is especially relevant to Yemen's existing
state of development, where private training capacity is weak. Overall policy coordination of pre-
employment training was initially a function of the MOE in the northern part of the country and MOL in
the south of the country. After the unification of Yemen in 1990, the newly established Ministry of
Labor and Vocational Training (later changed to Ministry of Social Security, Social Services and Labor)
became responsible for sector policy and management. Within the Ministry, the General Authority for
Vocational and Technical Training (GAVTT) serves as executive agency for supervising the VTCs.
2.6    While administrative responsibilities have thus been delineated, actual communication between the
MSSL and other public agencies involved in VT remains weak. The Ministry has yet to develop a
cohesive strategy and supporting policy framework acceptable to the principal constituents and
beneficiaries of the VTS. To improve the present management structure, the Government realizes that
stronger linkages are needed with employers and communities at the national and local levels; national
training norms will have to be introduced; and individual VTCs will require greater autonomy and active
participation of the private sector in managing their affairs and developing programs attuned to the needs
of local labor markets. In-service training by employers and private training providers also need
strengthening.
2.7    Financing of Vocational Training. VT consumes about one percent of government spending on
education. It is very limited and can only support a minimum of operating expenses.3 While students are
subsidized through small stipends and support for boarding and meals, there is no cost recovery through
student fees. External assistance is provided by foreign donors (especially, a decade-long assistance from
Germany, and more recently assistance from the Netherlands and OPEC Fund) who contribute equipment
and technical assistance. But this does not meet the investment requirements of the VTS, consequently
alternative sources of financing through beneficiary participation (employers and students) would be
essential. Even with the anticipated involvement of private sector in VT, a certain amount of government
support would be justified over the longer term for the following reasons: (a) most students are poor and
3/    In 1995. total recurrent expenditure for the 15 VTCs included: YR40 million for salaries, YR20 million for student
subsidies, and YRIO million for overheads, supplies, maintenance and instructional resources -- Mission estimates.



cannot even afford to bear the partial costs of their training; (b) special support is needed to achieve
equity-oriented objectives such as training of females, handicapped and marginal population groups; and
(c) VT contributes to the competitiveness of the national economy.
2.8    The low level of funding has been a major factor responsible for the limited access to pre-
employment training and its quality deficiencies such as shortage of instruction materials, poorly
maintained equipment and facilities, and inadequate teacher training. In addition, the small size of the
private sector has resulted in limited development of enterprise-based training (only in four companies)
and complete absence of apprenticeship training. To overcome the financial constraints and to develop an
adequate and sustainable resource base for the training of skilled workers, the financial base of the VTS
needs to be broadened and its access to resources diversified. This requires a greater participation of
employers who would benefit from the training of the domestic labor force. Such changes in policy
would help to strengthen the financial viability of the VTS and gradually ensure that the burden of
support for vocational training would be shared by government and the main beneficiaries (employers) of
VTCs, and more specifically provide incentives for private sector to provide such training.
2.9    The issues of quality and relevance of present training programs are reviewed in Annex 3 which
highlights weaknesses in curricula, teacher qualification, trainee assessment and supplies of instruction
materials and equipment. The annex also reviews present shortcomings in access and gender equity,
including training for the handicapped.
C. Adult Education and Training
2.10   Adult education and training (AET) is usually associated with literacy training and covers both
rural and urban areas. Courses for women focus on income generating skills such as sewing and
handicrafts, crop management and animal husbandry, home economics and health education. Adult
education programs have had enormous appeal for adolescent girls and women, and are popular in spite
of extremely poor conditions at most centers as they provide an important outlet for young girls and
women not only in terms of enhancing their ability to enter into income generating activities but more
importantly, to become literate.
2.11   Adult education and training centers face similar issues and constraints as the formal VTS (Annex
4). AET centers operate as welfare activities rather than as educational and skills development facilities.
No standards are applied, teachers are paid only a "token allowance" and not a salary, and centers run on
shoestring budgets. As low priority activities, many centers have received no operational expenses
allocations for the last few years. Consequently, the quality of programs has deteriorated considerably.
There is a high turnover of teaching staff and retraining is often inadequate. Overcoming the problems
requires Government as well as community commitment to provide systematic support to the centers to
make them more responsive to local conditions and markets through changes in the organizational
structure of adult education and training, more decentralization and community involvement; and
diversification of financial resources to achieve long-term sustainability of training programs.
D. IDA Strategy and Lending Experience
2.12   IDA's lending strategy in Yemen has supported government plans to establish a modern education
and training system, and has been closely associated with the development of appropriate sector policies.
Educational objectives and strategies were reviewed in a study on human development4 and the findings
were discussed with the Government in February 1992. As a result of this review, IDA's assistance
strategy is focussing on helping the Yemeni Government to: (a) improve learning achievements in primary
and secondary schools, and increase access for girls; (b) develop more effective VT programs to upgrade
the skill profile of the labor force; and (c) make higher education more responsive to labor market needs.
4/     Republic of Yemen, "Human Development: Societal Needs and Human Capital Response," June 23, 1992, Report no:
9765 SR, Population and Human Resources Division, Country Department II, Middle East and North Africa Region.



This strategy is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy which supports human resources
development, and recognized the need for skilled manpower development.
2.13   Over the past two decades, IDA has supported 15 education projects in Yemen, including four
projects in the former Peoples Democratic Republic of Yemen, with a total financial commitment of about
US$183 million. Ten projects have been completed while the others are at various stages of
implementation. The earlier projects focussed on primary and secondary teacher training, adult education
programs, capacity development in the MOE, and other aspects related to the quantitative expansion
experienced throughout the 1970s and 1980s. IDA support contributed to sectoral improvements: adult
literacy rose from 27% in 1973 to 39% in 1990, with marked increase in female literacy from about 8%
to about 26%; during the period 1970-91, percentage of age cohort enrolled in primary school improved
from 22 to 76 with female enrollments increasing from 7 to 37; and the number of expatriate teachers in
the school system reduced from 80% in 1980 to some 10% in 1993.5 More recently, attention has been
shifted to gender equity, quality enhancement and training of skilled manpower. Nine of the ten
completed projects have achieved most of their stated objectives. However, delays in project
implementation began in 1989, slowing disbursements. The delays were caused mainly by political
tensions following the unification of Yemen in 1990, and by unrealistic exchange rates which made
implementation of civil works contracts difficult. New payment procedures for local civil works contracts
to offset price escalation during construction have been established. This change is showing
improvements in disbursements for ongoing projects.
2.14   Lessons from past projects have been considered in designing the proposed project. In particular,
government commitment will be obtained for appropriate levels of technical assistance. Specific lessons
from the Technical Training Project (1985) include: (a) the need to develop a sector policy; (b) the need
for increased role of private sector in skilled manpower development; and (c) the need for establishing
adequate project implementation arrangements for civil works during project preparation.
2.15   Remedial actions set out during the May 1995 Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) are
expected to have a positive impact on the implementation of the proposed project. Specifically, (a) civil
works contracts will be denominated in US dollars or other stable convertible foreign currencies and the
payment of government will be carried out using the parallel exchange rate of 28 days before bid opening
(para. 4.11); (b) constraints to project implementation will be eased by the hiring of one or two experts in
project management to overcome the limited technical capacity of the responsible Project Implementation
Units (para. 4.17); and (c) revision of thresholds for procurement review at various levels -- project
directors US$0.2 million, sector ministries US$1.0 million, High Tender Board US$3.0 million.
2.16  In late 1993, the Government requested IDA assistance for a major overhaul of the country's
vocational training system. The proposed project responds to this request. It would address major
institutional and policy issues at the national and local levels, establishing a governance structure with
strong private sector representation which will be able to deliver programs attuned to the demand of local
labor market. Emphasis would be given to improving the quality and relevance of training, and to
increasing the number of female students. Private employers would share the costs of vocational training
thus reducing dependence on government funding. Strong donor collaboration and IDA's leadership are
necessary to implement such a comprehensive reform program. In particular, IDA's proposed policy
changes have been extensively discussed during donor coordination meetings chaired by the German team
leader for VT, and as a result would not be in conflict with activities of other donors who are actively
involved in the training sector. Moreover, coordination with German assisted interventions through a
complement of specialists would be ensured and is considered to be a factor to mitigate risks in
implementing the proposed project (para 5.2).
5/    UNESCO data, 1993.



- 6 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.1   The proposed project would help strengthen Yemen's capacity to train skilled labor in line with
current and emerging demand in the economy. The project has three objectives: (a) strengthening VTS
management by providing a major role to the private sector in policy-making, management and financing
of the VT system; (b) improving the quality and relevance of VT through the enhancement of programs in
existing centers and selective expansion of two pilot centers; and (c) reorientation, through participation
of communities, of adult education and training programs for women to improve their relevance. Major
characteristics of project strategies are given in Annex 5.
B. Policy Framework
3.2   Changing the policy framework under which the VTS operates would be a prerequisite to achieve
the above mentioned objectives. This involves a new governance structure and financing system, the
basic features of which are spelled out in the attached Sector Policy Statement (Annex 1 and assurances
during negotiations para. 6.1(a)). More specifically, the proposed framework provides that overall sector
policy and management would become the responsibility of a National Council for Vocational Training
(NCVT), with operational support provided by GAVTT. The project would support only those centers
willing to implement policies formulated by NCVT and monitored by GAVTT (assurances during
negotiations para. 6.1(b)). Individual VTCs would be given more autonomy and flexibility to develop
training programs responsive to the needs of local and regional labor markets. The Centers would be
supported and managed by Local Councils for Vocational Training (LCVTs), and receive guidance on
specific training needs from Local Training Program Advisory Committees (LTPACs). During
negotiations the Government provided the decree-laws establishing the NCVT, LCVTs and LTPACs, and
for the reorientation of GAVTT. Details of the proposed governance structure are outlined in Annex 6.
3.3   Role of the Private Sector. The new policy framework would give employers, especially the
private sector, a leading role in the management and financing of vocational training. Private employers
would have majority representation in all institutions dealing with VT i.e., the NCVT, LCVTs, LTPACs
and the SDF. This would help ensure that sector policies will be responsive to the needs of employers,
and that pre-employment training in VTCs will produce skills that are in demand. Strong private sector
involvement and the commitment of private funds should also provide incentives to manage the VTS
effectively and efficiently.
3.4   Financing of Vocational Training. Additional resources for both pre-employment and in-service
training, would be mobilized through a Skill Development Fund (SDF) financed largely with contributions
from participating employers (Annex 7). This would strengthen the long-term viability of the VTS and
provide resources for different types of enterprise-based training, including apprenticeship and cooperative
programs. During negotiations the Government provided the decree-law establishing the Skill
Development Fund (SDF). The SDF would start operations in 1996. It would draw its resources from a
work permit fee charged to expatriates, and a training levy amounting to one percent of the payroll paid
by participating industrial and commercial firms with more than ten employees. These arrangements
would yield an estimated YR150 million per annum at the time of project completion (2003) as against
the current government budget of YR70 million for VTCs. The SDF would support pre-employment
training in VTCs as well as in-service training by enterprises. As transfers to VTCs would be limited to
30 percent of the salary support received from the government (which in itself would be declining over
time), the bulk of the Fund's resources (some 85 to 90 percent in the year 2000) would go to enterprise
training and independent private training providers (Annex 7). Since participating firms could draw on
the Fund only for training purposes, the existence of such resources would provide a powerful incentive
to develop suitable training programs.



3.5    Transfers from the SDF would strengthen the financial base of VTCs. Additional resources
would come through retention of income from sudent fees, income generating activities, and voluntary
contributions from the private sector (assurances during negotiations para. 6.1(c)). All contributions from
the private sector to either VTCs or to SDF would be tax exempt for which assurances have been
obtained from the government (see Annex 7). This would allow the Centers to adequately cover expenses
for training materials, maintenance of key equipment, or short-term employment of specialized instructors
from industry and business thus improving the efficiency of VT programs. Annex 8 illustrates the
changing pattern in financing vocational training that could be expected for the years 1996-2003 -- SDF
contributions to VTCs would be according to agreed criteria (Annex 7 paras. 6.1 to 6.6) and would be
reduced from 50% in 1996 to about 10% by the year 2003 (Annex 8), as the fund expands (assurances
during negotiations para. 6.1(d)).
C. Proiect Comuonents6
Management and Financing of VT (US$2.7m)
3.6    Governance Structure (US$1.3 m). To establish this structure the project would provide technical
assistance (TA) to GAVTT in establishing a system for sector planning, policy-making, and organization
development, to streamline GAVTT structure into six divisions according to functions (guidance and
training, technical affairs, testing, planning and research, media and services, and finance and
administration). Consultants would also be used to develop the management capability of VTC Directors
and senior staff through national training programs. The scope of the management information system
being established in collaboration with German assistance would be enlarged and VTC-based management
information systems would be established; these would also provide input for the GAVTT-based MIS.
Necessary computers, software and training materials would be provided through the project for this
purpose. The project would also support establishment of a new Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in
GAVTT (US$0.5 m).
3.7   Skill Development Fund (US$1.9 m). To support operating expenses for the SDF the project
would provide US$1.6 million, to be disbursed against categories as specified in para. 4.11. The project
would also support specialist services and training to the staff responsible for operating the Fund, and
equipment, furniture, and necessary software to make the Fund operational. In CY96 the Government
would contribute YR1O million to jumpstart the SDF. Meanwhile, the Government has appointed a
prominent businessman to be Interim Chairman to facilitate establishment of the SDF.
Quality Improvement (US$42.3 m)
3.8    To improve the quality and relevance of pre-employment training offered by VTCs, and to ensure
sustained in-service training of the existing work force, the project would support: (a) strengthening
institutional capacity for curriculum development including trainee assessment and instructional material
development; (b) in-service training of trainers; (c) developing a system of continuing education for
employees of business and industry; (d) strengthening selected vocational training centers; and
(e) strengthening programs for rehabilitating the physically handicapped through vocational training. Sub-
project summaries are provided in Annex 9.
3.9   Strengthenine Institutional Capacitv for Curriculum Development Including Trainee Assessment
and Instructional Material Development (US$1.7 m). The project would support establishing a system of
curriculum development which includes performance standards, preparation of training materials, and skill
testing responsive to labor market demands, nationally and locally. This would be supported through TA
including foreign and local experts and overseas fellowships to the relevant General Directorates of
6/    Sub-project summaries are provided in Annex 9 and detailed write-ups are given in Implementation Volume 1.
Contents of Implementation Volumes are provided in Annex 10.



- 8 -
GAVTT. With assistance from specialists, capabilities of VTCs would also be developed through in-
country training workshops, focussing on training of resource persons. A core group for curriculum
development, comprising resource persons developed through the project, would be set up in each VTC.
This group would liaise with the LTPACs in developing programs and curricula. About 60 percent of
time would be devoted to basic skill development to national standards, and the remaining time to job
specific skills in demand, locally. It would therefore be open to the LTPACs to consider options for
practical training through apprenticeship and enterprise-based training whenever and wherever feasible.
3.10   Developing a System of In-service Training of Trainers (US$2.2 mi). To complement the efforts
of National Institute for Vocational Instructor Training (NIVIT), supported by Germany, the project
would support in-service training of all instructors/trainers in the VTCs (already in sufficient numbers;
Background Table C, Annex 21). This would include pedagogic training, technical skill development, and
industrial training. In addition to pedagogic training which would be provided by NIVIT, trainer
development centers (TDCs) would be established in three identified VTCs in Aden, Sana'a and Taiz, in
trades not covered at NIVIT. Each TDC would have three master trainers with proficiency in
conventional skills as well as skills for new trades developed through overseas fellowships supported by
the project. The project would also support the provision of additional classrooms, audiovisual and other
training equipment for the TDCs. The TDCs would organize skill training/upgrading programs in
new/specialized trades for the trainers of VTCs utilizing its own and VTC facilities. TDCs would
collaborate with NIVIT and jointly plan the skill upgrading programs with a view to complement and not
duplicate NIVIT-organized programs. GAVTT would coordinate the industrial training of VTC trainers,
jointly supervised by TDCs and industry.
3.11   Developing a System of Continuing Education (US$3.5 m). To develop a system of continuing
education for the benefit of employees of business and industry, VTC instructors and graduates, the
project would support two initiatives. First, the project would establish continuing education programs at
VTCs. Technical assistance will be provided for development of managers of continuing education
programs in each VTC and the establishment of management information systems in this area. The
project would provide equipment, furniture and instructional material support. Continuing education
programs would operate on a full cost recovery basis (i.e., training fee); and second, the project would
establish a hi-tech center. This Center would meet the needs of industry, other employers and VTCs in
modern technologies with a special focus on maintenance of equipment. A feasibility study, to be
reviewed by IDA, would determine the location of the Center, which could either be in a VTC or in an
industry; specific hi-tech areas; and the professional development of the Director and Deputy Director of
the Center. In addition to supporting the provision of physical facilities if needed -- building and
equipment -- the project would support TA to develop master trainers and master instructor trainers in hi-
tech areas.
3.12   Strengthening Selected Vocational Training Center (US$28.9 m). To improve learning
environment, physical facilities and instructional resources, the project would support the strengthening of
12 industrial, two commerce VTCs, and one hotel and tourism institute in locations where demand for
trained labor has been verified, and programs to be deleted, revised, expanded or added have been
identified accordingly (Annex 11); health sector VTCs have been excluded as they are covered under
health sector projects. The support would include TA for the development of each VTC including shop
layout planning and provision for rehabilitation of existing physical facilities -- buildings, workshops --
equipment, furniture and educational materials for new programs. This would result in the establishment
of new programs for an enrollment of 1000 students and upgrading the facilities for about 4600 students.
3.13   The annual output of graduates from industrial and commercial VTCs would rise from some
2,100 in 1995 to about 2,800 in 2003. This would be less than two percent of present employment in
these sectors, and about 1.5 percent of employment expected in industry and commerce by the year 2003.
3.14   Rehabilitation of the Physically Handicapped through Vocational TraininR (US$1.3 m). To
integrate the handicapped with mainstream work force and to improve and expand their training, the
project would support rehabilitation of the physically handicapped through appropriate vocational training



in the existing centers. The project would earmark US$1 million for this purpose. Existing VTCs or
community supported centers would apply for funds which would be scrutinized by a management
committee consisting of professionals established by the MSSL and supported through technical assistance
provided by the project. The criteria for selection of centers to be supported would include past
experience in training physically handicapped, availability of trainers, nature of programs being offered,
type of physically handicapped covered and community participation. The project would provide support
through necessary technical assistance and resources. All proposals above US$50,000 would be sent to
IDA for review (assurances during negotiations para. 6. 1(e)).
3.15   Selective Expansion (US$4.7 m). To meet skilled manpower demand in underserved regions the
project would support establishment of two pilot vocational training centers (capacity of 200 graduates at
each center) reflecting emerging trends in vocational training, e.g., cooperative programs, apprenticeship,
dual system, enterprise-based training. These centers would be selected, according to agreed criteria,
from the six already appraised by IDA (Annex 9). The support would include civil works, equipment,
furniture and educational materials, and instructor training (assurances during negotiations para. 6. 1(f)).
Adult Education and Training for Females (US$6.0 m)
3.16   To improve community ownership of adult education and training (AET) programs the project
would support: (i) development of institutional capacity of AET centers to design programs based on
participatory approaches; (ii) establishment of an AET project funding facility to support programs which
meet agreed criteria; and (iii) refinement of existing practices in marketing and access to credit
alternatives.
3.17   Institutional Development (US$1.1 m) would be supported through: (a) development of new
curriculum based on life skills literacy programs (such as functional literacy, numeracy including simple
bookeeping, health, nutrition, family planning, community hygiene, and legal rights and duties), and
training of instructors in literacy programs; (b) workshops and training of facilitators in participatory
approaches; (c) training of instructors in community identified income generating skills; (d) enhancing
management training through technical assistance to provide Directors of selected centers with the
opportunity to visit successful centers in other countries; and (e) organizing seminars and workshops for
further skills upgradation and exchange of experience among centers.
3.18   An AET Project Funding Facility (US$4.8 m) will support participating adult training centers to
implement reoriented programs by financing rehabilitation of buildings, equipment, instructional
materials, and vehicles based on agreed criteria. Proposals invited from AET centers would be required
to specify details of how centers plan to finance recurrent costs for facilities and equipment maintenance;
specify how they propose to obtain contributions from communities; how they would retain income
generated from training activities; and how they propose to utilize the contributions and earnings. The
project would review existing best practices and make suggestions for potential mechanisms that could be
linked with women graduating from the AET centers to launch into income generating activities.
Proposals above US$20,000 would be subject to IDA review (assurances during negotiations para.
6. 1 (g)).
3.19    The project would provide technical assistance to introduce AET centers and rural banks to
marketing and credit alternatives (US$0.2 m) to promote, in an organized manner, the production and
sale of marketable products of AET centers.



- 10 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Cost of the Proiect.
4.1    Summary of Project Costs. Project costs are estimated at YR5,978 million or US$59.8 million
equivalent (base costs estimated at YR5,162 million or US$51.6 million) and include construction, site
development and professional services for rehabilitation and expansion of existing buildings; provision of
furniture, equipment and vehicles; educational material; technical assistance consisting of specialist
services and fellowships; and operating expenses support to the Skill Development Fund (SDF).
Recurrent costs include additional staff as well as the maintenance of buildings and equipment. Foreign
exchange represents YR4,198 million (US$42.0 million) or 70 percent of total project cost. Local
currency costs are estimated at YRl,779 million (US$17.8 million). The summary of project cost by
project item and the summary of project costs by category of expenditure is given in Tables 1 and 2 in
Annex 12.
4.2    Basis of Cost Estimates. Cost of rehabilitating existing facilities including additions as necessary
is based on reviews of recently awarded contracts for similar facilities. These costs average US$300 per
sq. m. Architecture and Engineering fees for the design of the facilities are calculated at 10% of the
amount of construction. Cost estimates for equipment are based on unit prices for equipment recently
procured and on standard price lists provided by GAVTT. Furniture costs are based on current furniture
price lists and amount to 15 percent of construction. Technical assistance costs per staff month of
specialist services and fellowship training costs have been estimated on the basis of recent prices for
comparable technical assistance to Yemen. Base cost estimates reflect prices as projected at the time of
negotiations.
4.2.1  Cost and Areas per student. Area allocation for automotive shops was calculated at 45 sq. m. per
student; all other trades (electronics, carpentry, metal shop, etc.) were calculated at 18 sq. m. per student;
provision for equipment varies depending on the trade of the different shops/programs, from US$1,000 to
US$15,000, averaging US$2,000 per student place. This provision includes the rehabilitation of
existing/restructured programs and new programs.
4.3    Custom Duties and Taxes. Project costs include an estimated US$2.9 million in indirect taxes on
locally procured civil works and goods. Equipment and goods imported directly for use by government
agencies are exempt from duties and taxes.
4.4    Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency allowance of 9 percent of the
estimated cost of all project items for unforeseen physical additions (approximately US$4.8 million).
Price contingencies are estimated at US$3.4 million equivalent or 7 percent of the base cost plus physical
contingencies. Total contingencies represent 16 percent of the base cost.
4.5    Foreign Exchange component. The foreign exchange component will include: (a) rehabilitation
of existing facilities -- 52 percent; (b) furniture and educational material -- 80 percent; (c) equipment and
vehicles -- 90 percent; (d) specialist services -- 80 percent; (e) fellowships and study tours -- 100 percent
and (f) local training -- 30 percent. The resulting foreign exchange component including contingencies, is
estimated at US$42.0 or 70 percent of total project costs.
4.6    Recurrent Costs. The annual incremental recurrent costs of the project include personnel costs
estimated at YR2.2 million and for maintenance of buildings and equipment estimated at YR14.2 million
and YR29 million respectively. The project when completed will add a total of YR45.4 million annually
(base costs at December 1994 market prices) to the recurrent budget of the Government (See Table 3,
Annex 12). When this increase is compared with the additional resources for VT (YR40 million)
allocated from the SDF and other sources, the net increase in recurrent costs would only be YR5.4
million -- a negligible percentage of total budget (YR7.0 billion) of Yemen on education and training
(Table 2, Annex 8). Recurrent costs for salaries and maintenance would be provided annually and
information made available to IDA upon request (assurances during negotiations para. 6.1(h)).



- 11 -
B. Financing
4.7   Project Financing. The proposed IDA credit of US$24.3 million in addition to OPEC Fund
contribution of US$10 million, as well as the Dutch Government, Japanese Government and European
Union co-financing of US$16.0 million would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange component
(US$42.0 million) of the project and 47 percent of local costs (US$8.3 million). The government of
Yemen would finance 53 percent of local costs which amount to US$9.5 million, which includes indirect
taxes of US$2.9 million. The financing plan is shown below.
FINANCING PLAN
US$ million
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                                  6.5       17.8     24.3
Co-financiers                        1.8       24.2     26.0
Government                           9.5         --      9.5
Total                               17.8       42.0     59.8
C. Procurement Arrangements
4.8   International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Civil works contracts costing more than US$2.0 million
and goods contracts costing more than US$ 200,000 would be procured through International Competitive
Bidding in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA credits"
(January 1995). In the evaluation and comparison of bids for goods, domestic manufacturers would be
granted a margin of preference of 15 %, or the relevant duty, whichever is lower and for civil works
contracts, a margin of preference of 7.5 percent would be granted to domestic contractors who qualify, in
accordance with Appendix 2 of the Guidelines. All contracts would be subject to IDA's prior review.
The amounts and methods of procurement are shown in Annex 13.
4.9    Exceptions to ICB
(a)    National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Civil works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$2.0 million or less per contract up to US$6.1 million in aggregate would be awarded on the basis of
NCB procedures, since the contracts are small, widely scattered geographically and unlikely to attract
foreign firms. Standard bidding documents agreed with IDA would be used. NCB procedures would (a)
incorporate explicit statements to bidders of qualification, bid evaluation and award procedures; (b) be
advertised widely in local papers, with bid openings in public; and (c) not exclude the participation of
interested bidders from other IDA member countries.
(b)   International Shopping (IS). Bid packages for goods estimated to cost less than US$200,000 up to
an aggregate amount of US$4.3 million may be awarded under IS procedures based on comparing price
quotations from at least three suppliers from at least two countries eligible under the Guidelines in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
(c)    National Shopping (NS). Bid packages for goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.3 million and containing small quantities of a great variety of items, may be
awarded under NS procedures based on comparing prices from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
(d)    Technical Assistance. Contracts for technical assistance would be awarded following the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency." Consulting and training services in the amount of US$2.8 million and US$4.0 million
respectively, would be obtained mostly through consulting organizations. During negotiations the
Govermnent provided a short list of three agencies/institutions for IDA review for procurement of TA for
the VT components. The TA for the AET component would be managed by an NGO well established in



- 12 -
Yemen and having similar international experience (assurances during negotiations para. 6.1(i)).
Consultant appointments above US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals would be subject to
prior IDA view, as would the terms of reference, single source contracts and critical assignments
regardless of value.
4.10   During project supervision, IDA financed contracts for civil works above a threshold of
US$600,000 would be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures. The review process would cover
about 80 percent of the total value of civil works contracts. Contracts or packages for goods above
US$75,000 would also be subject to prior review, covering about 70 percent of the total value of Bank
financed goods. Contracts or packages for services above US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals would also be subject to prior review. Selective ex-post review of awarded contracts below
the threshold levels would be carried out on about 1 in 4 contracts for civil works and 1 in 8 contracts for
goods.
D. Disbursements
4.11   The proposed project would be disbursed over a period of about 8 years in accordance with the
disbursement profile of eight and a half years for the education sector for Yemen as stated in the Standard
Disbursement Profiles of August 1993. All contracts financed by IDA would be denominated in foreign
currency (para. 2.15) (assurances during negotiations para 6.1(0)). Disbursements would be made against:
a)     80% of total expenditures for civil works contracts.
b)     100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs) and 90% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally.
c)     100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for specialist services and
fellowships.
4.12   Disbursements from the proposed credit are expected to take place on average about 4 months
after expenditures are incurred. A disbursement schedule reflecting this and providing a comparison with
the above mentioned profile is shown in Annex 14. The closing date of the project is June 2003, and
disbursements are expected to be completed within four months of the closing date.
4.13   Disbursements against contracts for works less than US$600,000 equivalent, for goods less than
US$75,000, and for services less than US$100,000 (for firms) and US$50,000 (for individuals) would be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), available for examination by IDA missions.
The Government would establish, maintain and operate a special account in the borrower's Central Bank
and IDA would make an initial deposit equivalent to 50% of the amount of the authorized allocation
(US$1.0 million) until about US$1.5 million of the credit has been disbursed. The special account will be
replenished on a monthly basis. Withdrawal applications would be supported by appropriate
documentation.
E. Accounts and Audits
4.14   The GAVTT implementation unit would maintain accounts for the vocational training components
of the project and would prepare all the documentation required by IDA: the MOE's PIU would do the
same for the adult education component. Project accounts, including the special account, would be
audited in accordance with the March 1982, "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank". IDA would be provided within six months of the end of each fiscal year
with an audit report of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request, including a separate opinion
by the auditor of disbursements against certified statements of expenditures. At the same time, IDA
would also be provided with an audit report on the scope and detail of the SDF as IDA may reasonably
request (assurances during negotiations para 6.1(k)).



- 13 -
F. Management and Implementation
4.15   Status of Project Preparation. The proposed project has been prepared by the Government with
the assistance of PHRD grants, and in close cooperation with representatives of relevant government
agencies and the private sector, coordinated by GAVTT. Major policy issues were extensively reviewed
with the Ministers of Labor, Education and Planning. In October 1994, the Federal Chamber of
Commerce and Industry, with IDA assistance arranged a seminar on VT management and financing,
chaired by the Prime Minister and bringing together government officials, vocational educators, private
sector representatives, NGOs and donor representatives. The seminar arrived at a series of policy
recommendations endorsed by both, the Government and private sector which form the basis for the
proposed project.
4.16   The working groups prepared relevant proposals for each sub-component which were reviewed at
appraisal. These documents include: (a) detailed write-ups for each component; (b) technical assistance,
with detailed terms of reference, divided into four packages. A summary of the technical assistance, local
and foreign as well as training and fellowships provided under the project is given in Annex 15; (c)
equipment lists including instructional resources; (d) furniture and rehabilitation requirements for each
center; and (e) monitoring and impact indicators. For details see Implementation Volumes (Contents of
Implementation Volumes are provided in Annex 10).
4.17   Proiect Implementation. Under the supervision of the Minister of Social Services and Labor, the
Chairman of the General Authority for Vocational and Technical Training (GAVTT) would be responsible
for the overall coordination and day to day operations of the project's vocational training components. A
core project implementation unit (PIU) has been established within GAVTT for the duration of the
project. During negotiations the Government provided the Ministerial and GAVTT's decisions to this
effect. The PIU will be staffed with a nucleus of permanent personnel consisting of: a project
coordinator, an accountant, a project architect/engineer, a procurement specialist, a technical assistance
specialist and the necessary support staff (para. 2.15) (assurances during negotiations para 6.1(1)). All the
key staff for this new implementation unit would be trained through the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
before the project becomes effective. The proposed project would adhere to implementation
arrangements agreed upon during the May 1995 CPPR (para. 2.15).
4.18   The Community-based Adult Education and Training component would be coordinated, managed
and implemented by the experienced PIU of the Ministry of Education. A female AET coordinator would
be appointed to manage this component under the supervision of the Vice-Minister of Education
(assurances during negotiations para. 6.1(m)). In addition, a technical committee with representation
from all the ministries involved in AET as well as NGOs would be established to review proposals and
monitor their implementation.
4.19  Implementation Schedule. The project is expected to be implemented over a period of 8 years,
starting April 1996. The project implementation schedule is provided in Annex 16.
4.20   Proiect Supervision and Monitoring. The project would be supervised according to an agreed
plan (Annex 17). Project implementation would be monitored by GAVTT for VT components and by the
PIU of MOE for the AET component. Components would be monitored according to input and output
performance indicators, and evaluated according to quantitative and qualitative adequacy (see
Implementation Volume No.1). A tracer study would be undertaken in 1999 when two batches from
rehabilitated VTCs have graduated. Overall project monitoring would be undertaken annually and reports
discussed with IDA supervision missions.
4.21   Mid-term Review. A mid-term review would be conducted jointly by IDA and the Government
no later than June 30, 1999 and would be based on an initial review conducted by GAVTT (NCVT
Council) and SDF Council, and by the MOE for the AET component.. A key focus of this review would
be the extent of private sector participation in the SDF, its operating procedures and the levels of support
needed by VTCs and private sector supported training (para. 3.5). The objectives and expected outcomes



- 14 -
of the review are given in Annex 18 (assurances during negotiations para 6. 1(n)).
4.22   Impact Assessment. In order to assess the project's impact, baseline data and data obtained
during the life of the project would be compared with post project data. Measures would be taken to
obtain baseline data within the first year of project implementation and IDA would be provided with the
data (assurances during negotiations para. 6. 1(o)). GAVTT (and MOE for the AET component) would
establish baseline data and trends by gathering relevant information from VTCs and the SDF Council,
with regard to each indicator, and analyze and interpret data relevant to identified impact indicators
(Annex 19).
4.23   Proiect Sustainabilitv. Various project features would contribute to sustainability of the project.
They include: (a) institutional development of GAVTT and more autonomy to VTCs (para. 3.2); (b)
greater responsibility to private sector for VT and to communities for AET planning and management; (c)
additional resources for VT financing from the private sector which would reduce public financing of VT
from 100 percent at present to 66 percent by the year 2000 (Annex 8); (d) negligible increase (YR5.4
million) in recurrent budget of the government (para. 4.6); and (e) careful preparation of the project
which takes into account implementation risks for each component (Annex 20).
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1    The proposed project would make a significant contribution to the development of Yemen's
human resources. Major changes in policy and governance structure, already agreed with the
Government and private sector representatives, would result in shared responsibility between Government
and employers. The establishment of the SDF and mobilization of additional resources would lead to a
diversification of financial resources based on contributions from the main beneficiaries of vocational
training, i.e., students, employers and communities. Greater employer participation sought under the
project would enhance the relevance of training and strengthen the financial viability of the system. In
addition, the project would support the qualitative upgrading of VT system through comprehensive quality
improvement measures. By establishing a closer linkage between labor supply and demand, the project
would facilitate the employment of Yemenis in better paid jobs and thus increase family incomes and
reduce poverty. The project would also enhance employment and income generating opportunities for
women by teaching them marketable skills. In the longer term, these changes would provide a strong
basis for possible future expansion of VT through private sector initiatives, both for pre-employment and
in-service training, in line with emerging labor demand.
5.2    Overtime, the project would generate significant economic benefits on a sustained basis,
generating an internal rate of return (IRR) of about 16 percent. A sensitivity analysis has shown this
estimate to be robust (see Annex 22). Additional benefits not quantified in these calculations would
accrue from the training of handicapped persons, and from literacy and health education of women.
B. Risks
5.3    Given the persistence of implementation delays in the last five years, the project implementation
strategy takes into account risk analysis (Annex 20) which has been carefully prepared with the Yemeni
preparation team. The proposed project entails the following potential risks: (a) the capacity of MSSL
and the newly established GAVTT to adequately plan and implement a major reform program for VT in
the face of significant administrative and financial constraints. This risk has been minimized by the
institutional development of GAVTT through active involvement of the entire GAVTT staff during project
preparation, training of GAVTT staff through a PPF, carefully prepared TA package and by prior
agreement on specific policy actions, and would be further minimized through the presence of the German
technical assistance team; (b) the need for close coordination among several government agencies involved
in VT. This risk would be mitigated through project benefits made available to the ministries who follow



- 15 -
policy guidelines approved by GAVTT; (c) slow implementation and disbursement. This risk would be
minimized through the preparation of civil works bidding documents before project effectiveness through
a PPF, early procurement of TA and through other measures detailed in Annex 20; in addition, remedial
actions set out during the May 1995 CPPR are expected to have a positive impact on the implementation
of the proposed project; (d) lack of experience within the MOE to plan and implement community-based
AET initiatives. This risk would be minimized through training of trainers and Directors of AET centers
in participatory approaches, and through technical assistance contract being awarded to a well established
NGO in Yemen; and (e) cofinancing may not materialize. The project would be appropiately downsized
by reducing support to fewer than 15 VTCs.
VI. ACTIONS AGREED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1    During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a)    The policies articulated in the policy statement will be carried out during the implementation
period (para. 3.2).
(b)    The project would support only those centers willing to implement policies formulated by NCVT
and monitored by GAVTT (para. 3.2).
(c)    The income generated by centers offering VT and AET would be retained by the respective
centers within the policy guidelines formulated by the Government (para. 3.5).
(d)    SDF contributions to VTCs would be according to agreed criteria (paras. 3.5 and 4.21).
(e)    Support to training centers for the physically handicapped would be according to agreed criteria
and that all proposals above US$50,000 would be sent to IDA for review (para. 3.14).
(f)    Support to two pilot VTCs would be according to agreed criteria and that proposals would be sent
to IDA for review (para. 3.15).
(g)    Support to AET centers for females would be according to agreed criteria, and would also
include centers operated by NGOs, and that all proposals above US$20,000 would be sent
to IDA for review (para. 3.17).
(h)    Recurrent budget to cover salaries and maintenance of buildings and equipment would be
provided for VTCs and AET centers, and that the information would be made available to IDA
(para. 4.6).
(i)    TA for the AET component would be managed by one of the NGOs well established in Yemen
and having similar international experience (para. 4.9(d)).
(j)    All contracts financed by IDA will be denominated in foreign currency (para. 4.11).
(k)   IDA will be provided within six months of the end of the each fiscal year, as part of audit
requirements, an audit report on the scope and detail of the SDF as IDA may reasonably request
(para. 4.14).
(I)    The core staff of the new project implementation unit established at GAVTT will be maintained
for the duration of the project with the required personnel, functions and authority agreed upon
with the Bank (para. 4.17).
(m)   A female coordinator for AET would be appointed by June 1, 1996, and a technical committee
with representation from concerned ministries and NGOs would be established (para. 4.18).
(n)    A joint mid-term review would be conducted before December, 1999 (para 4.21).
(o)    Measures would be taken to obtain baseline data within the first year of project implementation
and IDA would be provided with the data (para. 4.22).
6.2   Subject to the above conditions, the project would provide a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of
US$24.3 million equivalent to the Government of Yemen.






ANNEX i
Page 1 of 2
.~                                    ~'.L.--,t2J X,)3Ja
. .. .,. ., ,,,:_ . . . . . . . . . .%
~~~~.......    ,    :    :   C,  ,  .1
March 22, 1995
Mr. Caio Koch-Weser
Vice President
Middle East & North Africa Region
The World Bank
Washington D.C.
Subject:    Sector Policy Statement
Dear Sir,
Vocational training in the past has essentially been a responsibility of
the Govemment with virtually no private sector involvement. The results have
not been satisfactory: training programs are of inferior quality, management
structures are weak, and training centers are operating under severe
financial constraints. To overcome these problems and to ensure that the
services delivered are of appropriate quality as well as responsive to actual
skill needs, the Government has accepted a new strategy for vocational
training based on an expanding involvement of the private sector in the
governance and financing of the system while reducing the role of the public
sector in providing these services. More emphasis will also be given to the
training of undprprivileged groups, especially, women, to enhance their
productivity and income generating skills.
To strengthen the capability for sector policy formulation, a National Council
for Vocational Training is being established with majority representation
provided by the private sector. The Council will receive operational support
from  the  General  Authority  for  Vocational- Training. Management
rraa ~~~ a$ ro    r Wl(sv..J1--    Y: ) 0,



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
@s ..>.@.*.bS.@.@.> J....... .  .. .... ... .
.......................... ....:j   g
~~~~LJI                                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~.......................... .....   9
-2-
responsibility for individual training centers will be decentralized and will be
transferred to Local Councils for Vocational Training whose members would
represent employers, labor and local communities. This will give the training
centers more autonomy and flexibility to design programs responsive to
market demand.
New sources of finance will be developed to reduce dependence on
govemment funding. The resources would come from the principal
beneficiaries of vocational training, i.e., employers, students and
communities. The main instrument will be a Skill Development Fund to be
financed by a training levy raised from industrial and commercial firms. The
Fund will be managed by a council in which private sector representatives
have a clear majority. Other resources will be raised through voluntary
contributions by the private sector and local communities, and through
income generated by training centers from selling goods and services in local
markets. Student subsidies will be phased out in two years, and tution fees
will be introduced with scholarships provisions for needy students.
Private sector initiatives to provide pre- and in-service training will be
actively encouraged by the Govemmert
Abdulkader Bajamal
Deputy Prime Minister and
Minister of Planning and Development
rran ~ ~~~__S -L Yoo.   L;-to.     : )AL-            jj)   H



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
DEMAND FOR SKILLED LABOR FROM NEW INVESTMENT
1.    Soon after unification, in May 1992, the Govermnent established an independent (outside of
any ministry) General Investment Authority (GIA), chaired by the Prime Minister, to promote private
investment in the country. The GIA has four branches across the country (serving all governorates),
of which the Sana'a and Aden branches have already started to license and monitor specific
investment projects.
2.    According to officials of the Sana'a branch, non-government investments have been growing
rapidly since 1992. The change is attributable to GIA's active role in informing potential foreign and
local investors about business opportunities in Yemen. Moreover, the open, regulation-free context
within the country has also been instrumental in attracting investments. The attached charts (Charts
L.a and b) show the number of projects licensed by the GIA, the projects that are starting up and
project assets by economic sector (between March 1992 and December 9, 1994).
3.    The Head Office in Sana'a has licensed 543 projects during that period. Of these, 232
projects are already starting up. In addition, the Aden branch has licensed another 670 projects. The
projects licensed by the Sana'a branch alone are expected to generate as many as 28,000 new jobs
within the next few years. No job estimates were available for projects licensed by the Aden branch.
4.    With regard to investment by governorates, Chart 2 shows that most of the projects will be
starting up in Sana'a, followed by Taiz and Aden. Overall, these initial figures suggest a rapidly
growing labor demand in specific sectors and regions of the country.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
Chart 1 a: Number of Projects by
Economic Sectors
on c SectoLicensed
Ch/rt 1 b: Fixed AssetscStarting-up
350
250
/1 5
,       
/ba
5 .
_ A A.....0
JWds                   Arclu              FsSrceurm
^en
Source  GeneraInvesment Athorit
Research and Planning
Hw-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...... ....
.........~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ .f ......
~~~~~_.............  ........_|'   .i.''
100                                    _        _.i'.':_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.__......     ......................,.i-..,i .. 
e.^. ._ !: ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........... ......_
WV ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,3i..'.j. -. -.i.:-jE .........
.....   ..          .-.....
Industry          Agriculture        Fhsheries             Services             Tourism
(Economic Sector)
Chart 1 b: Fixed Assets by Economic
Sectors (IV4arch, 1992 - Decem^ber, 1994)
/   -                                                e    S~~~~~~~~~~~~~tartfn"up
/              .                                            O~~~~~~~~~~E   Ucensed
/   .    ...   .....
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .............
50      --.--.
, 0..::-.i.
Sore               G eneral   vest:ent'uhor-t
U~ ~ Rsac  an .Pla-nningT-    



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
Chart 2: Number of Employees for
Starting-up Projects by Governorates
Total
All Govemorate -
Saada - .D
Ablyan-
Marib-
Hadramot -
Hajah -
Hodeeda -
Lahej -
bb-
Aden
Sana'a-         /     7                 f       f       f 
0     2000    4000    6000    8000   10000   12000   14000
(Number of Employees)
Source: General Investment Authority
Research and Planning



I



ANNEX 3
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
PRESENT ISSUES IN PRE-EMPLOYMENT TRAINING
Oualitv and Relevance
1.    There are major deficiencies in the quality and relevance of VT programs. Curricula are
outdated and renewals that were undertaken in some cases during the late eighties by supervisors and
instructors, with little involvement of the end users of graduates, have resulted in only marginal
modifications. Curricula therefore lack relevance to skill demands of industry and other user systems.
There are no professional units either in GAVTT or in the VTCs, with competence to systematically
evaluate and develop VT curricula, nor is there an information system to gather periodic feedback
from employers and past graduates.
2.    Curriculum details vary widely between VTCs, even for the same trades and such variations
have no relevance to local demands. In most cases the time allocated for practical work is limited,
not providing for adequate hands-on experience. Moreover, trainees do not get the opportunity for
practical training in enterprises and, therefore, lack exposure to real work situations. This further
contributes to the lack of relevance of practical work provided within the VTCs.
3.    Practices with regard to trainee assessment vary considerably among institutions. They are
usually limited to end of year examinations with no continuous evaluation of the performance of
trainees. The criteria for passing also vary among VTCs, and there are no properly defined skills
testing standards at the national level.
4.    While the average teacher-student ratios are adequate in most VTCs (9 for industrial and 16
for commercial), the qualifications of instructors vary considerably among institutions. There are
trainers with engineering degrees, highly knowledgeable in theoretical subjects but lacking in practical
skills, and there are also instructors who are recent VTC graduates with limited industrial/work
experience. The National Institute for Vocational Instructor Training (NIVIT) in Aden offers limited
short-term courses to upgrade and develop the skills of teaching staff. Courses are proposed to be
strengthened with assistance from Germany.
5.    VTC buildings, in general, require extensive renovation. The extent of renovation required
varies between VTCs. Available equipment are either outdated or are in need of major repairs.
Consistently low maintenance budgets have aggravated the situation. In a few VTCs, the recent civil
war has rendered the centers dysfunctional.
6.    These weaknesses in the VTS have contributed to low achievement levels of trainees. The
skills they acquire in the VTCs often do not match market demand with the result that most graduates
cannot compete with expatriates for employment in industry and commerce. A tracer study conducted
by the Germany Advisory Team in 1990 has found that most graduates have turned to the public
sector for jobs. Even there, almost half of the graduates were employed in positions for which they
were not trained. Very few of the graduates have found employment in the private sector or
established their own workshops. To change this situation and to make graduates more competitive in
the labor market, training programs will have to be substantially strengthened and their relevance for
changing market conditions enhanced. This requires close cooperation with potential employers and
the communities that VTCs are expected to serve.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
7.      With the exception of four large private sector companies (Hayel Saeed Group of Companies,
Thabet Brothers, Al-Thawarah Industrial Comples: a group of 20 small companies, and Yemen Hunt
Oil Company), business and industry do not have their own facilities for skill upgradation.
Moreover, the VT system does not offer such opportunities through continuing education programs.
In order to respond to changes in technology, foreign workers with new skills in modern and high
technologies are recruited. There are neither facilities nor training competence within the country to
meet the demand. The lack of opportunities in continuing education and in hi-tech areas is
contributing to stagnation of Yemeni workers and obsolescence of VTC programs.
Access and Eguitv
8.      Coverage of vocational training is seriously handicapped by the small size of the system. Of
the 15 industrial and commercial VTCs, 11 are located in 4 of the country's 18 governorates (Sana'a,
Aden, Abyan, and Hadramout). Another four governorates have one VTC each (Hodeidah, Dhamar,
Taiz and Lahej) while the remaining 10 governorates have no training facilities at all (see Background
Table B in Annex 21). While the geographic distribution of VTCs reflects to some extent differences
in economic activity, it is also clear that the complete absence of training facilities in large parts of
the country restricts investments in these areas, and deprives many potential students from acquiring
skills and competing for higher paid jobs in other parts of the country.
9.      In Yemen, there are no formal estimates of physically handicapped population and their
grouping on the basis of type of disability. According to MSSL there are about 200,000 physically
handicapped who could be rehabilitated through appropriate vocational training. Available facilities in
the country for rehabilitating the handicapped through vocational training are very limited. At
present, there are some 20 centers managed by NGOs, private sector, MSSL and MOH. Training in
these centers faces similar issues of quality, relevance and financial constraints as described above.
10.    In spite of increasing enrollments at all levels of education', overall female participation in
vocational training is low and limited to the commerce and health sectors only. Changes in
socioeconomic values are giving rise to a more positive outlook toward employment of females.
Parental support for female education is on the increase and is more pronounced in females only
centers. Females are therefore increasingly entering modern sectors in which appropriate training
opportunities exist. There is demand for female vocational training in specializations which are
considered culturally appropriate (e.g., food processing, garment making, etc).
Female Participation in Vocational Trainina (1992/93)
Tvpe of VTC                                 Total Enrollment          Male            Female
Industry                                             4,072            4,066               6
Commerce                                               815              330             485
Agriculrure                                             26              23                3
Health                                                 944              484             460
Total                                                5,857            4,903              954
1/     In 1990, illiteracy rates were 74% for women and 47% for men; primary gross enrollment ratio for girls was 37% and
112% for boys in the former Yemen Arab Republic and 67% for girls and 109% for boys in the former Democratic
Yemen. (World Education Report, UNESCO, 1993) Although the Government is making serious efforts to increase
girls education, universal primary education will not be attained for sometime. In addition, there remains a whole
generation of adolescent girls and women which has been excluded from the formal education system.



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
ISSUES IN ADULT EDUCATION AND TRAINING
1.    In Yemen, adult education and training (AET) programs are intended for adults who have not been able
to take advantage of the formal education and training system. The programs are popular among women, who
attend them in high numbers'. There are over 40 non-formal AET centers run by various ministries and
NGOs. The Ministries of Education (MOE), Social Security, Social Services and Labor (MSSL), Agriculture
and Water Resources (MAWR) and NGOs are active in providing literacy, numeracy, and basic income
generating skills for adults. AET programs are intended to increase welfare, productivity and incomes of rural
and urban populations, not reached by formal eduation or training programs.
2.     There are two fundamental drawbacks of AET in Yemen: (i) limited range of programs being offered;
and (ii) poor quality and relevance of training. Related issues include the following:
(a) Ministries responsible for AET centers are unable to meet recurrent costs of the institutions due to severe
financial constraints. Consequently, buildings and equipment have deteriorated, supplies are limited, and
centers are operated on shoestring budgets. Centralized control of finances and staffing of training centers has
resulted in loss of initiative at the institutional level. Government policy does not permit centers to retain
income from training activities. Due to the above reasons, viable income generating activities have not been
implemented. Financial problems have further been aggravated as trainees are exempt from paying tuition fees.
Trainees, however, out of necessity do pay the cost of supplies for their training programs.
(b)    Programs are organized in line with the academic school year. This has resulted in months of inactivity
in the centers. Training sessions are often held during inconvenient hours, such as when women are required to
complete household chores. Moreover, facilities for trainees such as daycare centers, where they do exist, are
open only for a limited number of hours during the day, making it inconvenient for trainees to take advantage of
the facility at other times. Access to training equipment such as typewriters, sewing machines is limited and in
poor condition. Consequently, trainees get limited hands-on experience.
(c)    Trainers lack adequate training in their field of specialty, particularly in adult pedagogy and up-to-date
craftsmanship. This is reflected in the poor quality of goods produced by trainees during training. AET centers
at both the central ministerial and local levels are operated as welfare activities rather than as educational and
skills development facilities. No standards are applied, and teachers are paid only a "token allowance", not a
salary.
(d)    Community participation in identifying local needs, in providing inputs into program design and in
contributing to the upkeep of the centers is absent. As a result of inadequate analysis, training centers tend to
offer courses which are often irrelevant to local needs.
(e)    Women's ability to generate income either through self-employment or through cooperative
arrangements are hampered by absence of skills training in managing productive activities and by lack of access
to capital. Financial institutions offer limited facilities for credit to small entrepreneurs. Appropriate training
for women such as in fundamentals of collective bargaining and joint liability mechanisms to promote access to
capital markets is absent.
3.     The main institutional structures required to upgrade AET centers are already in place. Efforts must be
made to reorient programs to elicit greater community participation, to ensure that AET programs are demand
driven, and they provide life skills literacy and relevant and marketable income generation programs.
1/    In a survey of 24 centers, total enrollment was estimated to be 5,000. Of this number around 90% were females. Source: Mission
estimates.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT FRAMEWORK
Status
Si. #     Major                                                                              Project Strategies            Sub-
Characteristics of         Pre-project              Post-project                                                 project
VTS                                                                                                             Ref.
Planning              Adhoc                   Responsive                - Establishing NCVT and LCVTs                 A. 1
Supply-driven          Decentralized             - LTPACs for VTCs for program
Market-driven             development and monitoring                   A.2
- Core groups in vTCs for curriculum
development and continuing education        B.1
- Management training to VTC heads
and  senior staff                            A.2
- MIS at GAVTT and VTC levels                A.3
- Monitoring by GAVTT                        A.l
2         Institutional Capacity    Low                  High                      - Developing capabilities and structures     B. I
for curriculum development, trainee
assessment, instructional material
development, continuing education and
instructor development at national
(GAVTT) and VTC levels, through
technical assistance
3         Private Sector                                                           - Majority participation in NCVT and
- participation       Negligible              High                      LCVTs                                        A. 1
- training capacity   Low, weak               Moderate                  - Control and operation of SDF               A.4
- LTPACs of VTCs                             A.2
- Motivation for Employee Training
through SDF                                  A.4
4         Target Groups for      Mosdy school passouts   - School passouts         - Continuing education programs of           B.3
VT                                            - Working personnel       VTCs
- Informal Sector        - Private sector operated programs using      A.4
- Females                SDF                                             C
- Adult education and training               B.4
- Area hi-tech center
5         Efficiency             Low                     Moderate/High             - Counseling and guidance, placement
services at each VTC                         A.2
- Management training at all levels          A.2
- MIS at GAVIT and VTCs                      A.3
- Enhanced provision for maintenance
and materials                                A.4
- Motivation through SDF                     A.4
- Continuous development of instructors      B.2
- Demand-based programs and curricula    B. 1, B.2
- In-service training (continuing
education) programs - institution and        B.2
enterprise-based - apprenticeship &          B.3
cooperative programs
6         Finance                Government              Diversified resources:    - SDF                                        A.4
- Government              - Autonomy to conduct continuing
- Skill Dev. Fund        education programs and offer services         A.1
- VTC generated income   - Interaction/participation of private
- Community              sector/community                         A.1, A.4



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
GOVERNANCE OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYSTEM'
1.    Currently, management of the Vocational Training System (VTS) in Yemen is characterized as:
o     having weak linkages with the private sector.
o     lacking adequate procedures for formulating policy and for planning or
monitoring programs.
o     having training programs that are not relevant to private sector demands.
O     being highly fragmented because coordination among the various ministries
responsible for Vocational Training Centers (VTCs) is difficult.
2.    To strengthen the VTS, a management structure should be adopted that will:
o     Ensure involvement of the private sector in the planning and management
process.
o     Provide for development of policies, plans and procedures for management.
O     Provide for more flexibility, autonomy and accountability at the local level.
O     Unify the VTS through formulation of appropriate policies and procedures
applicable to all VTCs.
3.    Structure of VTS: Figure 1 shows the structure of VTS and the interrelationships between
components. The following is a brief description of each component:
3.1    The National Council for Vocational Training (NCVT) provides the overall policy framework for all
VTCs in the Vocational Training System. It also advises the Minister on issues of concern. Membership of
NCVT would comprise: six members representing relevant ministries; Chairman of GAVTT; eight employer
representatives (contributing members of the SDF) nominated by regional Chambers of Conunerce; one
member of the National Labor Association; one member of the Agriculture Federation; one representative of
Yemeni Women's Union; VT expert nominated by SDF Council; Chairman SDF Council; one director of
VTC nominated by GAVTT. Out of 21 members, 13 would belong to private sector and non-government
organizations.
3.2    GAVTT, through its Chairman would provide operational support to the NCVT for carrying out its
mandate. It would prepare national plans for vocational training and monitor policy implementation in a
number of major functional areas which would include:
o     Curriculum development and implementation
o     Institutional and staff development in cooperation with National Institute for
Vocational Instructors Training (NIVIT)
o     Accreditation of programs
o     Job classification and skill assessment
o     Financial and organizational management
o     Planning and research
3.3    The Local Councils for Vocational Training (LCVT) are the local governing boards which would be
responsible for the organizational, administrative, staffing and instructional program needs of the respective
VTCs. Council memberships would be comprised of representatives from both the public and private sectors
I   For details of operational procedures for governance of VTS refer Implementation Volume 1.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
with private sector membership being the majority.2 The Chairpersons would be elected from the
membership and the VTC Director(s) would serve as ex-officio member(s). In cities where there are multiple
VTCs there would be only one LCVT governing the VTCs in the area. LCVTs responsibilities include:
o      Establishing, systematically reviewing and monitoring the VTCs' decision-
making process including instructional and administrative policies.
o      Approving and monitoring VTCs' organizational staffing including
administrative, support and teaching staff appointments, terminations and
salaries.
o      Ensuring VTCs' effectiveness and viability by reviewing and approving annual
operational plans, objectives and budgets.
o      Representing the VTCs externally to the communities served by the VTCs.
3.4    Local Training Program Advisory Committees (LTPACs): The VTCs would establish external
program advisory committees for each program specialization area. These committees would provide
leadership and, because of their diverse membership, a holistic approach to the issue of programs and
program standards.
o      Committee membership would include local participants from business,
industry, labor, public services and other relevant constituencies.
o      Individuals to be appointed to membership would be nominated by the
respective program representative and formally appointed by the Director of
the Center. The LCVT would only need to be informed.
o      The LTPACs would be responsible for conducting program needs
assessments; assessing program relevance; analyzing the curriculum content;
identifying related training areas which need to be developed; assessing
suitability of training facilities and equipment; and providing an external
linkage by informing the community about programs, services and the quality
of its graduates.
3.5     Vocational Training Centers (VTCs) would operate within the policy framework approved by the
NCVT. They would be responsible for, but not restricted to the following tasks:
o      Enrollment and management of students
o      Management of curricula and instructional materials
o      Delivery of instruction
o      Management of equipment and facilities
o      Routine administrative details
4.     Advantages of the Structure
-      It will provide for greater program flexibility, institutional autonomy and institutional
accountability because the VTCs' governance will be at the local level, in accordance with
established national standards and policies.
-      Formal linkages will be established with the private sector, giving the private sector
opportunities to participate in the management of the training system.
-      Courses and Programs offered by the VTCs will be based on market demand.
-      GAVTT can focus on policy formulation, institutional support, organizational management
and monitoring of national standards rather than on routine administration of institutions.
2   LCVT membership would comprise (i) six representatives from contributing employers to the SDF -- 2 from private sector,
2 from public sector, one nominated by the labor union and one nominated by the Govemor; (ii) one nominee of GAVTT;
(iii) one professional, a specialist in VT, nominated by SDF Council; and (iv) the Director of the VTC.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
Figure 1: Vocatonal Training System Governance Structure
of Scisu S.'ziwy,
S    Swia .ss &Labor
.                  ~~~~~~~(?MSSL)
Yocoiond ZSwug Polscy
Policy lpie_utvon
NWiaW Comm1 Gamrmm A12tbxiy for
_wadcow TVs.              vosaim & TSo xcal






ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES FOR THE SKILL DEVELOPMENT FUND
This document sets forth procedures for management of the Skill Development Fund (SDF), as well
as operation of the SDF Council. It also outlines the conditions under which Vocational Training
Centers (VTCs) and employers may qualify for financial support for training.
I.    The Skill Development Fund (SDF)
1.    Overview
1.1   The Skill Development Fund (SDF) is aimed at (a) mobilizing significantly more resources for
both pre-employment and employee training; and (b) reorienting financing from government to private
sources. It is administered by an SDF Council comprised of major representation from contributing
employers. A financing scheme is given in Figure 1.
1.2   Because the Skill Development Fund is a new concept to vocational training in Yemen, a joint
review of progress by the SDF Council, General Authority for Vocational and Technical Training
(GAVTT) and the International Development Association (IDA) will be conducted two years after
implementation with biennial reviews thereafter.
2.    Source of Funds
2.1    Resources required to finance the Skill Development Fund include the following:
(a)    Work Permit Fee of YR5,000 p.a. per non-Yemeni worker.
(b)    Training Levy amounting to one percent of the total wage bill of
registered enterprises.
2.2    Additional financial resources will be required during the initial stages of development of the
SDF to successfully launch the program. It is proposed that the Government and IDA contribute an
amount, to be negotiated, as start-up funds. The Government may want to pay its share in a
lumpsum or stagger the payment over a period of three years.
3.    Coverage
3.1    Registered enterprises with 10 or more employees are to be covered by the Fund. As defined
by the SDF Council from time to time, an employee is any citizen of Yemen who is employed for
wages with an employer, irrespective of whether it is permanent, temporary, or contract employment.
3.2    The types of enterprises to be covered by the Skill Development Fund include:
a.    Industry
b.    Commerce
c.    Other enterprises and services such as hotel and tourism not readily
classified as industry or commerce



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 9
4.    Training levy and work permit assessments
4.1    The training levy, equal to one percent of the total monthly wages, allowances, and bonuses
paid to employees, will be assessed on employers registered under the SDF. Payments should be
made on a monthly basis. The SDF Council Secretariat will be responsible for receiving the fees
and monitoring their collection according to standard auditing and accounting practices.
4.2   The annual work permit fee of YR5,000 will be assessed for each worker who is not a
citizen of Yemen. This fee will be collected by the Ministry of Social Service and Labor (MSSL) at
the time of registration for a work permit. These fees collected by the MSSL will be remitted
directly to the SDF Council Secretariat.
4.3    All contributions to the SDF will be tax exempt.
4.4    Any employer who fails to pay any levy due within such period as may be prescribed is
subject to the following penalties:
a. One month late: Written notice
b. Six months late: Additional 25% of the levy
c. One year late: Additional 50% of the levy
d. Late more than one year: Referred to court for action
5.    Identification and registration of employers
5.1    The sources for identification of qualified employers are:
a.    Listings of employer organizations such as the Chamber of Commerce and
Industry.
b.    Government agency records.
5.2    Once all qualified employers are identified they will be registered and assigned a code number
to be used for all SDF correspondence, payment of training levy, approval of training grants and
eventual disbursement of funds.
6.    Allocation of Funds
6.1    The SDF would be fully operational in about two years. As more firms join, its revenue
would expand. In the initial stage half of the funds collected under the SDF shall be used to help
finance the VTCs. As the revenue in the SDF increases, the share designated for VTCs will be
gradually reduced. The funds are to be used to improve the quality of training by complementing
government financing according to the following priorities:
a.    Maintenance of equipment and workshop facilities;
b.    Purchase of consumable training materials;
c.    Curriculum development;
d.    Retraining and skills upgrading of trainers/instructors/teachers;
e.    Short-term employment of expert teachers from industry.



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 9
6.2    Funds will be distributed to VTCs on the basis of actual expenditures. Each VTC will
submit an annual budget to the SDF Council, and would be entitled to 10 percent of the approved
SDF budget, as an advance to the revolving fund for VTCs. Reimbursement for maintenance of
equipment (for key equipment requiring maintenance contract), and purchase of consumable training
materials - YR 10 million maximum; for curriculum development - actual costs; for retraining and
skills upgrading of trainers/instructors/teachers - actual costs for 15 percent of instructional personnel
per VTC; and, for short-term employment of expert teachers - actual costs. Annual reimbursement for
each VTC shall normally not exceed 30 percent of the salary budget.
6.3    The quality of training will be considered for continued support of VTCs through the SDF.
Quality indicators including test results, student enrollments, attrition, graduation and placement rates
will be monitored carefully by the SDF Council using relevant reports available through the GAVTT.
Also, faculty development, curriculum development, instructional improvement and quality of training
facilities will be considered.
6.4    Any VTC not performing satisfactorily will be so advised. The SDF Council and GAVTT
will develop a plan of action to be implemented by that VTC. One year will be given for correction
and improvement. The grant from the SDF may be reduced until reasonable progress is shown.
6.5    By the end of the third year of the SDF, the Council should develop and adopt a formula for
distribution of funds that is based on unit costs per student and considers pertinent quality indicators
to streamline administrative procedures.
6.6    The remaining 50 percent of the SDF, or more as the fund expands, shall be available to
employers for in-service training. These funds can be accessed by applying to the SDF Council in
accordance with established procedures (see paras. 7, 8 and 9).
7.    Employee Categories
7.1    Categories of employees and level of financial support from the Fund will be as follows:
a. Workers not less than 60% of SDF allocation
b. Supervisors and managers not more than 30% of SDF allocation
7.2    All training and retraining must be viewed as cost sharing between employers and the SDF.
Eighty percent of the costs of approved training programs or activities will be reimbursed by the
Council. Employers may be reimbursed up to the amount of training levy paid for the current year.
8.    Eligibility for funding
8.1    Employers, registered with the SDF Council, having paid the training levy for a continuous
period of six months are eligible to apply for training grants to support training/retraining within
their organization in accordance with policies regarding the award of grants. All trainees participating
in programs supported by the SDF must be employees of members of the SDF and citizens of
Yemen.



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 9
9.    Allowable Reimbursements
9.1    The following is a list of inservice training costs that qualify for support by the SDF:
a.     Course fees for courses approved by the SDF Council;
b.     Remuneration of employers' trainer(s)/instructor(s) prorated for the
duration of approved in-house training program(s), for example, 4 days
or 3 1/2 days. Claims for overtime will not be allowed;
c.     Fees paid to external trainer(s)/instructor(s) for the duration of the training program;
d.     Fees paid to foreign trainer(s)/instructors(s) for the duration of the training program;
e.     Daily allowances which include allowances for food, lodging and internal transport
expenses which are payable to the trainee(s) for the duration of the training
program pursuant to the following exceptions or conditions:
i.    There will be no allowances for in-house training programs;
ii.    External program - where training is conducted within a radius of 50
kilometers of the work site of the trainee, a maximum daily allowance of
YR    per day or the actual rate paid by employers, whichever is the
lesser. No daily allowances will be paid if refreshments and food are
provided by the training providers.
iii.    External program - where training is conducted beyond 50 kilometers from
the work site of the trainee, a maximum daily allowance of YR_ per day or
the actual rate paid by employers, whichever is the lesser. The amount
includes the cost of accommodations which must be supported by receipts;
iv.    Where overseas trainers are engaged, the daily allowance payable shall not
exceed a maximum of YR    per day or the actual rate paid by employers,
whichever is the lesser. The amount includes allowances for food, lodging
and internal transport expenses which are pay to the trainer(s) for the duration
of the training program(s).
f.     Economy rates for travel by air;
g.     Consumable training materials;
h.     Hotel rental for training seminars;
i.    Meal allowances for in-house programs;
j.     Corporate trainers conducting training in company's branches and
subsidiaries.
II.    The Skill Development Fund (SDF) Council
10.   Overview
10.1   The SDF Council shall be responsible for developing and implementing policy for
management of the SDF. It shall have the authority to determine and vary from time to time,
priorities in the level of financial support from the Fund both for the VTCs and for workers'
retraining.



ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 9
11.   Membership
11.1   The SDF Council is composed of fifteen members with the majority representing employers.
The membership should be broadly representative of the nation as a whole, to the extent possible,
including the various geographic and demographic characteristics of the country. Regional Chambers
of Commerce will nominate employer representatives. The national labor union will nominate its
representative. The Minister of Social Services and Labor will appoint and announce the members to
the SDF Council.
11.2   Employer and labor union representatives shall be appointed for fixed three-year terms,
renewable once, with the terms staggered such that after the initial appointments, approximately one-
third of the employer/private sector members shall be eligible for reappointment or replacement each
year. Representatives of the Government agencies and the SDF Secretariat are ex-officio
appointments. Specifically, the composition of the Council shall be as follows:
a.     Nine employers registered with the SDF, each from a different sector, including two
employers from emerging or under-represented sectors;
b.     Three Deputy Ministers, as ex-officio appointments, representing the Ministries of
Planning; Social Services and Labor, and Finance. While these representatives are
voting members of the Council, their primary role shall be to assist and monitor the
conduct of business of the Council in accordance with governmental polices;
c.     One member representing the national labor union;
d.     The Chairman of GAVTT;
e.     The general director of the Secretariat.
12.   Council Procedures
12.1   The Chairman shall be elected from among the employers and the Deputy Chairman from the
general membership of the Council for terms of three years each. Additionally:
a.     The first members selected to the SDF Council shall take office upon their
appointment and thereafter members of the Council shall take office on the first
day of August in the year of their appointment;
b.     The Council shall meet formally each quarter of each year, and more
frequently if needed, with no more than three months between meetings.
c.     A quorum of the Council shall consist of eight members;
d.    A quorum of each standing committee of the Council shall consist of a
majority of the committee members;
e.     A member of the Council who has not been present for three consecutive
meetings of the Council, without reasonable cause or permission in writing of
the Chairman, may be replaced;
f.    The Minister may appoint a person to fill a vacancy which occurs for any reason
among the members of the Council for the remainder of the term of the member.



ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 9
13.     Secretariat
13.1    The purpose of the Secretariat is to provide operational support for carrying out the mandate
of the SDF Council.
a.      Staffing'
i.      Chief executive officer---a qualified , knowledgeable and experienced
professional in vocational training, labor market analysis and
administration
ii.     Accountant
iii.    Secretary
iv.     Other supporting staff
b.      Equipment
i.      Office furniture
ii.     Computer hardware to maintain databases, financial records, etc.
iii.    Appropriate computer software
c.      Cost of Operation
It is estimated that the cost of operation for the SDF Secretariat will
be YR250,000-300,000 per month or YR 3-3.6 million annually. The
initial investment required to establish the Secretariat and the operating
costs should be covered by the money contributed by the Government
and IDA. The cost of operation should not exceed five percent of the
SDF once the fund is established.
III.    Accountability
14.    The SDF account will be managed according to standard accounting practices. The General
Director of the Secretariat will prepare and submit bi-annual financial reports and annual budgets to
the Chairman for the Council's approval.
IV.    Training Schemes
15.    Overview
15.1   Various training schemes are available to enable employers registered with the SDF Council
to access the SDF. The main funding scheme, the Employer-Proposed Scheme in this document, is
described in detail. Brief summaries of two additional schemes, which can be implemented later, are
also presented.
I/   The suggested is the minimum staffmg required and as the SDF expands, more staff would become necessary,
particularly the numbers of accountants and professional staff to assist the Chief Executive Officer. The annual cost
of operations takes this expansion into account.



ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 9
16.    The Employer-Proposed Scheme
16.1   This is the SDF's principal funding scheme. Financial assistance in the form of training
grants can be considered for various types of programs for the retraining and skills upgrading of
employees relevant to the needs of employers under this scheme. Employers are free to submit their
training proposals for the approval by the SDF Secretariat.
a.     Principles of Operation
i.     Training grants are offered to employers as incentives for retraining and
skills upgrading. The grants are not given as subsidies for training;
ii.    Training grants are awarded only for training programs based on
identified employer needs to ensure workplace accountability;
iii.    Prior approval of the SDF Council Secretariat is
necessary. Training costs are reimbursed on a claimed
basis.
b.     Eligibility Criteria for Emplovers
i.     Registered with the SDF Council for at least six months;
ii.    Training programs must be of direct benefit to their business
operations;
iii.    Training programs must be structured and have the following:
- specific training objectives, i.e. the skills to be upgraded and the
knowledge to be enhanced must be specified;
- specific training activities and/or lesson plans;
- specific duration of training;
- qualified instructor(s);
- formal performance assessment of trainees.
iv.    All training expenses incurred on the training program(s) must be borne
by the employer and not the trainee(s);
V.     Trainee(s) must complete the full program/course with a minimum attendance
of 75% and sit for all examinations where training leads to certification.
17.    Modes of Training
17.1   As the Employer-proposed Scheme is a comprehensive training scheme, the following modes
of training are allowed:
a.     EnterMrise-based Training. Employers develop their own in-house
training programs to improve employee skills and enhance productivity.
Enterprise-based training can be provided on-the-job under the guidance of a
trained supervisor or it can be provided off-the-job in employer-owned
training centers.
b.    Institution-based Training.  Training offered by providers such as
public/private training institutions, consultancy firms, industry-managed
training centers, Chambers of Commerce and industry associations.



ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 9
c.     Cooperative-type Training. Large enterprises with excess training
capacities can offer training places to employees of small enterprises.
d.     Other forms of training e.g., apprenticeship, contract
training, etc.
18.   Other Training Schemes
18.1   Various training schemes should be developed to enable employers to participate in support
from the SDF. Brief descriptions of the two most common schemes used by skill development funds
in other countries are presented for consideration.
a.     The Approved Training Program (ATP) Scheme. Training offered through the
Approved Training Program (ATP) Scheme are usually offered by training providers
from the public or private sector. Providers must be registered with the SDF
Council. Employers may select training programs from a list of approved training
courses/programs, are not required to seek prior approval of the SDF Council and
may receive allowable costs on a reimbursement basis.
b.    The Annual Scheme. Employers may develop and use an annual training plan
which is approved by the SDF Council for support from the Fund. The Annual
Scheme is based on the following conditions:
- An annual plan of significant training activities is required;
- The training plan must cover at least 10% of the company's workforce;
- The plan must be systematic;
- The plan must consist of programs relevant to the company's
corporate needs;
- The plan must provide for monitoring and evaluating training effectiveness.
19.   Application Procedures
19.1   To qualify for support from the SDF prior approval of the SDF Secretariat is required.
Applications must be submitted in accordance with the following guidelines:
a.    Applications must be submitted three months before the program is
scheduled to begin;
b.    Applications must be complete;
c.    Applications must be signed by appropriate company officials;
d.     Companies needing guidance in submitting a training proposal may contact the SDF
Secretariat for assistance.
20.   Claims for Training Grants
20.1   Training grants are reimbursed upon completion of approved training programs.
Companies should submit claims for reimbursement on the appropriate forms not later
than two months after the completion of the program.



ANNEX 7
Page 9 of 9
Figure 1: Skill Development Fund - Flow of Funds
Cua* Lr luezyke tmhdag
e,   TramnztgLevy &
3 <CIII771IIIIii)    Wosi Pew= F9
bipt                     WrQtim
aDlocatiox 
(e  |n)Pate T                                                          TiU
FOOTNOTES:
A.       The contrbutions from SDF would cover maintenance of equipment, in4ervice iusnictor taining, cost of tminigg
mteralrs, and remunration for part-fime inatructors from inustry, and would anount to 30% of Gowmmnt
contiution to VTCs (ee Annx 7: par 6.2, and Annex 3).
B.       This would be 50% of the SDF collDction in 1996 and gradually exand to 3590%. Ths pa  would cae anesriieo
entcrprise-based training, appentiecdip traing, approved tnin proamot by th SDF and anl otr poan
employment trining as defind by SDF Council from tinr to time (on A.ex 7: pas 6.6, and Acmx 6).
00       Options for prememployent tain  for studet include taining in VTC&Iwith Prve Trining Provide,.
Options for in-ervice training for etnploywe include siinngl VTCa wit Private Taining Pmoviders I I
Eaterprie Training Units






ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
FINANCING OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING
1.     In 1995, the Government contributed about YR70 million against the total government
spending on education and training amounting to YR7 billion. At present, the operating expenditures
of VTCs are exclusively funded through allocations from the government budget. These allocations
cover teacher/instructor salaries and student subsidies; the latter include stipends of YR150-250 per
month and the costs for boarding and meals. Few funds are available for other items such as training
materials, maintenance or curriculum development. Past investment expenditures have also been
financed by the Government, with contributions from foreign donors; main donor support represents a
long association with Germany, and more recently assistance from the Netherlands and OPEC Fund.
I
2.    In a climate of rapidly growing government deficits, the heavy dependence on budgetary
allocations is causing severe financial constraints for the VTCs. To overcome these constraints and to
establish a sustainable resource base for the VT system, new sources of finance will have to be
developed, relying primarily on the beneficiaries of vocational training, i.e., employers and students.
3.    The proposed project recommends the establishment of a Skill Development Fund (SDF) as
principle instrument to mobilize additional funds for vocational training. Other resources would come
from tuition fees, voluntary contributions by the private sector, and income generated by VTCs from
selling goods and services in local markets. Student subsidies would be replaced by scholarship
provisions for needy students.
4.     The SDF would receive its resources from a work permit fee charged to foreign employees
(YR5,000 a year), and a training levy paid by local firms (one percent of the wage bill). The bulk of
these resources would come from the private sector. A one-time contribution by the Government and
IDA, to be agreed upon during negotiations, would jump-start the program. The SDF would be fully
operational in about two years. As more firms join, its revenue would expand.
5.    Part of the Funds's resources would be transferred to VTCs to cover expenses for training
materials, maintenance of equipment and workshop facilities, curriculum development, retraining of
teachers, and short-term employment of specialized instructors from industry and business. The total
of such transfers should not exceed 30 percent of government expenditure for teacher salaries. All
other resources of the SDF can be claimed by participating firms (mostly private ones) for inservice
training or by private training providers, including future private VTCs. As the SDF raises more
funds, the share of transfers to government-owned VTCs will decline, while allocations for private
sector training will grow rapidly. The following table illustrates the expected flow of funds for the
years 1996-2000.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
Table 1: Mobilization and Use of SDF Resources
(YR million; March 1995 prices)
1996        1997         1998         1999        2000        2003
Work Permit Fee                        40          60           70            75          80          75
Training Levy                                      30           40            50          60          75
Total Resources                        40          90          110           125         140         150
to be used for
Public VTCs                            18          17           17           16          15          14
Private Sector                        20          69            88          103         118         129
Operating Expenses                      2           4            5            6           7           7
6.      Public VTCs would continue to receive budgetary support from the Government for teacher
salaries, student subsidies in the form of stipends, and maintenance of building and equipment. As
non-government resources become available the share of government financing is expected to decline
from 100 percent is 1995 to less than 65 percent by the year 2000. As mentioned above, allocations
from the SDF will be restricted to 30 percent of government expenditure for teachers salaries. Other
sources of finance (see para. 3 above), however, will make up for the shortfall and permit a
substantial increase in non-government financed expenditures (para. 5). The changing pattern of
financing public sector VTCs is shown in Table 2 below.
Table 2: Financing of Public VTCs
(YR million; March 1995 prices)
1995       1997       2000       2003
Government Budget
- VTC Teacher Salaries                            40          40         40         45
- Student Subsidies                                20         18         10         10
- Maintenance 2/                                   10         11         25         25
Sub-Total                                          70         69         75         80
Other Sources
- SDF Allocation 3/                                --         17         15         14
- Income generated by VTCs 4/                      --          1         21         26
Sub-Total                                          _          18         36         40
Total Financing                                     70         87        111         120
1/     Subsidies would be withdrawn and stipends for poor and needy would be introduced.
2/      Figures represent government contributions and those within parenthesis represent total amounts needed
for maintenance. For details see Recurrent Cost Table, Annex 12.
3/      30 percent of Government budget.
4/      Voluntary contributions, income generated by VTCs through sale of goods and services.
7.      The operational guidelines and procedures manual for the Skill Development Fund is given in
Annex 7.



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
SOF: Mobilization of Resources
126      19        197      196       19        000     2OO:
cru~
l~~~~~~~~~~2    l
| - _    -    If. -d-F-- TraigLvy       -       ToWa R      l
Assumptions:
I/      Work Permit Fee: Fees collected from workers: 1996 - 8,000; 1997 - 12,000; 1998 - 13,000; 1999 - 15,000;
2000 - 16,000; and 2003 - 15,000. The number would continue to increase as the VTS cannot meet all emerging
demand.
2/      Trainint Levy: (1) Average salary YR40,000; (2) Employees covered: 1997 - 75,000; 1998 - 100,000;
1999 - 125,000; 2000 - 150,000; and 2003 - 200,000.
SOF: UUlzatn of Rource
(a pecentage of t)
20O           -------
2 1  1_ _       1  ___ _ _ _ _1  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _
19115    1996      199      196        1im       200 20
-                  L_mum  -**
---- R,S,V7Z. R*ow)
P-sWVT    _   ----    r     ab






ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 13
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUB-PROJECT PROPOSALS
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY No. A.l
COMPONENT    VTS Management
SUB-PROJECT TITLE    Institutional Strengthening of GAVTT
TIME-FRAME    October 1996 - October 1997
RATIONALE    * There are few, if any, formal linkages between the vocational training system and
employers;
* The organizational structure for VT is highly centralized, cumbersome and not very
effective or efficient;
* Procedures for formulating policy and planning or monitoring programs are either
inadequate or missing;
* Uniform national standards for managing VTCs are missing;
* Limited autonomy is allowed to the VTCs and there is limited flexibility for
decision-making at the local level.
OBJECTIVE    * To improve formal linkages with employers;
* To strengthen the capacity for GAVTT to: (a) facilitate policy-making; (b) set
national standards for VT; and (c) monitor policy implementation.
OUTCOMES    * Improved employer participation in development of policy for the VTS through the
NCVT;
* GAVTT will enhance its capability for planning and policy development through a
more effective organizational structure;
* Increased capacity for monitoring policy implementation;
* Increased autonomy and flexibility for VTCs in managing and planning instructional
programs.
ORGANIZATIONAL    * MSSL will monitor GAVTT as it makes changes for more effective
ARRANGEMENTS    management of the VTS. GAVTT will be responsible for facilitating the
implementation of the NCVT.
COSTS IN US$ m    Item                                  TOTAL BASE COSTS
Civil Works
TA                                     0.04
Equipment/Goods                        0.20
TOTAL                                  0.24
MONITORING &    * MSSL will monitor the reorganization of GAVTT as well as important
EVALUATION    activities and outcomes regarding the organization and implementation of NCVT.
BENEFITS    * National norms and policies will refect input from employers and training programs
will reflect labor market demands.
RISKS    * Failure of GAVTT to follow through with implementation of NCVT as proposed.
SUSTAINABILITY    * Simultaneous reforms being introduced in all facets of the VTS will contribute to
I sub-project sustainability.



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 13
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY No. A.2
COMPONENT    VTS Management
SUB-PROJECT TITLE    Management of VTCs
TIME-FRAME    October 1995 - October 1996
RATIONALE    * VTCs have very little autonomy or flexibility for management at the local level;
* There are few formal linkages with local employers and the community;
* Policies and procedures for maintaining instructional program relevance are minimal
or missing;
OBJECTIVES    * To provide more flexibility and autonomy in management of VTCs without
sacrificing accountability;
* To improve relevance of training through creation of formal linkages with local
employers and the community;
* To provide a mechanism for review of existing programs and development of new
programs on a regular basis.
OUTCOMES    * A Local Council for Vocational Training (LCVT) established for each VTC;
* Policies and procedures developed to guide LCVT members and VTC members and
VTC administrators;
* Local Program Advisory Committees (LTPACs) established for each program
specialization area in all VTCs;
* Policies and procedures developed to guide LTPACs, VTC administrators and
program coordinators.
ORGANIZATIONAL    * Government to issue a decree authorizing establishment of LCVTs. GAVTT
ARRANGEMENTS    will identify the first six VTCs to establish LCVTs and LTPACs. These will be
created within the first year of project implementation. Within two years, GAVTT
will assist the remaining VTCs in establishing LCVTs.
COSTS IN US$ m    Item                                  TOTAL BASE COSTS
Civil Works                            --
TA                                     0.04
Equipment/Goods                        --
TOTAL                                  0.04
MONITORING &    * GAVTT will be responsible for monitoring key indicators of progress during
EVALUATION    development and implementation of LCVTs and LTPACs.
BENEFITS    * Increased autonomy and flexibility of management and program planning at the
VTC level. Formal linkages established with local labor market. Relevant training
programs.
RISKS    * Failure to establish LCVTs and LTPACs; inability to work effectively with LCVTs;
failure to follow recommendations of LCVTs or LTPACs.
SUSTAINABILITY    * Appropriate training for GAVTT staff, VTC Directors and Council members will
contribute to sustainability.



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 13
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY No. A.3
COMPONENT    VTS Management
SUB-PROJECT TITLE    Management Information System for VTCs
TIME-FRAME    January 1996 - June 1997
RATIONALE    * VTCs do not have the capability to collect and analyze meaningful management
information on a timely basis;
* There is limited capacity for maintaining comprehensive records of enrollments,
graduations, payroll, personnel, and property;
* A system is needed to collect and compile labor market data to be used for
planning training programs.
OBJECTIVES    * To install a system that will accommodate various kinds of data including that
related to students, classes, testing personnel, payroll, inventory, budgets, and
wordprocessing;
* To install a system that can be used to manage local labor market data for program
planning purposes;
* To plan and install a computerized data management system, in each of 15 VTCs,
that can be used and maintained with minimal additional personnel.
OUTCOMES    * Institutional capacity to collect, input, and analyze local labor market data that can
be used for training program planning.
* Computer hardware and software installed in each of 15 VTCs with selected
personnel trained to use the common commercial software programs relating to
routine administrative tasks.
ORGANIZATIONAL    * A professional committee, composed of members from GAVTT, the VTCs
ARRANGEMENTS    and employers would be appointed by GAVTT to assure the development of common
data sets for all VTCs.
COSTS IN US$ m    Item                                  TOTAL BASE COSTS
Civil Works
TA                                     0.04
Equipment/Goods                        0.38
TOTAL                                  0.42
MONITORING &    * GAVTT in cooperation with the appointed data set committee will be responsible
EVALUATION    for implementation.
BENEFITS    * Increased autonomy and flexibility of management and program planning at the
VTC level. Formal linkages established with local labor market. Relevant training
programs.
RISKS    * Failure to establish LCVTs and LTPACs; inability to work effectively with LCVTs;
failure to follow recommendations of LCVTs or LTPACs.
SUSTAINABILITY    * Appropriate training for GAVTT staff, VTC Directors and Council members will
contribute to sustainability.



ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 13
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY No. A.4
COMPONENT    VTS Management
SUB-PROJECT TITLE    Skill Development Fund
TIME-FRAME    October 1996 - October 1997
RATIONALE    * Present low level of funding of VTCs has led to low quality training;
* The VTS has a very narrow financing base; there is no cost recovery in VTCs and
students receive relatively generous subsidies;
* There are no employer and community contributions to the VTS;
* Employee training is necessary to raise productivity and competitiveness of
enterprises and the training system needs to become more responsive to changing
labor market needs.
OBJECTIVES    * To mobilize significantly more resources for both pre-employment and employee training;
* To reorient financing of training from government to private sources.
OUTCOMES    * Increased financial resources to assure the financial stability of VTS and improved
quality of training;
* Financing reoriented from government to private sources;
* A VTS that is more responsive to changing labor market needs.
ORGANIZATIONAL    * A Skill Development Fund (SDF) Council, with majority employer representation and
ARRANGEMENTS    independent of the Government, would be organized to manage the SDF; an executive directorate
would be created to manage the day-to-day operation.
COSTS IN US$ m    Item                            TOTAL BASE COSTS
Civil Works                      --
TA                               0.06
Equipment/Goods                  0.21
Operating Expenses
(against SOEs)                  1.60
TOTAL                             1.87
MONITORING &    * The SDF Council will need to be organized on an interim basis to begin developing operational
EVALUATION    guidelines and to monitor salient activities. The SDF will be subject to biennial reviews involving
the Government, IDA and GAVTT once it is established.
BENEFITS    * Funding for vocational training will be stabilized; more employers will be involved with training
and the quality of training will be improved.
RISKS    * Fund fails to materialize as expected due to lack of participation from employers invited to serve
on the governing board. This risk would be mitigated through appropriate legislations.
* Employers fail to use SDF training allocation because of lack of information; to be mitigated
through information campaign and through newsletter.
SUSTAINABILITY    * A general understanding of the purpose of the plan among employers; a well-developed
marketing plan and proper management will contribute to sustainability.



ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 13
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY NO. B. 1
COMPONENT   Quality Improvement
SUB-PROJECT TITLE   Curriculum Development including Trainee Assessment and Instructional material development
TIME-FRAME   June 1996 - September 2000
RATIONALE   * Curricula are not relevant to the present skill requirements in Business & Industry.
* Demand for employment is met by recruiting foreign workers.
* Due to non-involvement of user systems and non-adoption of scientific models for Curriculum
review, curricula are static.
* The absence of performance standards and vaiying procedures for skills testing have
contributed to wide variations in graduation rates between trades and VTCs.
* Trainers and trainees lack instructional materials.
* Very little expertise at VTCs or at central level to develop and sustain a dynamic and
responsive system of curriculum development.
OBJECTIVES   * To institutionalize a dynamic system of curriculum development, responsive to the needs of
Yemeni business & industry;
* To develop performance standards and skills testing procedures and mechanisms for
continuously improving the reliability and validity of test procedures; and
* To develop instructional materials, including AV material, relevant to the needs of trainees
and trainers, ensuring their availability to all teachers and students.
OUTCOMES   * Existing 14 programs and 8 new programs developed to suit the needs of user
systems, with provision for special local needs through VTC based curriculum
development for a portion (20 to 30 percent) of the curricula.
* Curriculum development and periodic curriculum renewal capabilities developed at the
National, (Regional) and VTC levels.
* Performance standards and skills tests developed for all existing and new programs.
* Capability to develop, administer and review tests developed within GAVTT (national)
and at VTC levels.
* Instructional materials (print & audiovisual) for use by trainers and trainees
developed, field tested and made available to trainers and trainees, for all programs.
ORGANIZATIONAL   * GAVTT would identify three professionals interested and willing to contribute to the
ARRANGEMENT   accomplishment of the outcomes: one each in Curriculum Development, Testing of trainees
and Instructional material development, who would be responsible for implementation of
Project activities.
COSTS IN US$ in m   Item                                         TOTAL BASE COSTS
TA                                              1.33
Equipment/Goods                                 0.26
Others                                          0.10
(Research Grant -- included in the project under SDF)
TOTAL                                           1.69
MONITORING &   * NCVT will monitor implementation of salient activities and outcomes,
EVALUATION  e.g. number and quality of curricula, performance standards, skill tests, instructional
materials produced, staff trained at the VTC and national levels.
BENEFITS   * Quality & relevance of the curricula and graduates will improve.
RISKS   * Poor Curriculum implementation; Inadequate teacher orientation.
SUSTAINABILITY  * Simultaneous reforms being introduced in all facets will contribute to sustainability.



ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 13
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY NO. B.2
COMPONENT   Quality Improvement
SUB-PROJECT TITLE   In-service training of Trainers
TIME-FRAME  October 1996 - December 2002
RATIONALE  * VTC theory teachers and practical instructors have very little practical experience or
training.
* Lack of in-service training and development opportunities in the VT system.
* Trainee-trainer ratio is about 9 for industrial VTCs and 16 for commercial VTCs; there are
surplus trainers in some VTCs (Refer Background Table C, Annex 21).
* Most trainers lack competence in instructional techniques; theory teachers lack
practical skills and instructors lack knowledge of relevant theory and have little
exposure to Industrial situations.
OBJECTIVE  * To establish a system of In-service development for Vocational Trainers.
OUTCOMES   * All trainers in VTCs acquire pedagogical expertise through facilities available in the country, in
NIVIT supported by the German Government.
* All trainers acquire skills in their respective trades, both conventional and modern/
advanced areas, in Trainer Development Centers (TDCs) in three identified VTCs, using
Competency-based modular approach.
* All trainers acquire industrial experience through practical experience in nearby
industries; training organized by TDCs/concerned VTC and jointly supervised by GAVTT and
Industry personnel.
* Nine selected trainers trained to be trainers of trainers, in identified foreign institutions, in skill
development, using competency-based approaches.
* The three VTCs having TDCs, provided with 2 additional classrooms each and required AV
equipment. One vehicle (van) provided to each of the VTCs having TDCs.
ORGANIZATIONAL  * GAVTT would coordinate with German Technical Agency -- GTZ, placements for in-service
ARRANGEMENTS  training in NIVIT, for industrial internships and overseas training of trainers. GAVTT would
determine the organization and coordination of activities of the three TDCs.
COSTS IN US $ in m    Item                                  TOTALBASE COSTS
Civil Works                               0.15
TA                                         1.48
Equipment/Goods                           0.54
TOTAL                                     2.17
MONITORING &   * GAVTT will appoint professional committees to monitor implementation of salient
EVALUATION  activities and programs. e.g. number of trainers trained, their performance on-the-job;
number of industrial internships and the quality of training in industry.
BENEFTIS   * Improved quality of instruction and therefore the quality of trained trainers would
improve.
RISKS   * VTCs may not provide facilities and resources required for applying competencies
gained through training.
SUSTAINABIL1TY  * Continuation of in-service training and follow-up will contribute to sustainability.



ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 13
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY NO. B.3
COMPONENT   Quality Improvement
SUB-PROJECTTITLE   Developing a System of Continuing Education
TIME-FRAME  September 1996 - March 2000 and continuing
RATIONALE  * Except in the few companies which have their own training centers providing in-
service training to their personnel, by and large, business & industry do not have
facilities to retrain or upgrade skills of their workers. Consequently, Yemeni workers
stagnate and foreign workers with relevant and updated skills are recruited to the
workforce.
* VTC graduates have no opportunities to update their skills.
* VTCs could optimize the utilization of resources (equipment & machinery) by
offering Continuing Education programs designed to meet the specific needs of
personnel in business and industry. The Skill Development Fund established through
the project would fund such programs for the mutual benefit of Industry and the
VTCs.
* Teachers and instructors can also upgrade their skills in new technologies.
OBJECTIVES  * To develop a system of Continuing Education for the benefit of employees of
business and industry, trainers, and graduates of VTCs.
OUTCOMES   * Each VTC would have one of its trainers functioning as a Continuing Education
Manager (CEM), within the VTC, organizing tailor-made programs for retraining,
upgradation of skills of employees of business & industry; generating income for the VTC.
* VTC Trainers would upgrade their skills through joint programs organized,
cooperatively by VTCs and Industry.
* The person responsible for Continuing Education in GAVTT and CEMs of VTCs
would acquire expertise in Curriculum Development for CE programs, course design and
marketing of programs.
ORGANIZATIONAL  * GAVTT would identify one professional responsible for promoting Continuing
ARRANGEMENTS   Education programs in the VTCs and arrange for his training (foreign), as well as for the
training of CEMs of VTCs. GAVTT would facilitate and monitor the organization of CE
programs by the VTCs.
COSTS IN US$ in m   Item                                        TOTAL BASE COSTS
TA                                             0.23
Equipment/Goods                                0.20
Others                                         0.10
(Revolving Fund -- included in the project under SDF)
TOTAL                                           0.53
MONITORING &   A professional committee constituted by GAVTT, with equal representation from
EVALUATION   business & industry will monitor the progress in each VTC, the expertise gained by
the CEMs and its application.
BENEFITS   * Mutual benefits to VTCs and Industry, in improving skill levels of their employees
and thereby improving their productivity.
RISKS   * VTCs' regular programs could be affected because too much attention is diverted to
income generating CE programs.
SUSTAINABIULTY  * The generated income invested in infrastructure and relevant equipment for CE
programs would contribute to sustainability.



ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 13
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY NO. B.4
COMPONENT   Quality Improvement
SUB-PROJECT TITLE   Establishing an Area Hi-Tech Training Center'
TIMiE-FRAME  October 1996 - May 1998
RATIONALE  * Yemeni Industry is introducing High Technology in operations; there are no
training courses/facilities to upgrade skills of existing personnel in the use of Hi-Tech
equipment and machinery. Expatriate workers with skills in hi-tech are therefore
recruited.
* VTC instructors have no access to skill development programs in Hi-Tech to meet
their Continuing Education (CE) needs.
OBJECTIVES  * To establish a Hi-Tech Training Center, which would cater to the Continuing Education needs
of personnel working in Industry and for Trainers in VTCs, based on a feasibility study.
OUTCOMES   * A Hi-Tech Training Center, operating on cost-recovery basis, established with a
capacity to train 20 persons at a time, through day-release, block release and short-
term programs for skill development and maintenance of hi-tech equipment.
* 6 Master trainers trained in the hi-tech areas (mentioned above) and relevant instructional
technology through foreign fellowships.
* Director and Deputy Director of the Center trained in Continuing Education
Management with skills for needs-assessment, program design, marketing and course
pricing.
ORGANIZATIONAL  The Center would be autonomous with a Board of Management. A Chairman would be
nominated by the Government. The Board would have representation from government, and
industry/employers intending to modernize and introduce hi-tech/ or have already introduced hi-
tech in their operations. The Board will start functioning from the detailed planning stage. The
PIU will execute the Project operations.
COSTS IN US$ in m   Item                                         TOTAL BASE COSTS
Civil Works                                     1.20
TA                                              0.18
Equipment/Goods                                 1.29
Others                                          0.05
(Revolving Fund -- included in the project under SDF)
TOTAL                                           2.72
MONITORING &   * GAVTT will monitor implementation of salient activities and outcomes, e.g. Planning,
EVALUATION  number of Master trainers trained and the quality of training; Number trained in
Continuing Education Management; Completion of Building Construction; Procurement of
Equipment; Number and quality of programs offered etc.
BENEFITS   * Availability of skilled workers in hi-tech within the country.
RISKS   * The pace of modernization slowing down in industry.
SUSTAINABILITY  * Support from business & industry; its operation on a cost-recovery basis will contribute to
sustainability.
I/ This sub-project has been included at the specific request of the private sector, and is would be contingent upon IDA review of a
feasibility study.



ANNEX 9
Page 9 of 13
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY NO. B.5
COMPONENT   Quality Improvement
SUB-PROJECTTITLE   Strengthening Selected VTCs
TIME-FRAME   October 1996 - September 1998
RATIONALE  * Programs in conventional trades are unevenly distributed amongst the VTCs, with no
relevance to the needs of geographical areas.
* There is a dire need to offer new programs to cater unmet needs.
* Most training equipment in the Industrial VTCs are out-dated and not in operation,
having depreciated/outlived their normal life-span.
* Absence of maintenance budgets and facilities have aggravated the problem.
* Most buildings are in a poor state and require extensive renovations.
* Deficiencies have been aggravated by the damages caused during the recent war.
Note: Private and public sector training centers offering in-service training, and
Agriculture and Health VICs being supported by other government departments are
excluded from the sub-component.
OBJECTIVE   * To strengthen selected VTCs for improving access and relevance to the manpower
needs of Business and Industry through strengthening physical facilities and creating
additional facilities for new programs to be offered.
OUTCOMES   * Existing programs, presently operating only in some VTCs restructured to improve
relevance, and offered in some other VTCs, thereby creating 500 new training slots.
* 8 new programs offered in VTCs, selected on the basis of local needs, creating 500
new slots to improve access.
* Existing buildings renovated and additions made as necessary in 15 VTCs for 4500 training slots.
* Equipment including AV instructional equipment provided per standard requirements.
ORGANIZATIONAL   * The PIU will undertake the procurement of equipment and construction of buildings per standard
ARRANGEMENTS   practice.
COSTS IN US$ in m   Item                           TOTAL BASE COSTS
Civil Works"                      11.59
TA                                0.23
Equipment/Goods                   13.92
TOTAL                             25.75
1/ Designs, estimates and bidding documents are under preparation through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
MONITORING &   * GAVTT will monitor implementation of the salient activities and outcomes.
EVALUATION
BENEFITS   * Quality and relevance of training will improve.
SUSTAINABILITY   * The multi-faceted effort encompassing curriculum, teachers, instructional materials
and student assessment would contribute to sustainability.



ANNEX 9
Page 10 of 13
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY NO. B.6
COMPONENT   Quality Improvement
SUB-PROJECT TITLE   Rehabilitation of the Physically Disabled through Vocational Training
TIME-FRAME   January 1997 - December 2002
RATIONALE   * Government policy envisages social and economic reintegration of disabled persons
through provision of effective vocational rehabilitation services and creation of
employment opportunities; at present there are about 19 VTCs for the handicapped.
* Implementation of government policy requires enormous resources.
* VT for handicapped in separate organizations segregates the disabled from
mainstream work force; community-based rehabilitation integrates the disabled into
normal, productive and purposeful lives in respective communities.
OBJECTIVE   * To support sub-projects formulated by governmental/non-governmental voluntary
agencies for VT and rehabilitation of the physically handicapped on the basis of explicit
criteria.
OUTCOMES   * Increase in the number of vocationally trained physically handicapped persons,
integrated into the community.
ORGANIZATIONAL   * A sub-project management committee would be responsible for inviting
ARRANGEMENTS   proposals, evaluating proposals, approving sub-projects and facilitating development of sub-
projects.
COSTS IN US$ in m   Item                          TOTAL BASE COSTS
Civil Works                      0.25
TA                               0.16
Equipment/Goods                  0.74
TOTAL                             1.15
MONITORING &   * GAVTT will monitor the implementation of approved sub-projects through
EVALUATION   committees constituted for this purpose for each program. The committees will have a
high degree of representation.
BENEFITS   * A number of physically handicapped will join mainstream economic activity.
Successful models for replication would emerge.
RISKS   * Some of the models may not be successful due to poor response.
SUSTAINABILITY   * Projects would be selected and approved; one of the major criterion being program
sustainability and hence the sub-projects could be expected to be sustainable.



ANNEX 9
Page 11 of 13
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARY NO. B.7
COMPONENT             Selective Expansion
SUB-PROJECT TITLE New Pilot Vocational Training Centers -- Two
BACKGROUND
Rationale
Available training facilities are concentrated in 4 govemorates. Some 14 regions/
govemorates in the country lack training centers. The issue is one of access to training, and lack of support
would reflect lact of government support for regional development. Furthermore, in terms of gender equity
there is a pressing need to expand the system. Certain governorates have no training centers for over a one
hundred mile radius. Students are poor and cannot afford to travel to those govemorates which do have training
centers. There is demand for skilled Yemeni workers, and currently the training system would be too small
number to meet the demand.
There is increased investment activity in the petroleum and natural gas sectors. This has
given rise to demand for skilled workers. Foreign investors in these sectors tend to bring their own skilled
labor to work in these industries. Increased economic activity in these sectors has given rise to demand for
skilled labor in ancilliary industries. The Government must step up its efforts to respond to the inccreased
demand which cannot be handled by the current system. Limited expansion should be supported in those
govemorates that have demonstrated evidence of potential investment, economic activity, and skilled manpower
demand.
PREPARATION OF PROPOSALS
It has been agreed that two additional centers would be established as pilot vocational
training centers reflecting emerging trends in vocational training. These centers would be selected from the six
centers already appraised by IDA. The selection criteria would include: (i) evidence of demand for skilled
labor in the area served by the vocational training center; (ii) government's willingness to assume responsibility
for covering basic recurrent costs (mainly teachers' salaries and student subsidies); (iii) preference for
vocational training centers for whose establishment there might be availability of private sector contribution; (iv)
training programs designed in close cooperation with local employers ensuring that skills taught are in demand,
and according to emerging trends for vocational training i.e., cooperative programs, enterprise-based programs
and apprenticeship programs as appropriate; and (v) Local Councils for Vocational Training (LCVTs)
established for each VTC. Prior IDA approval would be obtained before final selection of the new centers.
TIME-FRAME April 1996 - December 1998
COSTS IN US$ m US$5.5 million.



ANNEX 9
Page 12 of 13
COMPONENT SUMMARY No. C
COMPONENT            Adult Education and Training
TIME-FRAMEE          October 1996 - December 2002
RATIONALE           * Despite poor conditions of most AET centers (total -- about 42), they continue to be
popular as they are the only opportunity for many girls and women from traditional
families to become literate, acquire knowledge about home economics and training in
basic skills for income generating activities. AET is a system through which the
government can reach an important segment of society that cannot be reached otherwise.
This has major implications for improving the health, nutritional status of girls and
women and their families, and for imparting knowledge about family planning to manage
fertility.
OBJECTIVE          * To support AET centers to restructure their programs and improve their management,
to better serve community needs and to educate girls and equip them with better life
skills and to train them in income generating activities. To support the identification of
mechanisms to improve savings mobilization and access to financial services which
would facilitate the translation of newly acquired skills into income generating activities.
OUTCOMES           * New curriculum for literacy training which includes life skills (basic health, nutrition,
family planning, environment, legal, bookkeeping, functional writing and reading and
religion).
* Trained trainers on life-skill literacy programs, participatory approaches and income-
generating skills.
* General institutional strengthening of 42 centers in better management of AET
centers, increased capacity for fund raising and marketing, increased awareness of credit
alternatives.
* Reorientation of 4 centers during the first phase with improved literacy programs and
community-identified skills training programs. If found to be successful, 20 additional
centers would be reoriened in the same manner over the remaining project
implementation period.
ORGANIZATIONAL  * PIU of MOE to coordinate project activities and to manage funds and allocate them
ARRANGEMENTS    based on proposals presented by centers, that meet agreed criteria. A technical
committee represented by a member from each of the ministries with AET centers and
one from NGOs. Approval for provision of funds to individual centers will be made by
the Higher Council based on the recommendations of the technical committee. A
female national coordinator will be appointed to work within the PIU of MOE to
coordinate project activities and chair the technical committee. An NGO with
established presence in Yemen and experienced in similar activities internationally will
be subcontracted to support the National Coordinator in managing the TA component
and monitoring the project process.
COSTS IN US$ in m   Item                            TOTAL BASE COSTS
Civil Works                      0.84
TA                                1.80
Equipment/Goods                  3.33
TOTAL                             5.99
MONITORING &          PIU of MOE, through the technical committee, will monitor the implementation of the
EVALUATION            sub-project.



ANNEX 9
Page 13 of 13
BENEFITS            * Some 5,000 women will become literate in life-skills and 5,000 women will acquire income
generating skills in the course of the project. This in turn will improve their own welfare as well
as that of their familites.
RISKS           * Inability of both government and staff of AET center programs to change the top- down
welfare approach to a bottom-up community-defined approach which will enable the centers to be
sustainable.
* Inability of centers to retain trained female staff if salaries remain low -- the trained teachers
would receive a salary comparable to primary school teachers.
* Lack of access to capital which may prevent the translation of newly acquired skills into
income generating activities.
SUSTAINABILlTY    * The community-based approach would ensure community ownership, and this in turn
will ensure sustainability of the component.






ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION VOLUMES
Table of Contents
Implementation Volume I (Overall Project Implementation)
I.    Introduction
II.    Policies and Procedures for General Authority for Vocational and Technical Training
(GAVTT)
III.   Skill Development Fund
IV.   Implementation Schedules
V.    Supervision Plan
VI.   Monitoring Indicators
VII.   Mid-term Review
VIII.  Project Impact Indicators
IX.   Cost Tables
X.    Equipment Lists
XI.   Aide-memoires:
Identification Mission (February 1994)
Preparation Mission I (April 1994)
Preparation Mission II (October 1994)
Pre-appraisal Mission (December 1994)
Appraisal Mission (March 1995)
Implementation Volume II (Sub-project Proposals)
A.    MANAGING AND FINANCING THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYSTEM
A. I   Institutional Strengthening of General Authority for Vocational and Technical Training
(GAVTT)
A.2   Improving Management of Vocational Training Centers
A.3   A Management Information System for Vocational Training Centers
A.4   Establishing a Skill Development Fund
B.    QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
B. 1   Strengthening Institutional Capacity for Curriculum Development including Trainee
Assessment and Instructional Material Development
B.2   In-service Training of Trainers
B.3   Developing a System of Continuing Education
B.4   Establishing a Hi-tech Training Center
B.5   Strengthening Selected Vocational Training Centers
B.6   Rehabilitation of the Physically Handicapped through Vocational Training
B.7   Selective Expansion: Two Pilot Vocational Training Centers
C.    ADULT EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR WOMEN



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
Implementation Volume III (Technical Assistance Package)
1.    Introduction
II.    The Project
III.   Technical Assistance Design
IV.   Terms of Reference for Management & Financing of VTS (Package A)
V.    Terms of Reference for Quality Improvement (Package B)
VI.   Terms of Reference for AET for Women (Package C)
VII.   Attachments:
Summaries of TA Requirements
Implementation Volume IV (Standard Bidding Documents)
1.    Procurement of Works (Smaller Contracts) through International Competitive Bidding
2.     Sample Prequalification Documents
3.    Sample Bid Evaluation Report Format
4.    Procurement of Works (Lump Sum Contracts) through Local Competitive Bidding
5.    Procurement of Works (Smaller Admeasurement Contracts) through Local Competitive
Bidding
6.    Letter of Invitation for Consultants (with Price)
7.    Letter of Invitation for Consultants (without Price)



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN - VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table. Present and Proposed Programs and Annual Intake Capacities of Project Vocational Training Centers
INDUSTRIAL
COMMERCE            Tid &
Si.     V-iin                               Ek~WtEh0i~r.~c                                                                         M.h.,dc.1                                                              B0tddhg                         Othet                                T..t       T.et
I       T-Ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (H I)
E I       E2       E3          E4         0           6        M I      M 2      M 3      M4          M S      M6       M7         M 6       M9         MI 1        DI       82         B3       B4         01        02         Cl         C2
I       Ad.n            60                  (20)        25        25                    60      40                                      60                                                   60       40        60                                                                       430
Mam-                                                                                                                                                                                                        (20)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(0
2       Ala             =          30                                                                     30                   30       30                                                   30       30         30       (20)                                       2=0
Khoea.k-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (0
3       ACO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               90        90 Io 1O
4       Lawt           25                                                   (20)                                                       25                                                   25                  25      I=(
Botndty.                                                                    I                                                                                                                                                                                                    (20)
5       A l                                                                                                       30                    30       (20)                                                                                                                                     60
A=kn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (20)
6       Abyn            25                              (20)                                                                            25                                                   25                  25                             I_O
Zi1 ib0                           I 24  __                                                                                      24                                                                                                                                                (20)
7       Hamdao          20                  (20)        (20)      (20)       (20)       32                        (20)                  20       (20)      (20)                  (20)        20       (20)       20                                                                       112
KItn.t                                                                                                  ______(lao)
B       Had- ta0s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   so                    130
Vo..
9       Hadtonn                                                                                                   40                                                                                                                                                                     40
say.tt_____
10      S4 a 2          24                                                              24                                              24                                                   24       24        24       (20)                                                            144
Baghdad  I  I                I                                                                                                                                                                I                                                     . ~~~~~~~~____(20)
15      Sm'.            25                  (20)        (20)      (20)-      (20)               25                                      25                 (20)       (20)      (20)         2)       25        25                             (20)                                       IO0
WMItb.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (160)
12      S-n..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (00)       (60)
Hote &
13      Dh-.A           ( 25                (20)        (20)                            12       12               (20)                  25                                                   (20)    (20)       12                                       (20)       (20)                 26
-       -          -                                         -        -                                      -         -          -                     -                   -                                                                                 (140)
14      Hrt)idhI        25                  (20)        (20)      (20)                  25      25                (20)                  25      (20)                                         2.5     (20)       25                                                                        30
-                                                                     -             I    -I                                       -         -           -          -                                                                                          (1120)
IS      Tuez            (20)               (20)                   (20)                          25                                     (20)                           (20)                            25        25                  (20)                                                 75
TTL     229       30       (120         5          50)         )        133     127      30       70          30       29       (0)       (4)         4)         4)           54     144        271 r (40)           (20)     (20)       110        ISO       (60        2517
(20)     (lOS)     (80)                                            ~~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(60)  (20)                             (20)     (60)                                               (20)       (2)(gm0
Note:         Number in paranithesis indicate proposed intake capacities.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pZ
+     Shop with most equipment exist already.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0Q
O >4



Table. Present and Proposed Annual Intake Capacities of Proiect Vocational Training Centers
LEGEND
El    General Electric Trades            01    Lab Assistants (Chemical)
E2    Electrical Installation            02    Offset Printing
E3    Electronics
E4    Radio & TV                         Ml   General Mechanical Trades
E5    Refrigeration & Air Conditioning   M2    Fitting and Welding
E6    Electrical Machinary Maintenance    M3    Metal Construction and Welding
M4    Agro Mechanics
B 1    Building Trades                   M5    Heavy Construction Equipment Maintenance
B2    Plumbing and Pipefitting           M6    Auto Mechanics
B3    Carpentry -- Cabinet making, joints.  M7    Marine Engines Maintenance
B4    Interior Decoration                M8    Hydraulic Equipment Maintenance
M9    Industrial Machinery Maintenance
C1    Accounts                           MIO   Fine Mechanics
C2    Secretarial Services
Hi    Hotel & Tourism Courses
N)
O X4



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINIG PROJECT
Table 1: Project Cost Summary by Project Item
(YEMENI RIALS Millions)                 (US$ Millions)              X        %
Foreign   Total
Local      Foreign     Total         Local      Foreign    Total     Exch.   Base
Costs
A. VOC. TRG. SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
Institutional Strengthening of GAVTT          11.9         21.5       33.4            0.1      0.2       0.3       64      1
Management of Voc. Trg. Centers                 1.1         3.3        4.4            0.0      0.0       0.0       75      -
Management Information System for VT           7.7         37.8       45.4            0.1      0.4       0.5       83      1
Skill Development Fund                        79.9        108.5      188.4            0.8      1.1       1.9       58      4
Subtotal Vocational Trg. System Management    100.7        171.1      271.7            1.0      1.7       2.7       63     5
B. QUALITY IMPROVEMENT OF VOC. TRG.
Curriculum Development                        74.4         96.4      170.8            0.7      1.0       1.7       56      3
In-Service Training                           112.2       108.5      220.7            1.1      1.1       2.2       49      4
Continuing Education System                    9.7         43.4       53.2            0.1      0.4       0.5        82     1
Area High Tech Training Center                87.8        214.6      302.4            0.9      2.1       3.0       71      6
Strengthen Selected Exist. VTCs              853.1      2,035.2    2,888.3            8.5    20.4       28.9       70    56
Training for the Handicapped                  33.9         91.2      125.1            0.3      0.9       1.3       73      2
Selective Expansion (2 new VTCs)              148.0       325.8      473.8            1.5      3.3       4.7       69      9
Subtotal Quality Improvement of Voc. Trg.   1,319.0     2,915.2    4,234.2           13.2    29.2       42.3        69    82
C. COMMUNITY BASED ADULT ED.
Institutional Dev. of AET Centers             49.0         59.0      108.0            0.5      0.6       1.1       55      2
Dev. of Selected AET Centers (24)            136.1        342.9      479.0            1.4      3.4       4.8       72      9
Intro. to Marketing & Credit Alternatives      4.3         12.1       16.3            0.0      0.1       0.2       74      -
Subtotal Comml. Based Adult Education        189.3       414.0       603.3           1.9      4.1       6.0        69    12
D. IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
Establish of Implementation Unit @ GAVTT      14.6         38.4       53.0            0.1      0.4       0.5       72      1
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                   1,623.6      3,538.6    5,162.2          16.2    35.4       51.6        69   100
Physical Contingencies                       143.5       333.7      477.2            1.4      3.3       4.8        70     9 l
Price Contingencies                           12.0       326.2       338.2           0.1      3.3       3.4        96     7
jTOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          1,779.1     4,198.5    5,977.6           17.8    42.0       59.8        70   116



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 4
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 2: Project Cost Summnary by Category of Expenditure
(YEMENI RIALS Million)                     (US$ Million)                %         %
Foreign    Total
Local      Foreign      Total          Local       Foreign      Total      Exch.      Base
Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. CIVIL WORKS
Building Construction              797.4         863.8       1,661.2          8.0         8.6        16.6       52      32 
Arch/Eng Design Fees               31.5        126.2         157.7          0.3          1.3        1.6        80       3
Subtotal Civil Works               828.9        990.0       1,818.9           8.3         9.9       18.2        54      35
|B. EQUIPMENT                          166.0      1,493.8       1,659.8          1.7         14.9       16.6       90       32
C. FURNITURE                           42.9         171.8        214.7           0.4         1.7         2.1       80       4
|D. EDUCATIONAL MAT.                   75.1         300.3        375.4           0.8         3.0         3.8       80        7
SE. VEHICLES                           20.2        181.8         202.0          0.2          1.8        2.0       90        4
|F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Foreign Consultants                 29.1         116.5        145.6           0.3         1.2         1.5       80       3
Local Consultants                  107.8           -          107.8           1.1         -           1.1        -       2
Subtotal Technical Assistance      137.0         116.5        253.4           1.4         1.2        2.5        46       5
|G. TRAININGl
Seminar 8c Workshops               209.2          89.7        298.9          2.1          0.9        3.0        30       6 |
Study Tours                          -             9.8          9.8           -           0.1        0.1       100        - |
Fellowships                          -           61.0          61.0           -           0.6        0.6       100       I 
Subtotal Training                  209.2         160.5        369.7          2.1          1.6        3.7        43       7 |
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS               1,479.3      3,414.6       4,893.9         14.8        34.1        48.9       70       95
II. Recurrent Costs
A. ADDITIONAL STAFF                   16.1           -           16.1           0.2         -          0.2         -        -
B. BUILDING MAINTENANCE               63.8          27.4         91.2           0.6         0.3        0.9        30       2
C. EQUIPMENT                          64.4          96.6        161.0           0.6         1.0         1.6       60       3
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                144.3         124.0        268.3           1.4         1.2        2.7        46       5
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                 1,623.6      3,538.6       5,162.2         16.2        35.4        51.6       69      100
Physical Contingencies             143.5         333.7        477.2           1.4         3.3        4.8        70       9
Price Contingencies                 12.0         326.2        338.2           0.1         3.3        3.4        96       7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  1,779.1      4,198.5       5,977.6         17.8        42.0        59.8       70      116



ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 4
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 3: Incremental Recurrent Cost Summary (Government 1)
(YR millions)
Project Components
Category        Governance    Quality           AET          Total
Improvement
Salaries                                         1.1         2.2
Building
Maintenance                        13.4          0.8         14.2
Equipment
Maintenance          0.9           26.1          2.0         29.0
Totals               2.0           39.5          3.9         45.4
1/ Expenditure for quality improvement (consumables, part-time instructors from industry, and
instructional resources) will be met through allocations from the SDF.



ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 4
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 4: Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
US$ Million
IDA         OPEC           Other      Government    Total
Co-Financing Co-Financiers                 Financing
Category of Expenditure    Amount  %  Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %
Arch/Eng Design Fees       8.2    40   10.0   48                     2.5    12   20.8   35
Equipment, Vehicles,       14.5   50                  10.8   37    3.8    13   29.0   49
Furniture & Ed. Material
Technical Assistance       1.6    24            -     5.2    76             -      6.8   11
Operating Costs                                                      3.2    100   3.2    5
Total Financing            24.3   41   10.0   17    16.0   26    9.5    16    59.8  100
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements'
(US$ Millions)
| Category                         J                   Procurement Method                      |       NIF
ICB                 NCB                Other                              TOTAL
Civil Works
Construction/Rehabilitation                 3.0                  6.1                                 10.0              19.1
(2.4)                (5.0)                                                 (7.4)
Arch/Engineering Fee'                                                               1.0               0.7               1.7
(0.8)                               (0.8)
Goods
Equipment & Vehicles2                      12.1                                    3.0               7.0               22.1
(10.6)                                  (1.2)                              (11.8)
Educational Material'                                                              2.3               2.1               4.4
____________________________                                   ~~~~~~    ~~ ~~(1.8)  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ (1.8)
Furniture4                                 0.8                                     0.3                1.4              2.5
(0.6)                                  (0.2)                               (0.8)
Technical Assistance
Specialist Services'                                                               1.6                1.2              2.8
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(1 .6 )   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
Training5                                                                                            4.0                4.0
Operation
Recurrent Costs                                                                                       3.2              3.2
Total                                      15.9                        6.1               8.2         29.6              59.8
(13.6)                     (5.0)             (5.7)                          24.3)
Note 1:  Figures may not add up due to rounding
Note 2: NIF: Non-IDA financed
1/Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
2/lnternational Shopping for specialized equipment (US$ 3.0 million)
3/Direct Contracting with copyright owners (US$ 1.0 million). Intemational Shopping (US$ 1.3 million).
4/National Shopping (US$ 0.3 million)
5/Procurement of consultants' services for technical assistance and training will be in accordance to Bank guidelines.



ANNEX 14
Page I of 1
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US $ million)
IDA Fiscal Year and             During Semester              Cumulative              Percentage of
Semester Ending                   Disbursement               Disbursement             Total Credit
1996
December 31, 1995                      0.0                        0.0                      0
June 30, 1996                          0.5                        0.5                      2
1997
December 31, 1996                      1.2                        1.7                      7
June 30, 1997                          1.9                        3.6                     15
1998
December 31, 1997                      1.7                        5.3                     22
June 30, 1998                          2.0                        7.3                     30
1999
December 31, 1998                      3.9                       11.2                     46
June 30, 1999                          4.6                       15.8                     65
2000
December 31, 1999                      1.7                       17.5                     72
June 30, 2000                          1.9                       19.4                     80
2001
December 31, 2000                      1.0                       20.4                     84
June 30, 2001                          1.5                       21.9                     90
2002
December 31, 2001                      0.2                       22.1                     92
June 30, 2002                          1.0                       23.1                     95
2003
December 31, 2002                      0.4                       23.5                     97
June 30, 2003                          0.3                       23.8                     98
2004
December 31, 2003                      0.5                       24.3                     100
Disbursement Summary
Fiscal Year            1996     1997     1998      1999     2000     2001      2002     2003    2004
Annual                  0.5      3.1       3.7      8.5      3.6       2.5      1.2       0.7      0.5
Cumulative              0.5      3.6       7.3     15.8      19.4     21.9     23.1      23.8    24.3
Percentage                0       15       30        65       80       90        95       98      100



ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
Foreign           Local        Study Tours
Foreign       Local Experts    Fellowships       Fellowships       (Foreign)
COMPONENT/SUB-PROJECTS                          Experts                                           (seminars/
workshops)
p   PM           P   PM    P   PM                  P    PW    P   PM
1.0 Management & Financing of VTS                 rl == =                                               = =
A. Institutional strengthening of GAVT          1        3        2       4                       20        20      6        6
B. Improving management of VTCs                  1       3        1       3                5      20        20          .
C. Developing MIS for VTCs                       1       2        l        3                      30       100
D. Establishing SDF                              1       5        2        5      2        1      12        12               2
2.0 Quality Improvement
A. Strengthening Institutional Capacity for              .        .        .      .              600       600      4        4
o   Curriculum development                      2       11        4      31       4       16     120       240
o   Trainee assessment                          3       14        6      25       4       16     120       432
o  Instructional material development           3       26        3      52       4       16     312      2352
B. Inservice Training of Trainers
o  Training of master trainers for TDCs          .                                9      36
o Development of skill proficiency of                                                      -    576       2304
trainers in respecdve trades                                                              I
o Industrial training of trainers                1       4        1       4       -        -    432       5184
C. Developing a system for Continuing         _          7       2       12      18      54       60       120
Education
D. Establishing a hi-tech training center       1        6        -       6      12      48
E. Strengthening Selected VTCs                  3       l l      3       1 1      4      36       68       156      3       3
F. Rehabilitation of physically handicapped     1        5               12               6                500
through vocational training
3.0 Adult Education & Training for
females
o Insttutional Development of AETS              4       58       9       28                      647     2544       8       5
o Development of Selected AETCs                 3        9       6      144                               1920              4
o Introduction to marketing & Credit            2       10       2        8                       5        50 0s            4
Altematives
4.0 Project Implementation Unit at              4       8        5       20       5      10       35        50
GAVT
GRAND  TOTAL                                   32     182       47      368     62      244   3,102    16,604      21 2I
P     Number of persons;  PM   Person Months;  PW    Person Weeks






REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1995  |  1996    1  1997   1  1998  1    1999   |  2000        2001     2002      2
ID   Task Name                                          Dur.   Start    Finish   2 3141 31213144i 2          111213141 121314111213141112 33141121314 12
I   Vocational Training Proije                         2005d  1013195    611103        .    -.i-            I .III.Ei   111.! i .--Ilil 11Ii1
2       A. VTS Management                                525d  1013/95   10/1197          I-iqJ ,J                              I  i
3           A.2 Management of VrCs                       263d  10/3/95   10/1/96    1
4           A.3 MIS for TCs                              370d   114/96    6/1197                                    J I                         I
5           A.4 Skill Development Fund                   263d  10/1/96   1011/97   | -
6           A.1 Institutional Strengthening of GAVT      262d  10/2/96   10/1/97   i          !
7       B. Quality Improvement                          1753d   4/2/96  12/12/02   i I I_;.___ _:__
8           B.7 Selective Expansion: Two Pilot VTCs      708d   4/2/96  12/12/98   .               _         _ _                   I
9           B.1 InstitutionalStrengtheningofVT          1112d   6/4/96    9/1/00               m i                 i        i_i
10           B.3 Developing a System of CE               915d   9/2196    3/1/00                  1  i - i               11_111_1|   I
11           B.4 Establishing an Area Hi-tech Trg. Center  415d  10/1/96    5/1/98-                                         I    ti
12        8~~~.5 Strengthening Selected VTCs          50d1//6          919                                           iI
13           B.2 In-service Training of Trainers        1618d  10/4/96  12/12/02   .                                                  I   . .. -     i i.     . 
14           B.6 Rehabilitation of Physically Disabled  1544d   1/3/97   12/1/02                lit I     +      i -. .  --I -I
15       C. Adult Educ-ation & Training                         1/1/03
k%VTPRJSCHANX



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Management and Financing of the Vocational Training System
11995           1996         19-97    J   1998         1 1999    1   200        1 2001            2002          2003
ID    Task Name                                                          41121314 11121314111231411121311112131411213141  121314    12131
I     Management and Financing of VTS99
2          1.1 Institutional Strengthening of GAVTrt1,103
3              Estabtlaisment of NcvT                                                  'I
4              ~~~~~Gov. pots. & procedrs mnl rvwd & finalized            -l                                                         i                      I~
5              ~~~~~~~~~Gov. pois. and procedra adopted 
6                   tnterim Chairperson for NCVT appointed
7                   Membersappointed to NCVT                                I 
8                   GAVT reoganized                                                                                     F      I     i    II
9              ~~~~~~~~~Firstimeetingof NCVr                                      5/5I                            Ii                                         
10              Study VsMotdtoof senmw edineisifators                                                                                                                      I.         .
11              FEto train GAVrT& NCVTSstaffton org. dev.011/5     
1011  121'31 ~~                 ~..                                              .-
'12             LE to train GAVrT & NCVT staff on org. dav.                                                  I         .
14         ~~~~~~GAVriTProc. of Fwn., Et, anld Vehicle                      I'1I                                                                                    1    1
___                                                                   I10I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 3J31iI
15  tCVTa implemented in six Vits                  I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ii                            F                       It1           F      FI 
16         ~~~LTPACs inplemerted in six VTCasJWTV                                                                
1 6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
17         ~~~LCVTs &LTPACs implemented inramnainkiV VCs                                                                                                                                I I
18         1.2: Improving Managemnent of VTCs 
20              VIC Diroctora - oneo-weak wrkshp on kscat gav.                                               i                                        i I       ~        
21         ~~~6 VTCs seleclod far pitoft LCVra & LTPACs                        IIII                                                                                              F
A:YINSTRG.GVr



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Management and Financing of the Vocational Training System
1995        1996         1997        1998         1999        20020         01          2002        2003
ID    Task Name                                                   41   2341- 2  34 4             1 34        2 1 3 1 4                   1 2V   T 4 II  1 2  3   44
22             LCVTars gganhed 30 6 P"oVrCs                                                    jj                                                I    i
23             LTPACaorgaildsi.ttd at he--p--- -i                       -         - _rC   ._. --
24             Local gov. pilt effort evakd & prcss refinied                                                                    f    ~      I    -
25             LCVTs & LTPACs asfbd remaVTCs                                                                                              I                           I
26        1.3:MISforVTCS                                                                2                        3113
27             C omphAa         r        ocLtor wdtad                     - .      ._                                               ....      H                    I
28             FELEisatioomnpAwes  eV nVrCs| I                                                                                       I
29             Comm. software pkgs adaptedforuaa                           - -;1ti| Im                                                                      [                      1
30             Oirwadorsri naedoto pm posapfthe MIS                                                                    I                        | .       i
_    If                               I   i~~' .11                                         IlK
31             VTCpwsonnil tramedinusoda                                                         I   -10     |1                    i         1i u                        I o ofi
32             MIS operation and development - Year 1               | _| |  |
33             Fui.datitycdths MISis rvwtdrwndrht-Yr2             -           ---5t_-| 1   11311 |  |                                                       r j
34        1.4: Estabttshing the StilIl Developmwnt Fund                                                                                      - - I I   1i |  1i j-               - 
35             htCanCtiarman for SDF Councdpid pp31                              P                              t                  [ t  1-
toe SOP s~~~~~~ned ~3131                                                                                    F
36            t3ovornmwDwecrrlor SDF aid                           -- g-4-n  I                                            :.i             I  V !|   1!1 g          I   1
37             Opertot Proceres afor SFfnzd f                                 31            - z  1!I  - -. I -  !I .!
39             SDFCotci memberstipac mdrrcd  d                           11    1                I i  i  i j i      i-i|                     ||:  
FC   ~~~~DCOIKGdOVIeCIO  rIWCjiX1 -Lr - [ 1- 1                                                                                                            I0 ll  SILI;
41             SD Comdnwmi ncktrappointed1 1                                                       1_                     L
AW'NSTRG.GVT                                                                                                                                                                                  @



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Management and Financing of the Vocational Training System
_ 199       1996         1997         1998         1999         2000         2001        2002         2003
ID    TaskName                                                     4  1 12 13  4       212|3|      4 1121314   1   2 3 1 4 1  2  3  4  1|2|3  41                          4 21  23| 4
43             SDF Cral Gen Dir. a  Acnt-2 wk sdy tr                  I .           1E2  .         r             :                                             q      j         - - 
44             Reg. iks of qualted arnpoyars developed                          1a   u3I  1            -i- . |        ii l
45             3 I    s rl3 r    of c  totm.VFC directr r SDFC detai                        -411 
46            VWksh,ftor 12 SDF CounciaGAVITa   SOFrr                  _--  --    -   -G-|-- staff an               - po c---|is
47             By-lwa & Regulations for SDF: Study tour by LE                  - |
48             SF re.hsta frmaed, trg a work parm tfe coll. b5gfh                                     . |
49             SDF Coudltmri.h r--::                                                                                                :        :it fu:::::k -i                         :4ar
50             Johtr bb lt progresraview -SDFCANSSL/IDA                                                                                          . i1   II-i-
~~~~~~~71
o x
A:UNSTRG.GVT



ANNEX 17
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN1
IDA FY &                            ACTIVITY & FOCUS                                      SKILL                   STAFF
Approx. Dates                                                                        REQUIREMENTS                 WEEKS
Year 1             Preparation for implementation through a project launch   -Education Specialist/Task Manager
FY96               workshop. This activity will deliniate clearly the respective  -Procurement/Disbursement Specialist
December 1995      functions of all project entities vis-a-vis the NCVT and the  -Vocational Training Specialist      8
SDF; the interrelationships of subproject activities; TA  -Curriculum & Evaluation Specialist
procurement; and civil works for new VTCs.               -Adult Ed. & Training Specialist
FY96               Supervision Mission: The mission will focus on TA start up    -Education Specialist/Task Manager
May 1996           activities, in particular study tours, and implementation of the   -Curriculum & Evaluation Specialist  6
TA package.                                               -Procurement Specialist
-Operations Officer
Year 2             Supervision Mission: Focus on Subproject implementation;    -Education Specialist/Task Manager
FY97               civil works for rehabilitation                            -Operations Officer                      5
November 1996                                                               -Architect
FY97               First Joint Annual Review: The supervision mission will  -Education Specialist/Task Manager
May 1997           conduct a comprehensive review of project inputs, operations   -Operations Officer                 6
and outcomes with concemed authorities, and assess the    -Curriculum & Evaluation Specialist
progress made by NCVT and SDF Council.                   -Adult Ed. & Training Specialist
Year 3             Supervision Mission: Focus on project implementaton       -Education Specialist/Task Manager
PVWU               activities.                                               -Operations Officer                      6
October 1997                                                                 -Vocational Training Specialist
-Adult Ed. & Training Specialist
FY98               Supervision Mission: Focus on sub-project implementation,    -Education Specialist/Task Manager
April 1998         civil works for rehabilitation.                          -Operations Officer                       5
-Architect
-Vocational Training Specialist
Year 4             Second Joint Annual Review: Assess progress made by (I)    -Education Specialist/Task Manager
FY9                NCVT toward quality improvement of VT; and (2) SDF        -Curriculum & Evaluation Specialist      6
October 1998       Council in SDF allocations based on monitoring indicators;  -Operations Officer
focus on sub-project implementation.                      -Adult Ed. & Training Specialist
FY99               Supervision Mission: Focus on implementation.             -Education Specialist/Task Manager
February 1999      Arrangements for a tracer study will be made for two batches   -Operations Officer                 5
of graduates from rehabilitated VTCs.                    -Vocational Training Specialist
-Adult Ed. & Training Specialist
Year 5             MID-TERM REVIEW: A joint mid-term review with a view    -Education Specialist/Task Manager
PY200             to carry out a comprehensive review of the project's actual  -Operations Officer
June 1999          versus planned program. NCVT and SDF Council will be      -Vocational Training Specialist
requested to prepare mid-term evaluation reports before the  -Curriculum & Evaluation Specialist   8
supervision mission arrives. Upon completing the mission,  -Adult Ed. & Training Specialist
the TM will prepare the Memorandum of Understanding
which will include recommendations for project restructuring,
if necessary. The pilot phase of the AET component and the
tWO pilot VT centers will be reviewed to deternmine progress.
FY2000             Supervision Mission: Focus on implementation: civil works,   -Education Specialist/Task Manager    3
November 1999      equipment maintenance, pro ress made by SDF.             -Operations Officer
Year 6             Supervision Mission: Focus on implementation: project     -Education Specialist/Task Manager
FY2001             accounts, SDF biannual report.                           -Operations Officer                       3
April 2000                                                                   -Achitect
FY2001 **          Annual Review: Assess progress made by NCVT toward        Staffing same as annual review           8
September 2001     quality improvement of VT, and SDF Council's progress in  missions
SDF allocations for pre-service and in-service training.
(1) Supervision missions will be scheduled approximately 5-6 months apart with some 11 staff weeks allocated per
staff year. 18 staff weeks are envisaged during the first year of project implementation.
(2) Project supervision will be carried out in conjunction with other ongoing education projects in Yemen portfolio (3
in number); the total time spent on the project, therefore, will not be calculated as full time for the missions.
NOTE: ** Supervision during year 7 will be similar to the last three years shown in the table. An Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) will be produced in Year 2002 (FY2003).






ANNEX 18
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
MID-TERM REVIEW
Objectives
The objectives of the mid-term evaluation will be to (i) review, with the executing institutions, the
progress made on project implementation and efficiency of governance and financing of vocational
training; (ii) review the government's strategies and action plans and how they are being
implemented; (iii) review the progress made in enhancing private sector participation in management
and financing of vocational training; and (iv) discuss the impact of the government's reform program
on the training sector as a whole, especially its capability to respond to labor market demands.
Timing and Procedures
No later than June 30,1999, IDA and the government will jointly evaluate the progress of the project.
The review will be based on preliminary reports prepared by the National Council for Vocational
Training (NCVT) and the Skill Development Fund (SDF) Council, covering the issues described
below. Individual sub-project progress reports and financial statements, information based on
monitoring indicators (for details refer Implementation Volume 1), IDA supervision mission aide-
memoires and other NCVT documents will be used to prepare the preliminary report. The NCVT
and SDF Council will submit the reports to IDA and the government no less than 3 months prior to
the mid-term review.
Focus of Preliminary Reports
The NCVT preliminary report will cover the following issues and questions:
(1)    Extent to which overall commitments, disbursements and counterpart funding are in
accordance with forecasts made at the time of negotiations, discussions of any
shortfall, and proposals for remedying inadequacies in procedures leading to
shortfalls.
(2)    Review of commitments, disbursements, and counterpart funding on an individual
sub-project basis.
(3)    Review of NCVT's procedures, i.e., the extent to which guidelines are being followed
and continue to be appropriate, noting examples of best practice adoptions,
achievements, and successes as a consequence. Review of governance procedures,
management and feedback mechanism. Review of adequacy of coordination among
the sub-projects.
(4)    Review of efforts at cost recovery and cost sharing in the maintenance and
consumables within vocational training centers.
(5)    Review of extent to which policy framework has facilitated a demand driven VTS and
increased provision of private training.
(6)    Review of skilled manpower demand in different regions and evaluation of the
performance of the two pilot centers.



ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 2
The SDF Council preliminary report will cover the following issues and questions:
(1)    Evaluation of SDF's operation -- review of SDF procedures, i.e., the extent to which
guidelines are being followed and continue to be appropriate, successes or setbacks as
a consequence. Review of contributions to VTCs and private sector training
initiatives and making adjustments for future levels of contributions, if required.
Review of SDF administration -- audited statements of accounts.
(2)    Review of commitments and disbursements from SDF for pre-employment training
and in-service training since the establishment of the Fund. In this regard, review of
extent to which government subsidies to the VTS has diminished in absolute terms.
(3)    Review of extent to which private sector participation in management and financing of
vocational training has increased since the establishment of the Fund i.e., progress to
date, and recommendations for new initiatives. Recommendations on future courses
of action to ensure employers' participation in the provision of pre-employment and
in-service training.
(4)    Assessment of extent to which the Fund has contributed to the objectives for which it
was created and its contribution to quality improvement of the VTS.
In addition to the two preliminary reports to be prepared by the NCVT and the SDF Council, the
Project Development and Monitoring Agency (PDMA) of the Intermediary established under the
Education Sector Investment Project will submit a preliminary report on the progress made during the
pilot phase of the Adult Education and Training (AET) component.
Results of the Review
On the basis of the review, the government shall:
(a)    adopt improved operational guidelines for the NCVT and SDF Council respectively,
as appropriate;
(b)   revise sub-project objectives and strategies as appropriate; and
(c)   reallocate funds across sub-projects as appropriate to enhance the impact of sub-
projects.
During the mid-term review, IDA and the government will focus on identifying existing
problems in the overall governance of the vocational training system and of the effects of government
policies on the training sector in Yemen. A discussion of the results of policies and programs to be
implemented on the basis of the review will be furnished and a joint work program for the remaining
implementation years of the project will be finalized with the NCVT and SDF Council. The project
would then be modified on the basis of the findings and recommendations of the mid-term review.
The need for further expansion of the system will be considered based on demand for skilled
manpower, and appropriate financing options will be explored.



ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Impact assessment aims at determining the extent to which a project would continue to
produce an acceptable flow of net benefits beyond project completion date. The assessment involves
categorizing a number of sustainability indicators based on the flow of project benefits after project
completion, to measure over tine the post-completion levels of inputs, outputs, efficiency, quality and
spin-off effects. (Refer OED Report No.9225, Pages iii, 49 & 50)
In order to assess the extent of flow of project benefits beyond project completion, baseline
data at the start of the project or from a later date (as may be applicable and practicable) and the
progress in the flow of benefits after the baseline date would be required. The post-project trends in
flow of project benefits would be compared with trends during the project. Sustained flow of benefits
at levels commensurate with the socio-economic context of the country would indicate positive
impact.
Impact assessment of the Vocational Training Project would be conducted in the context of the
three major objectives of the project: (i) strengthening vocational training system (VTS) management
by providing a major role to employers in policy-making, management and financing of the VT
system; (ii) improving the quality and relevance of VT programs; and (iii) reorientation through
participation of communities, of adult education and training programs for women to improve their
relevance.
The General Authority for Vocational and Technical Training (GAVTT) would undertake the
responsibility of gathering data from the vocational training centers (VTCs), the Skill Development
Fund (SDF), the Local Councils for Vocational Training (LCVTs) and Local Training Program
Advisory Councils (LTPACs) with regard to each impact indicator. Data gathering would commence
from 1996, the year of project commencement or likely date from which the benefits with regard to
the indicator could be anticipated and would continue to be gathered annually. Data processing and
analysis would be undertaken by GAVTT with assistance from the management information system
(MIS), from the time the latter becomes operational.
A list of indicators giving the expected breakdown for data collection with regard to each
indicator is given on the following page. Baseline data would be established during the first year of
the project and tracer studies would be initiated as soon as new curricula have been implemented.



ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
Table. IMPACT ASSESSMENT
FOCUS OF PROJECT IMPACT ASSESSMENT
- Percentage of graduates employed
- Average wage of employed graduate
- Gestation period between graduation and first employment
- Training relevance to employment (in percentage)
- Percentage of AET participants engaged in income generating activities
- Percentage of trained handicapped persons gainfuly employed
- Increased private sector partidpation in management & financing of VT
o No. of employers registered with Skill Development Fund
o Skill Development Fund revenue
o SDF contribution to VTC budgets (as percentage of VTC budgets)
o SkiD Development Fund reimbursement of in-service training costs
Other Relevant Indicators for Impact Assessment                          NL          PG           RIU          M/F
INPUTS:
No. of Government (Public) VTCs                                          *                        *
No. of two year (full-time) programs                                     *
No. of AET Centers                                                       *                        *             *
No. of AET programs                                                      *                        *             *
No. of Enterprises (employers) providing in-service training             *
No. of private training centers                                          *                        *
No. of centers providing training to handicapped
OUTPUTS:
Enrollment in Public VTCs ' full-time programs                           *           *            S             *
Enrollment in Public VTCs' Continuing Education programs                 *                        *             *
Enrollment in AET Centers                                                *                        *             *
Employee enrollment in in-service training programs                      *                        *            *
No. graduating from public VTCs' full-time programs                      *           *            *            *
No. completing AET programs
EFFICIENCY:
Completion rate  1/                                                      *           *            *            *
Drop out rate  1/                                                        *           *            *            *
Repetition rate  1/                                                      *           *            *            *
Trainer-trainee ratio  1/                                                *           *            *
Average Trainer contact hours for week  1/                               *
Average Instructional hours per week  1/                                 *
Average Instructional days per year  1/                                  *
Average Equipment Utilization (H, M, L)                                  *           *
OUALITY:
Improvements in curricula (DR).  1/                                      *           *
Improvements/additions to training materials (DR).  1/                   *           *
Improvements in Trainee Assessment system (DR).  1/                      *           *
Instructor development (in-service training) person months. 1/           *           *
Local needs/demands assessment studies (DR)  1/                          *           *
Government policy implementation on management & financing of VT (DR)
SPIN-OFF:
Innovations in government policy, curriculum development, trainee assessment,   *    *
VTC-employer participation (DR)  1/
1/ Data to be gathered separatelv for: VTCs, AETs, Hi-tech Training Center, Enterprises providing in-service training, Centers
providing training to the handicapped, Private Training Centers (if any).
NL  National                RU  Rural - Urban            DR  Descriptive Report
PG  Program                 MF Male - Female             H, M, L  High, Medium, Low



ANNEX 20
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
RISK ANALYSIS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
1.    Recent IDA projects in Yemen have experienced substantial implementation problems, some of them
project specific, others of a more generic nature. The relevance of generic issues is shown in the attached Table
2; they include administrative inefficiency of borrower agencies, unrealistic exchange rates affecting
procurement of civil works, and difficulties in site acquisition. To minimize these implementation risks,
including the project specific ones relating to sector policy reforms, special provisions have been made in the
design and implementation plan of the proposed project. These provisions include:
(a)    The participatory design which reinforces the borrower's ownership of the
project.
(b)    A firm government commitment to policy reforms reflected in the Sector
Development Policy Statement (Annex 1).
(c)    Legal action already taken to implement policy reforms: decrees were reviewed
during appraisal and have been issued before negotiations by the Minister of
MSSL on (i) setting up a new governance structure for vocational training
(Annex 6); and (ii) establishing a Skill Development Fund (Annex 7).
(d)    Carefully prepared technical assistance packages designed to strengthen the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), support the reorganization of GAVTT, and
train local VTC managers (Annex 15).
(e)    Agreement with the borrower to pay local contractors in US dollars which can
be exchanged in the open market at realistic rates.
(f)    The fact that few new sites would have to be acquired.
(g)    A detailed supervision plan (Annex 17).
2     Support for project implementation will also be given by the newly established resident mission in
Sana'a.
3.    With the closing of four projects in the last three years, at present, the education portfolio consists of
three projects only -- 1-3 years old. The total credit amount for these projects is US$72 million out of which
some US$28 million have already been committed for disbursements in about two years. Inspite of the
persistence of generic implementation problems, the education portfolio would show marked improvements in
the coming years. One 'U' rated credit has already closed and the other should now move to 'S' because of
improvement in its implementation.
4.    Civil works could be singled out as the most important factor for poor performance of the education
portfolio during the last five years and key reasons were: (i) change in sites requiring redesign of buildings
(Crs. 1470, 1645 ): Remedy there would be no new sites in the proposed project; (ii) delays in contract award
even after IDA reviews (Crs. 1645, 1773): Remedy - this is a key focus of FY95 CPPR and some solutions are
expected; and lastly, the most important reason (iii) severe slide in US$- YR market exchange rates made it
difficult for the civil works contractors to complete YR - denominated contracts (Crs. 1340, 1470, 1645, &
1773): Remedy - all contracts would be denominated in US dollars, all new US$ contracts are doing well.



ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 3
Proiect ComDonents. Risks &  Measures
Component/sub-component           Risks                                      Measures to Minimize the Risks
1. Institutional Development:
(I) Strengthening the capacity of    i) Capacity of GAVTT and MSSL to plan   * Committment of Government and employers during all
GAVTT to facilitate policy-       and implement reform program due to        stages of preparation through participatory project design
making, set national standards for    bureaucratic practices and financial   * Sector development policy statement signed by the Dy. Prime
VT, and monitor implementation    constraints;                               Minister reflects a firm government commitlment;
and compliance.                   ii) The need for close coordination between    * Agreement on action plan with government and employers;
govermnent and employers                  legal actions completed e.g., decrees;
iii) Complexity of the new management     * Management structure developed on the existing institutions --
structure -- too many institutions;       only two institutions at local levels have been added;
* Carefully prepared TA package and presence of German
consultants with GAVTT1;
(2) Broadening the basis for VT   i) Management of the SDF according to its    * SDF managed by employers with representation from
financing through a Skill         mandate;                                   Government;
Development Fund.                                                            * TA from countries who are managing SDFs;
II. Qualit, Improvement:
(I) Strengthening institutional   i) Capacity of GAVTT to plan and           * Carefully planned TA to develop Yemeni staff;
capacity for curriculum           implement curriculum and other software    * Specialists TORs include training of counterpart staff as a key
development including trainee     inputs;                                    activity;
assessment and instructional      ii) Sustainability of reforms after specialists    * Academic advisory boards with participation of employers
material development.             leave;                                     would ensure sustainability of activities;
(2) In-service training of trainers.   i) In-service training to the large numbers of   * In-service training would be done through modular training at
instructors may slow down the pace of     six centers; large numbers could be trained to synchronize with
quality improvement;                      the pace of reforms;
ii) The cost of this training may not be  * The training would be financed through the SDF and would
affordable from Government budgets;       not depend upon Government budgets;
(3) Developing a system of        i) Capacity to plan and implement CE       * Carefully designed TA for capacity development;
continuing education (CE).        programs ;                                 * CE programs could be provided anywhere -- by industry,
ii) Industry's confidence in the centers  VTCs or jointly and would be supported by the SDF;
providing CE programs;
(4) Strengthening and             i) Implementation delays, especially civil  * Bidding documents for civil works and equipment would be
rehabilitating 15 VTCs offering   works, as experienced under ongoing        ready before project effectiveness;
programs in industrial and        projects;                                  * No land acquisition would be necessary;
commercial specializations;
Rehabilitating Sana'a Dhar-AI     i) Shortage of Yemeni instructors;         * Hotels in the geographic areas have assured participation in
Hamd hotel and converting it into                                           teaching and they would be represented in the governig
a hotel and tourism institute                                                councils;
(5) Establishing a hi-tech training    i) Sustainability of the center;      * Center would be managed by employers from hi-tech centers
center catering to training of                                               and courses would be run on a full cost recovery basis;
personnel in the use of hi-tech
equipment and machinery.
(6) Strengthening programs for    i)  Most of the centers for the handicapped    * The component supports NGOs in VT for the handicapped,
rehabilitating the physically     are run by NGOs and may pose               and has been included in the project on the specific request of
handicapped through vocational    implementation problems;                   Minister MSSL;
training.                                                                    * All proposals above US$20,000 would be reviewed by IDA;
III. Adult Education and          i) Community support for female AET        * Community support would be a precondition for IDA support;
Training                          requires specialized skills which AET      * This component has been designed with the active involvement
centers may not possess                   of women's associations and community leaders;
ii) Instructors for AET programs may be   * Support would depend upon availability of instructors who
difficult to find;                        would be provided further training and adequate instructional
resources.



ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 3
Relevance of Generic Issues to Education Sector Projects
Influence of Issues on recently completed and ongoing projects
Issue
Cr.1340        Cr.1470       Cr.1645        Cr.1773      Cr.2222       Cr.2412
(C)            (C)IQ (                      (O)          (O)           (O)
Exchange Rate Discrepancy                     H               H             H              H            M             L
(Issues relating tofinancing of local contracts and
support for foreign currency expenditures)
Credit Effectiveness                          NA              NA            H              H            H             H
(Period between IDA Board approval to
Parliament's sanction: expressed in months)
Lack of Counterpart Funding                   NA             NA             NA             NA           NA            NA
(Issues of timeliness and adequacy offunding)    ___                                                              _
Cumbersome Administration                     H              H             H               H            H             H
(Number of ministries involved in
clearing/authorizing project expenditure &
subsequent payment from Special Account or
application for direct payment from IDA in
Washington)
Procurement Policy
(A) CIVIL WORKS (Issue of price escalation
formulae in civil work contracts, pre- & post-  H             H             H              H            H             H
qualification issues, negotiating before and during
competitive bidding, avoiding awards if bids are
deemed too high and seeking rebidding, awarding
bids to other than the lowest evaluated bidder)
(B) TA
(C) EQUIPMENT                                 NP             NP            NP             NP           NP             NP
NP             NP            NP             NP           NP            NP
Customs Clearance Procedures                  M              M             M               M            M             M
(Lengthy procedures a major obstacle to timely
project implementation)
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) Performance  NA            NA            NA              NA           IP            NA
(Dearth of trained planners and managers; public
sector remuneration insufficient to attract
qualified financial & technical staff on full-time
basis; reluctance of PIU to hire suitably
experienced foreign technical assistance
personnel)
Compliance with Audit Covenants               NA             NA             NA             NA           NA            NA
(Audit reports are submitted to IDA considerably
behind schedule (i.e., 9 months after end of
financial year ends))
Sectoral & Proiect-specific Implementation Issues
Civil works procurement and construction
Change in sites                              NA             NA            H              M
Award of Tenders                                                          H              M            M             M
Incomplete civil works                       M              H             M              H
C - closed; 0 - ongoing;
H - high;  M - medium; L - low;  NA - not applicable;
IP - Initial problems due to new PIU; NP - no problems with marginal approval delays;






ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Background Table A: Emplovment in Industry and Commerce, 1993
in '0OOs
I.  Re istered Firms, total                        48.5
Industry, total '                                  32.3
of which
Food Processing                                    12.4
Oil and Chemicals                                  9.2
Textiles / Footwear                                4.0
Building Materials                                 2.6
Metal Working                                      1.8
Paper / Printing                                   1.3
Wood Working                                       1.0
Commerce total b/                                  16.2
II.   Small-scale Production and Services c"      100.0
III.   Total Employment in Industry & Commerce    148.5
of which: Private Sector                           133.8
Public Sector                           14.7at
^' Statistical Yearbook, 1993
bl Survey undertaken by GAVTT
Cl Mission estimate



ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 5
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Background Table B: Vocational Training Centers in Yemen 1992/93
Number                      Governorate           Ministry/Agency         Remarks
A.  Industrial
1                           Sana'a                MOE                     Baghdad
2                           Sana'a                GAVTT                   Dahban
3                           Hodeidah              MOE
4                           Dhamar                MOE
5                           Taiz                  MOE
6                           Aden                  GAVTT                   Mansoora
7                           Aden                  MConstruction           Khormaksar
8                           Abyan                 MOE                     Alkoud
9                           Abyan                 GAVTT
10                          Abyan                 GAVTT                   Agri. Machinery
11                          Lahaj                 GAVTT
12                          Hadramout             GAVTT                   Mukalla
13                          Hadramout             MOE                     Agri. Machinery
B.  Commerce
14                          Aden                  MOE
15                          Hadramout             MOE                     Mukalla
C.  Agriculture
16                          Lahaj                 MOE
D.  Health
17                          Aden                  MOH
18                          Abyan                 MOH
19                          Lahaj                 MOH
20                          Hadramout             MOH
21                          Shabwa                MOH
22                          Al-Mahra              MOH
E.  In-service Training "
23                          Sana'a                 Elec. Corp.
24                          Sana'a                Mlnformation            Radio & TV
25                          Taiz                  MConstruction
26                          Aden                  Elec. Corp.
Source: GAVTT
1/ In addition to the four public sector in-service training institutions, four large private sector companies offer enterprise-based
training -- Hayel Saeed Group of Companies, Thabet Brothers, Al-Thawarah Industrial Complex (a group of twenty small
companies), and Yemen Hunt Oil Company.



ANNEX 21
Page 3 of 5
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Background Table C: Enrollments, Graduates and Teachers in VTCs. 1992/93
Enrollment
Number                                         Graduates        Teachers       Student/Teacher
Ratio
Total          Females
1            319               -              101               53                6
2            269               -               60               48                 6
3            290               -               120              40                7
4            161               -               67               34                 5
5             88               -               24               12                 7
6           1,106              6              480               74                15
7            637               -              338               52                12
8            153               -               55               28                 5
9            230               -               105              35                7
10**           230               -              116               16                14
11            177              -               105              23                 8
12           296               -               136              36                 8
13            116              -               39               18                 6
Sub-Total       4,072              6              1,746             469                9
14           335              255              172              27                 12
15           480              230              210              25                 19
Sub-Total        815              485             382               52                16
16            26               3               10                9                 3
17           204              100              90                8                26
18            120             46               50               11                11
19            144             54               71               11                13
20            220             220              100               12                18
21            102              -               34                17                6
22            154              40              65                15                10
Sub-Total        944              460             410               74                13
23            93               -               45                17                5
24           N.A.
25            101                              50                19                5
26            36                                15               9                 4
Sub-Total        230                               110              45                 5
Total         6,087            954             2,658             649                9
Source:  GA'
Note:  ** Abyan Industrial School (MOE) is closed since 1994.



ANNEX 21
Page 4 of 5
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Background Table D: Typical Curriculum Structures in VTCs, 1992/93
A. NORTHERN GOVERNORATES
Number of Hours per week
Subject
Yearl   Percentage   Year2   Percentage
Islamic Religion               3                      3
Arabic                         3          25.6        3          25
English                        2                      2
Sociology                      2                      2
Mathematics                    2           5.1        2          5
Industrial Drawing             3                      3
Material Science                1        10.3         -         12.5
Basics                                                1
(Electrical/Mechanical)
Technology                                            I
Practical Work                 23         59         23         57.5
TOTAL                          39         100        40         100
B. SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES
Arabic                            2                     2
English                           2          13.9        1         11.1
Sociology                         1                      1
Mathematics                       2                     2
11.1                   8.3
Science                           2                      1
Technology                        6           25        8          30.6
Technical Drawing                 3                     3
Practical Work                   18           50       18            50
TOTAL                            36          100       36           100
iource: GAVTT



ANNEX 21
Page 5 of 5
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Background Table E: Annual Work Permits Issued to Expatriates
Country of Origin                                 No. of Permits
Asian Countries                                       10,800
Arab Countries                                        6,328
European Countries                                     1,741
African Countries                                      928
Others                                                 739
Total                                                 20,536
Employed in Governorates
Sana'a                                                6,183
Aden                                                  2,941
Taiz                                                   934
Hadramout                                              762
Al-Hodeidah                                            733
Other Governorates                                    2,673
Not Specified                                         6,310






ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 2
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION OF PROJECT
1.    The project would generate significant economic benefits on a sustained basis. The US$ value
of such benefits has been estimated in constant 1995 prices, using the average market rate of
$1 =YR120. Deducting from these benefits the estimated costs of the project (capital expenditures,
incremental recurrent cost and opportunity cost of trainees) a stream of net benefits was projected for a
period of 20 years. The estimated net benefits formed the basis for calculating internal rates of return
(IRR) for the two main project components: (a) vocational training in VTCs and enterprises; and (b)
adult education and training for women.
A.    VOCATIONAL TRAINING
a.     The following assumptions have been used to estimate the IRR:
(i)    The capital expenditures are US$52.9 million, i.e. the total investment cost of this
component, to be disbursed over 8 years.
(ii)   Incremental recurrent costs are derived from Annex 8, tables 1 and 2. They would rise
gradually as the project is implemented, leveling off a US$1.6 million after 2003.
(iii)   The graduate output has been assumed at the eventual planned capacity of 3200 p.a. in
the public sector VTCs and at 1000 graduates through enterprise-based training
programs.
(iv)   Opportunity costs of trainees reflect average annual earnings of US$560 and
unemployment rate of 30%.
(v)    Gross benefits, the estimated earnings of trainees after graduation, are assumed as
US$840 and would increase by 3.5% over time reflecting productivity gains supported
by continuing education sub-component of the project. As the project would be
demand driven, graduates would have no difficulties finding employment in modern
manufacturing and service industries. Some graduates would also start small
businesses, mainly in service sectors. An employment rate of 90 percent for VTC
graduates and 95 percent for enterprise based training graduates has been assumed.
b.     Additional benefits not included in these estimates would be generated from training of the
handicapped and literacy and health education of women.
B.    AET FOR FEMALES
Capital expenditures for this component would be US$6.9 million. Incremental annual
recurrent cost would be relatively low -- US$0. 17million. The opportunity cost have been estimated at
US$50 p.a. while gross benefits after training would be US$200 p.a.
2.     Based on these assumptions, the IRR would be about 16%.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
3.     To account for possible risks in generating benefits, two variables (employment rate and wages
of graduates) were found to have a major effect on the IRR; the sensitivity analysis done for these
variables (without changing other assumptions) for the range described below is shown in the attached
graphs:
a.    The employment rate of VTC graduates may go down below 90% ; its effect on IRR is shown
in the Graph 1 for an employment rate between 60-90%; an employment rate of 60% is,
however, highly unlikely as the project is demand driven.



ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 2
b.                The salary of VTC graduates may fall short of the assuined value of US$840; its effect on the
IRR is reflected in Graph 2 for a salary range Of US$640 - 940.
GRAPH I
Relationship between IRR and em-pioyrnent rate of VrC graduates'
1 6.                                                                                                 . . . .   .;t l0 iillt; iit;-tiitlt$0i0-0t 000 ;tt-000-i
4- -X   00-- |; ig;-; t;~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........
so   .,..  ...... .          .'-    X           ''"t  "''' .. ......... ....'''       t  "'........."''' '"'"''"
IR......    . .. .   .. ......    .      ....  .. ............-.   ..  .. .....  .    .:;0   T;:t$t   i   t;   -   ;   ;   t   ;:i0      t;      t$|   $      .-    
2   -   ......   ... .  - .-...   ; . .. .   ... ...  ...   ..  .::  .:; : .  :E .   . . . .
IR 8 S ~~~~~..      .    . . . .. . .. .  . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .... ... |IR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  .. .. .. -- .. ...  ....                                                        ........ ; ;-:taiH , -- ---  t--a--- : 
......                                                                                                    ... ......
-,:.. . ....                                                                             ..... -. :-- - E- : - - - :      .       :: ii : : E E E E i       ,--: 
2 - t - i-X-- 0 - - t -00-0X-i ;; 0 ;- i;-;t 0- i..   ..... ................t
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. .. .. .....g
640 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~         ~ . ... .4    . ......  ....
Irial~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .al.......gr....(USS



ANNEX 23
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Anthony Edwards, Labor Market Study for Community Colleges, Study commissioned by IDA for the
Yemen Education Sector Investment Project, June 1993.
Central Statistical Organization, Ministry of Planning and Development, Republic of Yemen, Statistical
Yearbook 1993.
General Investment Authority, Progress in Implementing Projects Licensed by the General Investment
Authority Head Office in Sana'a since establishment from March 1992 - December 1994, March 1995,
Republic of Yemen.
Gordon Hunting, Manuel Zymelman, Martin Godfrey, Evaluating Vocational Training Programs: A
Practical Guide, World Bank Publication, Washington, D.C. 1986.
Human Resources Development Fund (HRDF) in Malaysia, Documents and Acts.
Liaqat Ali, Republic of Yemen -- Labor Market Study, May 1994, IDA sponsored study.
Mun Tsang, Willingness to Pay, A Survey on Private Sector's Willingness to Pay for Vocational
Training.
Republic of Yemen, Rural and City Vocational Training Problems, A Needs Assessment Study -- August
1994.
Republic of Yemen, Expansion Prospects in Vocational Training, A Working Paper -- August 1994.
Republic of Yemen, An Assessment Report on Skills Development and Improvement, A Needs
Assessment Study -- August 1994.
Republic of Yemen, Human Resources: Development, Issues and Prospects, Population and Human
Resources Division, Country Department II, Middle East and North Africa Region, June 1990, Report
No.9096-ROY.
Republic of Yemen, Human Development: Societal Needs and Human Capital Response, Population and
Human Resources Division, Country Department II, Middle East and North Africa Region, June 1992,
Report No.9765-YEM.
Sana'a Chamber of Commerce, Alphabetical Itemwise List of Sana'a Industries, Sana'a, 1988-1989,
Yemen Arab Republic.
Sana'a Chamber of Commerce, Merchants and Manufacturers Alphabetical List, Yemen Arab Republic,
1988.



ANNEX 23
Page 2 of 2
Shobhana Sosale, Issues in Financing Vocational Education and Training, A Background Report,
February 1994, Population and Human Resources Division, Country Department II, Middle East and
North Africa Region.
Subramanya Balu, Survey of Vocational Training Centers, Data collected by Working Groups.
Yemen Arab Republic, Yemen Business Directory for Trade and Industry Guide Book, 1985 - 1986.



IBRD 27082
Ii              42              43              44              45               46               47              48              49               50               51              52   .          532              54'             S5
Y E M E N                                              S A U D I   A R A B I A                       _
-19                                            VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT                                                                                   _         o5ddc-=sh5qq=h:  --
_        IN ROADS                    DISTRICT CENTERS                                     -                                         _ -18
SECONDARY POADS               PROV NCE CENTERS                                                                                                                   /  '  M    A  N
4    NTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                    -
'8-1:-                                                       SEA PORTS                   -  CGOVERNCOATE SOUNDARIES                 /                                         /   -
^      WADES                  _  -  NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
{ ' + ' > sb//\ rh=mud * --- = V .~~~~5t\                                                                                                                                      I
,                                             $41 'X   'I'~'~'~''~ bAL MAHARA,
-17  oP                             X          \      4 SAADAH Hh .r          ' &a,                                   /    M,w=Lh     '                     _            /                                      Hcwl  Rekhyu,
<  \        R         /      .             $_>                       /           S    /                           ~~~~     ~ ~~~~~~~           ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~-~-Mc r   Domqa,A
> 1 i ] / Z=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                       -kh 0 ~-Ih7s 6 
Js    M          _$3    f   fAI A L - J   W F -_    l                /Al 'Abr                  /        Tor,m  -                                                  4,c 7nr_;
_~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~       ~ ~~~oe              Rodo tH Aow.ml uqIoo.46rAl hct- _        /                   -- /                                                                    * .  *NhioJ
AiIskyychSeE   Thy=dh                       a                                  4  =rh                 HADRAMOUT              N>     -          +'lh
Al HODdh'.               Meehp.           3                               SHA BWA-s           \n Nr                        "-    ~ '>
t        =                    { 6t />! 'N <t=n:                                           '- x Ripe
- -          6S;8XHAMAt    AL    /    5 uHu,rmI  A.S                                                                                                      G U LF  O F A DE N
14  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
T    Z' Odin \        A;,   KZ;n/llbr)  25  50 SAbr                                                           IO;                                                          __ _    _ ---
-s '3                                                 . TAA/ H, I O0P I A  \ >   - -  V   L 4HIJAE3        r%_&   _  M~_.F                          O     25    50    75   IOOM,I                                                - S eotra
ET IO I                        HA>- A'  H                    Alc GhSreth                                                                                                                                              oro
Ai           -         A-                                                                           4E                I                I                I      'Ayay Kur hheBrothers                               12 -
41:              42' /       DJIBOUTIo44'                             4S        4n                       47-               43               49               50'               51'S(Yemenl 52'                   53 (Yen3rle  5w, H
'A' Z  SAN      Sl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPTME A









r-:        ,            I                 .        I     .                                                        ;         r A  ..
: .  i-                                         - :;    A-



