                                      Documentof
                                  The WorldBank




                                                        Report No. 32593




                PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT

                                       YEMEN

                        VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
                                (CREDIT NO. 2793-YR)


                                     June 14,2005




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial

 1996                                YR 135
                  US$l.oo
                  U S $ l.oo
1997                                 YR 135
1998              US$l.oo            YR 135
1999              US$1.oo            YR 147
2000                                 YR 152
                                     YR 165
                 U S $ l.oo
                  US$1.oo
                  US$1.oo
2001
2002                                 YR 176
2003             U S $ l.oo          YR 178
2004             US$l.OO             YR 184


Abbreviations and Acronyms

DTCs             District Training Centers
EFA              Education for All
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GAVTT            General Authority for Vocational and Technical Training
GTZ              Deutsche Gesellschaft h e r Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICR              ImplementationCompletion Report
IDA              International Development Association
ILO              International Labour Organization
L C V T          Local Council for Vocational Training
LIL              Learning and Innovation Lending
K f W            Kreditanstalt h e r Wiederaufbau
                 (German Credit Institute for Reconstruction)
M I S            management information system
MSSL             Ministry o f Social Security, Social Services and Labor
MTEVT            Ministry o fTechnical Education and Vocational Training
NGO              Nongovernmental Organization
OED              Operations Evaluation Department
OPEC             Organization o f Petroleum Exporting Countries
PDRY             Peoples' Democratic Republic o f Yemen
PRSP             Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
QAG              Quality Assurance Group
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
UNESCO           UnitedNations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
YAR              Yemen Arab Republic


FiscalYear Government:                      January 1-December 31



Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation                 :   Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Department              : Mr.R.KylePeters
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group         :   Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                                   :   Ms.HelenAbadzi

                                                              i



    OED Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independencein evaluation.


 About this Report
       The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activitiesof the World Bankfor two
 purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluation processand to verify that the Bank's work is
 producingthe expected results,and second,to help develop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessons drawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
 the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative,large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations; those for which
 ExecutiveDirectors or Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate
 important lessons.The projects,topics, and analytical approachesselectedfor assessment support larger evaluation
 studies.
       A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsibleBank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussionswith project staff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review;the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Boardof Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


 About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
 The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
 the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the projectachieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the         '
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Susfainability:The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnsfitufional DevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate,which derives from these
institutionalarrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance:The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of developmentobjectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly unsatisfactory.


                                                                           ...
                                                                           111



 Contents

 PrincipalRatings           ................................................................................................................       v

 Key Staff Responsible               ........................................................................................................      v

 Preface   ..............................................................................................................................        vu..

 Summary      ...........................................................................................................................         ix

 1 Background
  .                       ...................................................................................................................
         Bank Sector Strategy................................................................................................                      1
         Objectives of the Vocational TrainingProject ........................................................                                     3

2 Implementationand Resultsofthe AssessedProject
  .                                                                                               ............................................... 4

         Mission Observations.,.............................................................................................                       6

3 .  Ratings     ..........................................................................................................................       9

         Outcome................................................................................................................... 9
         Institutional Development Impact............................................................................                             9.
         Sustainability............................................................................................................ 9
                         . .

        Bank Performance ...................................................................................................                      9
        Borrower Performance .......................................................................................... 10
4.   Issues for FutureConsideration                         ...............................................................................      10

5 Lessons
 .              ........................................................................................................................         12

Annex A     .ProjectActivities.............................................................................................                      13

Annex B    .Statementsand                 IssuesRaisedinMissionInterviews                                   ...................................  17

Annex C     .BasicData           Sheet      ..............................................................................................       19




This report was preparedby HelenAbadzi who assessedthe projectinDecember 2004.The reportwas edited
byWilliam B  .Hurlbut.andPilar            Barquero and Rose WairimuGachinaprovidedadministrativesupport.


                                                                  V



PrincipalRatings
                                          ICR*                           ICR Review*                              PPAR           --
_I                                                       -I_
Outcome                               Satisfactory                Moderately Unsatisfactory            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Institutional                            Modest                               Modest                              Modest
Development Impact
Sustainability                           Likely                               Likely                               Likely
Bank Performance                   Unsatisfactory                        Unsatisfactory                        Unsatisfactory
Borrower                           Unsatisfactory                        Unsatisfactory                        Unsatisfactory
Performance
* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsible operational division of the Bank. The ICR Review is
an intermediateOEDproduct that seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible
Project                              Task ManagedLeader                     Division Chief/              Country Director
                                                                            Sector Director
    Appraisal                      Yogendra Saran                     Jacques Baudouy                   lnder Sud
    Completion                     Yasser El-Gamma1                   Regina Bendokat                   Mahmood Ayub


                                                vii


Preface

        Attached is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Vocational
TrainingProject(Cr.2793-YR) inYemen. The project was approved for a credit o f
US$24.3 million equivalent inDecember 1995. The credit closed on December 31,2003,
after an extension o f 6 months; US$3.6 million savings resulted from a change in exchange
rate and were cancelled. OPEC provided parallel financing o f US$11million.

        This project was sklected for assessment inorder to study the effectiveness o f the
Bank's vocational training strategy ina poor country with a low literacy rate that had
previously implemented multiple projects with vocational training components but limited
policy content.

        The PPAR i s based on the following sources: Project or Implementation Completion
Reports (ICRs), Staff Appraisal Reports (SARs), Loan Agreements for the projects, and
project files, particularly the supervision reports. An OED mission visited Yemen in
December 2004 to interview officials and beneficiaries, observe instruction inschools, and
collect other pertinent information. Fieldvisits took place at the Dahaban Vocational
Training Institute, Women's Vocational Center in Sana'a, BlindWomen's Training Center in
Sana'a, and Dhamar Vocational Training Center. The author thanks the govemment officials
who received the mission for their extensive cooperation.

        Following standard OED procedures, copies o f the draft PPARwere sent to the
relevant government officials and agencies for their review and comments but none were
received.


                                                  ix


 Summary

          Since 1972, Yemenhas implemented10IDA-financedprojects (including four in
 former People's Democratic Republic o f Yemen) that helped built its educational
 infrastructure and ability to provide vocational education. The Vocational Training Project
 reviewedhere representedan effort to reform the policies ofthe sector and to reorient
 training so as to meet labor market demands.

          The project was intendedto strengthenvocational training systemmanagement,
 improve the quality andrelevance of vocational training, and reorient adult education and
training programs for women. Itwas to build and refurbishtraining centers, develop updated
curricula, and train staff. It would also involving the private sector inmakingpolicy and
decisions, reforming curricula, creating a revolving fund for in-servicetraining, and helping
women and unschooled people obtainbasic skills.

          Most planned activities were carried out, includingrefurbishingo f vocational centers,
curricular revisions, textbook production, and teacher training. However, the project proved
overly ambitious and complex and could not involve the private sector to the extent expected.
Changes inthe priorities o f donors who were to provide funds for various activities resulted
incancellations offunding anddeletion ofthe components that wereto provide literacy
training and special vocationaltraining for women. However, since the end o f the project, the
government has carried out extensive policy development, andmore demand-driven training
i s likely to be provided inthe future.

         The outcome ofthe Vocational Training Project is rated moderately unsatisfactory
because the objectives o f improving subsectoral management and making training accessible
to women were not fulfilled. Institutionaldevelopment impact i s rated modest. Sustainability
i s rated likely becausethere i s steady student demand for the supported training centers and
curricula they offer. Bankperformance i s ratedunsatisfactory becausethe Bank
overestimated government capacity to implement, and quality at entry was unsatisfactory.
Borrower performance i s also rated unsatisfactory because o f limited activity and initial lack
o f commitment.

         Experience with the assessedproject confirms a number o f OED lessons from the
vocational-technical education subsector:


     0   Establishment o f functional training facilities i s necessary but not sufficient for
         producing skilledworkers. The facilities must be financially viable over the long term
         inorder to hirethenecessaryinstructors andrenewtheir equipmentandbuildings.
         Publicly financed vocational training centers are only viable when the government
         and the private sector establish ajoint and effective strategic framework that sets
         priorities and allocates resources to those priorities.

     0   Many vocational training facilities were built when the Bank's strategy was oriented
         toward that subsector. Though some o f these older investments continue to be used
        well, others have fallen into disrepair. Because o fthe expense involved in
        technological renewal, it may be cheaper to abandon or rebuildsome facilities than to

                                           X



   rehabilitate them. Ifabandoned without replacement, however, training capacity (that
   has often been financed by donors) may drop precipitously. It may be wise for the
   Bankto reinvest periodically inthe renewalo folder facilities inorder to extendthe
   life o f earlier investments.

0  Governments may view vocational training as a means o fhelping school dropouts get
  jobs and alleviate their poverty. However, vocational training centers may select the
  better-educated students who are ultimately less likely to perform the type o f tasks for
  which they were trained. Admission criteria mightbe adapted to suit the needs o f less
  educated persons, who may have limitedtraining opportunities.

0 Vocational training courses often require hll-time attendance over one or more years.
  Such courses may be unsuitable to the most needy and less educatedpersons who
  need to work. A series o f shorter courses taught inthe evenings or weekends may be
  more suitable to the work schedules o f the poor.

0 For vocational education projects to succeed, potential trainees and the private sector
  must be consulted on project components, outcomes, and targets. A dialogue held
  exclusively with governments risks creating projects for which there is relatively
  limited demand and commitment.

0 The complexities o f projects must be commensurate with implementation capacity.
  The implementing agencies must have procurement prerequisites ready ifthe project
  i s to be implemented within the envisaged timeline.

0 Management information systems and tracer studies are important tools to monitor
  the needs o f beneficiaries. These activities must be given priority inprogramming
  project activities.




                                                                      Ajay Chhibber
                                                                 Acting Director-General
                                                                  Operations Evaluation

                                                              1


 1.        Background

 1.1       Yemen is a low-incomecountry (annual per capita GDP ofUS$510), with ahighrate
 o f illiteracy (about 50 percent) and population increase (2.9 percent annually). It remains
 largely an agricultural country, with few industrial centers, notably Taiz andHodeida;
 nevertheless, its traditional agriculturalbase i s gradually beingreplaced by industry and
 services (which respectively accounted for 41.6 percent and 47.6 percent o f GDP in2003)'
 Unificationin 1990with the People's Democratic Republic (PDRY) increased the country's
 industrial baseby incorporatingthe port of Aden.

 1.2       The increasing importance o findustryandcommerce inthe economyhas createda
 needfor suitably trained humanresources for those sectors. In1993/94, whenthe Vocational
 Training Project was appraised, about 50,000 people were employed inindustrial and
 commercial firms. Another 100,000 workers were employed insmall-scale production and
 service industries. Assuming an annual attritionrate o f 3 percent, there would be aneedfor
 about 4,500 new skilled workers per year. Also, about 1,200 new industrialprojects were being
licensedby the government, with investments totalingUS$2billion, that would generate about
28,000 newjobs inthe following 3 to 5 years. Most o fthe workers needed to fill the new
openings would require vocational training suitedto the specific demands o f local andregional
labor markets.However, fewer than 6,000 students were enrolled invocational training centers
at that time. About 4,900 ofthese were trained for employment inindustryand commerce
programs that produced only about 2,100 graduates annually.

1.3       Theproject was to increase the output ofworkers skilledfor industrial and
commercialneeds. Duringappraisal, it was estimated that when hlly operational,
investments from the proposed project would provide annual outputs o f about 6,900
graduates; 3,200 from vocational training centers, 1,000 from enterprise-based programs,
2,000 from continuing education centers, 100 from high-tech programs, and 1,000 from
programs for the handicapped.

1.4       The optimistic expectations were somewhatjustified. Yemen had developed a solid
record o fsuccess with educationalprojects bothinthe former YemenArab Republic (YAR)
andPDRY. But therewere also reasonsfor caution. Withvocational training split across
multipleministries, subsectormanagementwas fragmented. Vocational training centers
managedbypublic agencies hadvirtually no inputs from the private sector or local
communities. They operated under severe financial constraints, with outdated curricula and
shortages o finstructional materials, equipment, and trained teachers. Therewere considerable
regional imbalances and women's participationwas very low.


Bank Sector Strategy

1.5       Since 1972, IDA has implemented 19projects inthe education sector, o fwhich 16have
been completed (Figure 1,Annex 1Table A.1). The first 10projects had supported various
vocational education training centers innorth (YAR) as well as south Yemen (PDRY). Their


1. Atlas method for the computation o f the GDP (gross domestic product). World Bank: Country at a Glance 2003.
2. By comparison, about 100,000 students were registered for teacher training and higher education.

                                                  2


 general objectives were to (a) alleviate acute shortages of shlled manpower; (b) train local
 instructors; (c) increasethe numberso f student places available; and (d) improve curricula.
 They supported centersthat offered two-year programs for primary school graduates (Grades
 1-6) intrades such as mechanics, automotive repair, electricity, and carpentry, as well as adult
 training centers that taught a mix o fvocational skills and literacy(Annex Table A.2). These
projects, which largely involvedcivil works andtechnical assistance, were completed
 satisfactorily. As the technical trainingneeds o fYemenincreased, a dedicatedtechnical
 education project was launched (Cr. 1645-YAR), but it had severe implementationproblems
 andanunsatisfactory outcome. Also, the Education Sector InvestmentProject (Cr.2570-YEM)
includeda component designedto establish two-year, post-secondary technical training
programs oriented toward the labor market.A secondvocational training project is under
preparation in2005, aimed at strengtheningsubsectoralmanagement.

 1.6     At the time the assessedprojectwas appraised in1995, there were 22 vocational
training centers offering pre-employment programs inindustrial skills (13), commerce (2),
agriculture (1) and health (6). About 19 o f these centers providedhad some handicapped
trainees, though the training was not specifically directed at persons with disabilities. Adult
education was provided at about 40 literacy centers throughNGOs, private-sector facilities,
the Ministries o f education, health, as well as social services, and labor. Only four public
sector corporations and four private companies offered inservice programs to their employees
at that time. All these facilities operated through public funding, and coordination among
them was limited. The assessedproject represented a shift,fromthe supply-driven civil-works
oriented lendingto a more demand-driven sector strategy that would give control o f training
to those who needed its resultant skills. The project was to establish a new governance
structure and financing mechanisms with majority representation to the private sector

1.7     Donor Involvement. Since the 1 9 7 0 Germany (including former German
                                                ~ ~
Democratic Republic) has been extensively involved invocational-technical training innorth
and south Yemen. Other donors also indicatedinterest inthis sector. The assessedproject
was to receive donor financing coveringUS$16 million through EU(US8 million), Japan
(US$3.29 million), Netherlands (US$4.70 million) at government request. The OPEC fund
also was to contribute US$11 million. The efforts o f all the donors were to be coordinated
through financing project components inparallel. (See Section 2).

                                                                3


 Figure1: IDAInvestmentsinthe EducationSector ofYemen




                                                                 Education Proiects
                           Edu (Pnrrech -YAR)

                   Edu I (VoclAgn Edu-PDRY)

                    Edu II Noc EduINFE-YAR)

                        Edu II (Voc Edu -PORY)

                        Edu 111 (Agri Edu .YAR)

                 Edu IV (VOC-Tech Edu -YAR)

              Edu 111 (Voc Edu T Train-PDRY)

                 Edu VI (NFE for Agri NOC  Alt )
           3     Edu V (NFEfor Agn NociLit )
          .% Edu  IV (Voc -TechTraining-PDRY)
          ne               TechnicalTraining

                               Teacher Training

                     Secondary Teacher Training
                                BasicEducation

                       Edu Sector lmpmvement

                            VocationalTraining

                      Yemen Child Development

                  BasicEdu Expansion Pmject

                               Higher Education




                                                                     Year

  Agr.=Agricultural                Pri.=Primary
  Edu.=Education                   T Train.=Teacher Training                           Completed Projects

  Lit.=Literacy                    Tech.=Technica                                      Active Projects
  NFE=Non-Formal Education        Voc.=Vocational
  PDRY=People's Democratic        YAR=Yemen Arab                                       Under Evaluation




Objectivesof the VocationalTrainingProject

1.8         Theprojectwas to help strengthenYemen's capacity to train skilled labor inline with
the emergingdemands inthe economy. The objectives were to: (a) strengthen vocational
training system management byproviding a major role to the private sector inpolicy-making,
management, and financing o fthe sector; (b) improve the quality and relevance of vocational
training through the enhancement o fprograms inexistingcenters and expansion o ftwo new
vocational training centers and two pilot centers; and (c) reorient, through participationo f
communities, adult education and training programs for women to improve the relevance o f
training for the labor market.

                                                             4


 1.9       Components were:

      0    ManagementandFinancingofVocationalTraining(US$3.2 millionat appraisal,
           US$2.7 million final) for technical assistance to the government's General Authority
           for Vocational and Technical Training (GAVTT) to establish a systemfor sector
           planning, policy-making, organizational development, a management information
           system(MIS)under separate German government (GTZ) assistance, This component
           would support the creation o f a Skills DevelopmentFund(SDF) to enhance training
           opportunities for private-sector employees financed through a wage tax.

      0    QualityImprovement(US$42.3 millionat appraisal, US$30.82 final) to improve the
           quality and relevance o f pre-employment training offered by vocational training
           centers and to ensure sustained in-service training o f the existing workforce through:
           (i) strengthening institutional capacity for curricula development (US$1.7m); (ii)
           developing a system o f in-service training o ftrainers (US$2.2m); (iii)                developing a
           systemo f continuingeducation for employees ofbusiness and industry, as well as
          vocational training center instructors and graduates (US$3.5m); (iv) strengthening
          selected vocational training centers (US$28.9m); (v) strengthening programs for the
          physically handicapped (US$1.3m); and (vi) selective expansion through
          establishment o f two pilot training centers (US$4.7m).

      0   Adult Educationand Trainingfor Females(US$6.0 millionat appraisal) to
          improve community ownership o f adult education andtraining programs consisting of
          (i) institutional development, including support for new curricula, training o f
          instructors, and workshops on participatory approaches, and (ii)                    an adult education
          project funding facility for the financing o f infkastructure rehabilitation, equipment,
          and instructional materials to support programs which meet agreed criteria and to
          refine existing practices inmarketing and access to credit alternatives.

 1.10     Because o f the complexity and extensive work that was to be done, the project was to
be implementedover a periodof eight years rather than the usual five.


2.        Implementationand Results of theAssessed Project
2.1       Theproject involvedmultipleministries and components with few linkages among
them. The Ministryo fEducationwas to implement adult literacy and the Ministryo f Social
Security, Social Services and Labor (MSSL)was to implementthe vocational component^.^
Although Yemenhadproven capacity to build and equip training centers, its capacity to
bringabout systemic reform that the project aimed for hadbeenclearly limited. Thus, the
project provedoverly ambitious and complex.

2.2       From the start, the project faced considerable delays and obstacles. The project
implementationunit (PIU) had limitedprocurement knowledge, and few activities were
carried out during the first two years. The govemment didnot ask for the committed Dutch
and Japanese funds on time, and the donors applied them elsewhere.The Netherlands

3. Since 2000, a separate Ministry for Vocational and Technical Training has been established.

                                                               5


  transferred hnds initially earmarked for this project to other projects benefiting women, the
  poor, and Education for All. Japan changed its sector strategy following debt reliefto
  Yemen andcancelled the proposed cofinancingandplans to buildahigh-techvocational
  training center. The European Union funds became available only as the project was coming
  to a close and were channeled through a separate PIUa4Ultimately, only OPEC funds were
  available. Lacking funds, the project was restructured inOctober 2000. The adult education
  objective was deleted as well as the two pilot vocational centers. (See Annex 1Table A.3 for
  details o f project components.)

  2.3      Results were as follows:

  2.4      Quality improvement of training system. Many o f the older IDA-financed vocational
  training centers were already inbadphysical condition due to vandalism and a lack o f
  maintenance, with little and outdated equipment. Thus, much o f the training capacity
  established earlier hadbeenlost, and considerable effort was spent refurbishing20 vocational
  training centers. Inretrospect, PrU staff considered that it mighthave beenpreferable to
  buildentirely newcenters andabandon some oldbuildings.

  2.5     Through the earlier projects, technical consultants hadprovided uncoordinatedinputs
  from different parts o f the world. Staffhadbeentrained inmany countries, such as China, the
  Soviet Union, East and West Germany, andhad introduceddifferent and disparate curricula
  and materials. Inresponse, the Curriculum Departmento f the Ministryo f Technical
  Education and Vocational Training created unifiedcurricula for various specialties. A
  competency-based approach was adopted, and a total o f 2500 modules were developed in 13
  subjects and 185 groups (including electricity, electronics, car mechanics, welding,
  carpentry, building, air conditioning, agricultural machines). Master craftsmen were invited
  to specify competencies and then develop examinations. Accreditation guidelines were also
  developed. The department developed loose-leaf textbooks, which the Ministryo f Education
 printed.To improve curriculum delivery, training center managers were trained through
 courses as well as study tours inMorocco and other countries. Since 2003, the government
 also operated a parallel nonformal system o fbrief courses that may leadto a diploma for the
 students willing to study for exams on their own.

 2.6     A skills evaluation surveyshowed that 75-70 percent ofgraduates attained a `middle'
 skills level, 13-16 percent had a `high' skills level and 17-19percent were considered `weak'.
 Despite weaknesses, the objective o f improving educational quality was achieved.

 2.7     Reorienting management andfinancing of vocational training. Some enterprises were
 consulted during appraisal, and the expectation arose, according to project documents, that
 local vocational training councils would be easily set up to manage the projectjointly with
 the government. However, there was little trust betweenthe business community and the
 govemment at that time. The PIU succeededinestablishing a national council and viable
 localtraining councils and committees inthe industrial cities o f Hodeida and Taiz, but inless
 industrial areas like Aden, Sana'a, and Hadramaut employers showed limitedinterest, and


4. GTZ. Private Sector Project. Final examinations andpractical work in2003104 from vocational institutions (Final report).
Sana'a 2004 (Arabic). The report attributes the modest results to limited teacher knowledge and limited contacts with the
job market and equipment used in the workplace.

                                                   6


there was little demandfor training o f existing employees or new hires. However, no clear
mechanisms were set up to ensure private sector involvement inall policy and operational
matters. The national council o f vocational training remained dormant. A management
information system was to be developed that would help obtain clear data on enrollments and
demand for various specialties, but the software could not be completed. Much o fthe activity
o f the Skills DevelopmentFundrevolved around the collectiono f training funds from
companies with more than 10 employees. Overall, in-service training activities have been
limited,though they increased inthe last year of implementation; in2003,4,310 workers
participated in 192 training programs for 376 private andpublic enterprises. Thus, the
management improvement objective was only partly achieved.

2.8      Adult education and trainingfor females. No activities were realized to meet the
objective o f teaching literacy and reorientingvocational education for greater relevance to
women's needs, and it was not achieved.

Mission Observations

2.9      The OED mission visited the Dahaban Vocational Center inSana'a andthe
Vocational Training Center o f Dhamar that hadbeenrefurbishedby the project. Visits were
also made to the Women's Vocational Training Center, and the BlindWomen's Center in
Sana'a that have received support from the project. Six groups o f 8-25 students were
interviewed inthe Women's center, Dhamar, and Dahaban institutes and were asked about
current work, job prospects, and satisfaction with the course. Observations and interviews
with students and instructors brought out the following issues:
    Availability of women 's vocational training

        Girls' attendance invocationaltraining hasbeenlow, but it was reportedto the
        missionthat incommercial facilities women are about 50 percent o f enrollments.
        There are also specific institutes for women inTaiz andHodeida. The Dahabanand
        Dhamar technical institutes hadno women inthe traditionally male skills trades
        (mechanics or electricity). However, there were some female instructors o f computer
        science and communications.

    Quality of the training system

        The vocational training centers are well-equipped, and most buildingsare well
        constructed. However, the centers visited worked duringone shift and were closed
        by 3 pm. Short courses for specific companies may be conducted inthe afternoons,
        butrules currentlyprevent facilities from generating income from student fees or
        product sales. Thus, the installations are not usedas efficiently as they could be.

        All facilities reporteda shortage of localtrainers. Inthe Dahabanand Dhamar
        facilities there were a total o f about eight instructors who were trained in Germany
        through GTZ help and through the technical training project (Cr. 1645).

        Classroom observations revealed inone group considerable time wastage as students
       waited for their turnto use the equipment. Though classes were split into theory and
       practice groups for better allocation o f equipment, many students were not engaged in

                                             7


   learning either set o f skills when the OED evaluator entered the class. Onthe positive
   side, all students had 1oo.se-leaftextbooks intheir possession.

   The Sana'a women's training institute, which specializes incosmetology and other
   traditionally feminine skills, has received curricula and trained instructors from
   Jordan and other countries. Nevertheless, attracting new instructors is difficult due to
   the low government salaries. Thus, there i s a paucity of qualified instructors. Ina
   second-year Englishclass the students were barely literate.

Management, demand, and industry linkages

e  All students interviewed had completed at least grade 9, andmost were secondary
   school graduates who did not enter the university. All were studying full-time. None
   o f them worked after hours and or studied to take over a family business. None paid
   any tuition other than a registration fee of about LJS$1.50, but clearly, they were not
   the poorest o f the poor. Some teachers expressed the view that these students might
   choose not to do manual work upon graduation. Thus, these students might not
   become the skilled workers expected through the project (also see Annex B).

e  The mechanical trades may accept students with basic education skills, but still no
   skills training i s available for those who are non-literate or barely literate. Only one o f
   the trainees interviewed lacked schooling, andthis person was a skilled welder who
  was completing competency tests inorder to obtain a needed diploma.

e  Students overall expressed satisfaction with the quality o f the programs they attended
   and expected that they would find satisfactory work upon graduation. A sampling o f
   5 classroom enrollments at the Dahaban institute revealed considerable demand for
  the mechanical courses, with classes subscribed beyond their capacity. However,
  there is also significant dropout (e.g., 12 o f 35 students, 34 percent ina welding
  course) as students apparently found other alternatives. Thus some programs may
  produce significantly fewer graduates fkom enrolled trainees.

e Interviews with five current and potential users of some graduates revealed a problem
  with competencies. Manygraduates are infact not qualified to carry out the needed
  work, particularly incommercial and secretarial areas, and may have difficulty
  getting employment. For example, it is quite difficult to find vocational training
  graduates who can handle English correspondence, and an employer must resort to
  university rather than vocational graduates.

e Interviews with the directors o f the training centers confirmed that linkages with the
  industry remain limited. Efforts are being made, but the number o f enterprises willing
  to take trainees for internships has been limited. Only 726 trainees out o f about 2800
  graduates received internships in2002 (See Table 2).

                                                             8


  Table 2. Number of Trainees Benefitingfrom BusinessInternshipsin2002
    Province           No.          Work            No.                     Implemented specialization
                   trainees         fields       trades
  Hndeidah.
    ---.--.            263            71            9       Electrician, mechanics, automobiles, carpentry,
                       ~~    ~
                                                            architecture, commerce, air condition, welding, electronics
  Taiz                 204            25            12      Electronics,fine arts, welding, electricity, electronic control,
                                                            computer programming and maintenance, light vehicles,
                                                            electrical engines, hydro pneumatic control
 Aden                    31           10            4       General hotel (front desk, food services, chief, room
                                                            service)
  Hydramaout             14           2             1       Lathing
 AI Almanah           214             26            5       Petrol vehicles, diesel vehicles, sanitary installations, metal
                                                            compounding, architecture
 Total                726            134            31
       Source: Ministry of Technical and vocational Education5

 2.10      The mission also interviewed government officials and donor staff involved with the
 project assessed inthis report and obtained opinions about actions and outcomes. (See Annex
 B and sections onBank andborrower performance.)

 2.11      It project succeeded ininitiating dialogue between the government and the private
 sector on reformingvocational education, developing competency-basedprograms, training
 trainers, and establishing the Skills Development Fundto augment funding for vocational
 training. However, the main project achievement i s increasedtraining capacity. Through
 refurbishment o f iindustrial training centers, commercial institutes, and workshops for the
 handicapped at least 1,120 student places were created. The proportion o f handicapped
 people receiving training increasedby 22 percent during the project, and the proportion o f
 women taking various courses (mainly commercial and women's vocational courses)
 increasedby 23 percent. However, the number o f trained workers fell short o f expectations.
 About 6,900 were to graduate after the project from various types o f training, 3,200 from
 vocational training centers (Annex 1Table A.3). Only about 2,800 graduated from the
 centers in2003, and other types o f training have been very limited. This figure may be
 compared to references inthe project files suggesting that about 2,100 trainees graduatedper
year from the various vocational training institutes before the project. Thus, the net increase
o f graduates may only be about 700 annually.

2.12       Because o f limited data, it i s unclear to what extent students get employment intheir
specialty. Ministry staff empirically estimate that about 75 percent o f graduates inindustrial
areas like Hodeida are able to get jobs, but clear data are lacking.




5. EuropeanTraining Foundation- World Bank. Technical Educationand Vocational Training in Yemen and its Relevance
to the LabourMarket. May 2004.

6. An intemal rate of retumof 16 percent was estimated during appraisal, but the documents do not describehow the figure
was obtained. (Vocational EducationProject, Staff Appraisal Report, 1995). However, the unemploymentrate of 19-20
percentin ages 15-24would probably bringthe rate ofretumto less than 10percent(Implementation Completion Report no.
28555, July 2004, p. 19).

                                                 9


 3.      Ratings

 Outcome

 3.1     The concept o f a demand-driven, high-quality system o f vocational training centers
 administered jointly by the government and the private sector was relevant to the needs o f the
 country. However, it turned out to be premature in 1995, and project efficacy was modest;
 only one o f three objectives (quality improvement) was fully achieved. Student dropout,
 limiteduse o f expensive installations, and a low net number o f graduates indicate that project
 efficiency was modest. Thus, project outcome i s rated moderately unsatisfactory.


 InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

 3.2     The risks involved inimplementing a complex project inthe sector were identified in
 the Staff Appraisal Report and ultimately expressed themselves indelays and
 underperformance by the project. A newly established authority proved unable to plan and
 implement a major reform program inthe face o f significant administrative and financial
 constraints. The appraisal documents suggest that these institutional problems would be
 solved through training, but this approach was ineffective. The limitations o f the
implementing agency were exacerbated by regulatory rigidities, such as laws limitingincome
generation by training centers and the procurement o fmaterials for workshops. Nevertheless,
the necessityto carry out multiple activities had a positive impact on the subsector. The
project funding could solve problems inthe Ministryo f Technical Education and Vocational
Training, and this process enabled various activities to take place that otherwise might not
have taken place. For these reasons, institutional development is rated modest.

Sustainability

3.3     The project components that were implemented effectively are likely offer sustained
benefits that may be resilient to changing conditions. The curricula are being used, and the
textbooks and equipment are available to the students. The specialties that are functional are
also likely to remain indemand, partlybecause there is a large demand by the student
population, which i s likely to stimulate further development. Also, the new long-term
strategy framework is likely to buildon past achievements and maintaintheir net benefits
over time. Increasingly, organized collaboration with donors is likely to maintain impetus
and bring inmore financing. For these reasons, sustainability is rated likely.

BankPerformance

3.4     Quality at entry was unsatisfactory. The multiple risks identifiedinthe Staff
Appraisal Report materialized andproved insurmountable. These included lack o f trust
between employers and the government, slow implementation and disbursements, limited
benefits to women, and the possibility that the expected cofinancing might not materialize.
However, the project documents do not show careful consideration o f these possibilities or
offer viable solutions. Also, the Bank was not proactive insecuring the needed cofinancing,
thus contributing to the loss o fdonor funds to builda suitable facility for women. Documents

                                                   10


 show that supervision missions were frequent, but they focused on procurement,
 disbursement, and implementationrather than strategy issues. For these reasons, Bank
 Performance i s rated unsatisfactory.

 3.5      Nevertheless, government officials and donor staff who were interviewedhad
 positive opinions regarding the Bank's policy and implementationfocus inYemen. In
 particular they viewedthe Bank as a well organized institution that practices evaluation,
 revision, monitoring, and follow up. Inthe opinions o f staff interviewed, ifthis project had
 not existed, Yemen's capability o fproviding vocational-technical education would be
 extremelylimited(Annex B).However, some officials and donor staff criticized the Bank for
 making loans to the sector that were too large and giving too muchmoney to institutions o f
 limitedimplementationcapacity. Some donor staffwere concerned that large amounts inure
 the government to funds that can be spent on trivia, such as new chairs for the ministry.
 Although the money i s disbursed, the investmentsmade with it may be questionable.
 Likewise,concerns were expressedto the missionthat large loans may also fuel corruption.

 BorrowerPerformance

 3.6     The project set an ambitious reform agenda for vocational education and training to
 which the government was not sufficiently committed. However, the government proved
 more interested inbuildings and quantitative expansion than policy reform. The procurement
 delays and inability to secure the neededdonor financing severely limitedthe ability to carry
 out the plannedprogram o f activities. The management informationsystem didnot become
functional, and lack o ftimely data on the status o fthe systemmade it hard to decide which
skills hadhigher demand. Finally, the government paid only 12.5 percent o f the expected
counterpart funds. For these reasons, borrower performance i s rated unsatisfactory.


4.       Issuesfor FutureConsideration
4.1      Although output targets o fthe assessedproject were not met and few women were
served, the project helpedthe government establish a demand-driven strategy inthis
education subsector. The dialogue i s continuingwith the formulation o f anew vocational
training strategy for Yementhat will attempt more systematically to integrate training
institutions and industry needs through demand-based training.7The government has shown
commitment to this strategy. The strategy includes vocational-technical training as an
important avenue for humanresource development; 15 percent o f students inthe coming
years are expected to attend this type of education. The long-term policy framework provides
for flexibility that currently does not exist: cost recovery from students able to pay, evening
short courses partly financed by employers, ability to hiremaster craftsmen to teach part-
time, higherpay for instructors incoursesthat involve cost-recovery, so that the best
professionals can be hiredand students can learn the skills needed.The new parallel track o f
the quasi-formal system may serve the needs o f dropouts who need skills more urgently than
diplomas with faster and more closely targeted training.



7.RepublicOfYemen. MinistryOf TechnicalEducationAnd VocationalTraining. TechnicalEducationAnd Vocational
TrainingStrategic DevelopmentPlan. June 2004.

                                                       11


 4.2      Thus, the vocationaltraining sector may performbetter inthe years to come. Future
 performance may be reinforcedby the increasing demand for the training. According to
 informal Ministryestimates, about 10,000 students applied inSana'a in2004, while capacity
 inall the city's training centers (about 3000) is at amaximum. The plannedexpansion ofthe
 system, however, raises concerns about allocationo f expenditures invarious education
 subsectors.Vocational training i s expensive and already absorbs a significant share o f
 education allocations. For example, in 1998, it absorbed 6 percent o f all sectoral resources,
 while enrolling only 0.2 percent oftotal students inpost-secondary education.* The coverage
 and efficiency o f the vocationaltraining sub-sector mustincrease ifit i s to serve the country
 without absorbing an inordinate amount o fresources.

 4.3      An issue that has yet to receive much attention invocational-technical training is
 instructional efficiency and use o f time. This issue i s particularly important giventhe large
 expenditures involved inthis type o f training and the limitedstudent achievement shown ina
 GTZ-financed survey and during OED visits. The ministry might consider the following:

          Train teachers to use class time better. Inprinciple, students shouldbe occupied all
          the time inlearningtasks. In-servicetraining might focus on this concept and train
          teachers to observe how time inclasses i s currently usedand activities canbe
          restructured to use it better.

          Organize classes to minimize unproductive time, such as moving equipment, or
          allowing students to remain idle while waiting for their tum on equipment. Solutions
          to consider might be offering equipmentpractice at various hours, particularly since
         the vocational training centers are usually usedfor only one shift. This altemative i s
         typically limitedby staff availability and security concerns. However, advanced
         students, recent graduates, andpractical craftsmen may be trained to supervise
         younger students. Arrangements couldbe made to allocate responsibilities and secure
         equipment.

         Focus teachers' attention on studentperformance, not merely on delivering the
         material. Insome classes, teachers seemed to have limitedinteraction with students
         (particularly female). They must ask evaluative questions and ascertain that students
         actually understood and learned the skills taught to them.

4.4      To monitor achievement and changes inthe supply and demand o f training, the
government andthe Bank have reliedon occasional tracer studies and on financial indicators
whilebuildingup amanagement informationsystem. Surveys indicatingthe extent to which
students have met the accreditation standards o f their specialty are feasible and desirable.
However, not all fields have well developed or implemented standards. Proxy variables can
also be used for quality o f education that actually monitor instructionaldelivery and
information flow. These include:

         The percentage oftime students are engagedinleaming tasks during one instructional
         hour (measurable through instruments such as the classroom snapshot).


8. Lockheed, Marlaine,ReginaBendokat, and Takako Yuki. Republic o f Yemen: EducationSector Assistance Strategy The
World Bank, HumanDevelopmentGroup MiddleEast& NorthAfrica MNSHDDiscussionPaper SeriesNo. 3.

                                               12


   0   Comparison between the curricular module covered at a particular time versus the
       module that should be covered.
   0   Brieftests on the extent to which students have mastered and can demonstrate the
       material taught inpreviously completedmodules.


5.     Lessons
       Experience with the assessedproject confirms a number o f OED lessons from the
vocationactechnical education subsector:


   0   Establishment o f functional training facilities i s necessary but not sufficient for
       producing skilled workers. The facilities must be financially viable over the long term
       inorder to hirethe necessary instructors andrenew their equipment andbuildings.
       Publicly financed vocational training centers are only viable when the government
       and the private sector establish ajoint and effective strategic framework that sets
       priorities and allocates resources to those priorities.

   0  Duringmission interviews, concerns were raised regarding dropout and limited
       employment inindustrial skills among the better educated students. Governments
      may view vocational training as a means o f helping school dropouts get jobs and
      alleviate their poverty. However, vocational training centers may select the better-
      educated students who are ultimately less likely to perform the type o f tasks for which
      they were trained. Admission criteria might be adapted to suit the needs o f less
      educated persons, who may have limited training opportunities.

  0   Duringmission interviews, concerns were raisedregarding the needs and
      occupational status o f students. Vocational training courses often require full-time
      attendance over one or more years. Such courses may be unsuitable to the most
      needy and less educated persons who need to work. A series o f shorter courses taught
      inthe evenings or weekends maybemore suitable to the work schedules o fthe poor.

  0   For vocational education projects to succeed, potential trainees and the private sector
      mustbe consulted onproject components, outcomes, and targets. A dialogue held
      exclusively with governments risks creating projects for which there i s relatively
      limited demand and commitment.

  0   Management information systems and tracer studies are important tools to monitor
      the needs o f beneficiaries. These activities must be given priority inprogramming
      project activities.

                                                    13


Annex A. ProjectActivities



TableA.l. BankInvestmentsinthe EducationSector ofYemen
     Completed        Project  Approval Original Closing   Revised   Credit   Project
      Projects         No.      Fiscal        Date         Closing    No.    Cost Final IDA Credit
                                Year                         Date           US$ million US$ million
Education            PO05757
(Primary/lech.-
YAR)                          1974      12/31/1978       12/31/1980  421    17          11
Education I
(PDRY)               PO05851  1975      6/30/1981        12/31/1981  494    8.77        5.4
Education II (YAR)   PO05764  1976      6/30/1982        6/30/1982   611    12.8        8
Education II
(PdRY)               PO05859  1979      6/30/1984        12/31/1984  865    6.98        4
Education 111 (YAR)  PO05772  1979      7131/ I988       7131/ I988  915    16.82       10
Education 111
(PDRY)               PO05866  1982      12/31/1990       12/31/1990  1222   8.3         6
Education IV (YAR)   PO05781  1982      12/31/1989       12/31/1989  1203   24.9        12
Education IV
PDRY)                PO05871  1984      12/31/ I992      12/31/1992  SF019  12          10.4
EducationV           PO05786  1983      6/30/1992        6/30/1992   1340   24.9        10
Education VI         PO05790  1984      5/30/1993        5/30/1993   1470   16.26       10.9
Teacher Training     PO05832  1987      3/31/1995        3/31I1995   1773   15.1        10.4
Technical Training   PO05802  1986      12/31/1993       12/31/1993  1645   10.9        5.559
Secondary
Teacher Training     PO05835  1991      12/30/1999       12/31/1999  2222   35.1        19.4
Basic Education      PO05904  1993      1213112000       12/31/2000  2412   25          19.7
Education Sector
Expansion            PO05911  1994      9/30/2004        9/30/2004   2570   49.7        33
Vocational Training  PO05912  1996      6/30/2002        12/31/2003  2793   24.3        20.6
                                                         Total              311.83      196.36
Active Projects
Basic Education
Expansion Project    PO43255  2001                       6/30/2006   3422   62.6        56
Higher Education     PO76183  2002                       12/31/2006  3674   5.5         5
Child Development    PO50483  2000                       12/31/2005  3326   45.34       28.9
                                                        Active              113.44      89.9
                                                         Projects
Total - all projects                                    Total
                                                                            326.28      286.26

                                                                 14


  TableA.2: CompletedprojectsinYemen
                Project               FY                               Activities                                 Outcomes
                                                                                                                PPAR or ICR
  Education(Primary/Tech.-YAR)             Vocational centers in Sana'a and                                 Execution
  Cr. 421                                  Hodeidah, Agricultural center in Ibb,                            satisfactory
                                           non-formal basic education center inAmran, district training
 Vocational technical education            centers in El Kaida and Bajil, curriculu development
  Basic training scheme for
 grassroots development
 associations                        1974
 Education I(PDRY) Cr. 494                 New farm machinery and rural skills training center, two         Execution
 Vocational and agricultural               rural development centers, new trade training center,            satisfactory
 education                                 prevocational curricula into basic education

                                     1975
                                           Training centers in Taiz and Dhamar, for vocational training     Execution
 Education I1(YAR) Cr. 611                 grades 7-8, nonformal evening courses upgraded; 480 annual       satisfactory
 Continued basic training scheme           output, capacity ;
 for grassroots associations               Low enrollments, primary school graduates attending
 Vocational technical education      1976  secondary education
 Education I1(PDRY) Cr. 865                Built 3 vocational training centers, two by converting           Execution
 Vocational education, first phase         secondary schools. Outputs only 31% of appraisal estimates       satisfactory
 for a network o f 14 institutions   1979  and only 2% o fthe enrollments were women.
                                           Built, equipped agncultural secondary school at Surdud, a        Satisfactory
 Education I11(YAR) Cr. 915                livestock secondary school at Sana'a.
 Agricultural education                                                                                     High enrollments,
                                     1979                                                                   good quality
 Education 111(PDRY) Cr. 1222              Built a commercial and an agricultural technical institute, an   Satisfactory
 Vocational education and teacher          in-service teacher training institute, a primary teachers'
 training for grades 9-12;                 training institute; provision of two mobile building
 Commercial and agricultural              maintenance units; a manpower planning study and a school
institutes                                inventory survey
 Establishmaintenance units
                                    1982
Education IV (YAR) Cr. 1203               Vocational training centers in Taiz and Hodeidah, dormitories     Satisfactory
Vocational technical education      1982
Education IV PDRY) Cr. SF019              Built a vocational instructor training instltute and a center for Satisfactory
                                          rural extension training
Vocational and technical training
                                    1984
Education V; Cr. 1340                     Built 3 district training centers inAI Turba and other areas;     Satisfactory
                                          For 3,700 places, 2,200 output
Nonformal education for
agricultural, vocational, basic
Iiteracy
                                    1983
Education VI; Cr. 1470                    Built 2 district training centers and several satellite basic     Satisfactory
                                          literacy and training centers.
Nonformal education for
agricultural, vocational, basic
literacy                            1984
                                           Was to build a polytechnic Institute to train technicians and    Unsatisfactory
Technical Training; Cr. 1645              instructors; a new Technical Secondary School, and the            Polytechnic institute
                                          rehabilitation of an existing one, and relocating a vocational    not built
Technical-vocational education            training center which had shared facilities with a technical
                                    1986  secondary school.

                                                               15


Table A.2. Vocational Development Project (Cr. 2793)

                                           Targets to be achieved   Outputs                     Outcomes
                                                                                        "~                    .-          __
                    Annual outputs when    6900 maduates:                                       The extentto which
                                                 I
                    fully operational      3200 vocational          About 2800 from             graduates are employedis
                                           training centers         vocational training centers uncertain; industrial areas
                                           1000enterprise-based     Other outputs limited,      more likely to employ them
                                           2000 continuing ed.      though unclear
                                           100high-tech
                                           1000handicapped
 Managementand                                                                                  Training programs
 financing U$2.7                                                                                continue to be supply
 m)                                                                                             driven, though situation
                                                                                                changing
 Governance         Sector planning        TA for management        45 senior staff trained     Vocational training centers
 structure (US$1.3  system                 capacity                 locally and abroad          acquiredsome autonomy
 m)
                    MISextension           Hardware                 Hardwareprovided            Partialdata, some tracer
                                           Software                 Softwareincompleteby        studies available
                                                                    end ofproject               NOfollow-up
 Skilldevelopment   Levy 1% to             TA                       In2003, there were 4,310    Slow start, limited
 fund (USrSl.9 m)   businesseswith IO+    No specific targets      participantsin 192 training  activities
                    employees and non-                             program for 376              Assessing training needs
                    Yemeni employees                                enterprisesaidedby 78       and arrangingfor demand-
                                                                   trainers (organizationsand   driven training.
                                                                   individuals)
                    Local development     Inall cities             5 established, 2 active      Where councils are active,
                    councils                                       (Taiz, Hodeida)              they participate in decision
                                                                   Nationalcouncil for          and in assessing graduating
                                                                   vocational training dormant  students
Quality                                                                                         Curricula are updatedand
improvement                                                                                     modernized, textbooks
(US$30.82m)                                                                                     offered to students
Instructional       Curricula,            No targets specified     According to the ICR, 2500   The new curricula are used
capacity            assessments                                    modules were developed.      extensively
                                                                   According to curricular
                                                                   director, 185moduleswere
                                                                   developed in 13 specialties
                   Instructional                                   About 185 modules            Students receiveloose-leaf
                   materials                                                                    notebooks
Inservice training Inservice training of  Train all vocational     Centers createdinAden,       Trainers often conduct
(USS2.2 m)         trainers               ed. trainers (sufficient Sana'a, Taiz                 training sessions
                                          nos. existed)            140 trainers trained
                                          3 master trainers in
                                          each center
Continuing         TA for establishing    No clear targets         Continuingeducation          Cost recoverynot possible
education(US3.5    programsin training                             under development
m)                 centers
Strengthening      Buildings              12 industrial            20 vocational training       Tourism center built after
selected centers                          2 commerce               centers rehabilitated        the project
(US$28.9m)                                1hotel-tourism           (excluding tourism)
                                                                   1800new places created
                   Equipment and          Expectedbeneficiaries    To 57 vocational training    Newprogramsdeveloped
                   upgraded facilities to 4600 students            centers                      relevant to marketneed.
                   increase student       female participationto   56 new workshops
                   places                 increaseby 26%           At least 1120places
                                                                   Femaleparticipation
                                                                   increasedby 23%
                   New programs           1000students             Operation started at project No impact by project end
                                                                   closing
                   Annual output          3200 from vocational     From2100 in 1995             Output fell below target
                   increase               training centers         To 2800 in 2003

Handicapped        Funds availablefor     30% over base of         6 centersreceived            Orthopedicsworkshop
rehabilitation     mainstreaming          2000                     equipmentand TA              provides training and
(US1.3 m)          handicapped                                     Proportion ofhandicapped     rehabilitations
                                                                   receiving training increased
                                                                   bv 22%
Underserved        Civil works,           Capacity200              Deletedfrom project          No outcome

                                                           16


Components/
subcomponents     Activities            Targets to be achieved Outputs               Outcomes

regions(US$4.7    equipment, materials  graduates                                     To be completedafter the
m7                2 pilot vocational                                                 project
                  centers(1 hightech)

Adult education                                                Deleted fromproject    No outcome
and training for
women (US6 m)
Institutional     New curricula         literacy skills,                              Subsequentlylimited
development       Teacher training      nutrition,                                    interestby the Ministryof
                                        bookkeeping,family                            Education
                                        planning
Project funding   Civil works, vehicles                        Only about $700spent
facility (US4.8

                                                17


Annex B. Statements and Issues Raised inMission Interviews

    Interviews o f staff took place individually or in small groups as the circumstances
dictated. Ten professionals were interviewed:

       4 directors inthe institutions o f areas visited;
    0  4 govemment officials inthe ministryo f Technical Education and Vocational
       Training.
    0  2 staff members o f donor agencies residing in Sana'a.

    The table below reflects the number o f respondents who indicated a view on each
question; persons could raise one or more issues but an opinion brought up repeatedly by the
same person counted as one comment. Not all staff had opinions about all questions and
sometimes only one person ina group expressed opinions, so reply statistics are approximate.
Teachers were only asked questions regarding inputs and effectiveness, since most didnot
know who had paid for the inputs they hadreceived. The questions posed to respondents
were:

   e   What were the benefits o f the project in your school, geographic or sectoral area?
   e   What problems did you face inimplementing the project? What were its
       disadvantages?
   e   Which components worked best inbringingabout results, which did not? (some
       persons interviewed were asked about specific components, as appropriate).
   e   H o w effective were the Bank staff or consultants who worked on the project?
   0   What training did you receive through the project? Didit teach you what it was
       supposed to?
   0   What would be different inthe education sector ifthe project hadnot existed?
   0   Other issues and observations

                                                                18


 Table B.1
 Issue                                                                                Frequency of .
                                                                                      responses
 Project benefits
 - Cash infusion to the ministry,which had no other funds; ability to buy small
 items needed.                                                                               1
 -Project laid the foundation for future strategy.                                           1
 -Project helped the Ministry improve implementation capacity.
 - Training                                                                                  3
              centers benefited from repairs and equipment                                   4

 --
 Most and least effective components
    Developed modular curricula effectively.                                                 4
    Involved craftsmen in establishing standards.                                            2
 - Established the skills development fund (to become more effective later)                  1
 -Effectiveness      of Bank staff, Bank policies
    The Bank offered excellent follow-up and support.
 -- The                                                                                      3
         Bank did not emphasize quality of education in vocational education,                3
    The Bank gives too much money, both the new and the old projects were
 huge. The Ministry will spend the money, but it may be spent on trivia and
 gifts.                                                                                      3
 Counterfactual       -if   project had not existed
 -If the project had not existed, the state of the vocational training centers
 would be very bad [but then mostly OPEC financed civil works], particularly
 because there were buildings destroyed from the 1994 civil war.                             1
 -The project was invaluable, without it little would have been accomplished                 4
 -Issues areand observations
   There        difficulties in generalizing project effects, but it is expected they
 -willVocational
       be overcome.                                                                          4
                education is not crowding out primary education, because donors
finance both.                                                                                1
- Vocational education upgrading may be used as another pretext for
 corruption. The government wants to formalize apprenticeships and regulate
them, thus may get money under the table for allowing non-compliance.
-                                                                                            2
   Reliable people matter a lot and there are not many among local staff. The
project really needs expatriate administrators.
- The                                                                                        1
         OPEC management was very poor and caused a great deal of
needless work to the project. It disbursed after lengthy delays, had
unreasonable demands for procurement, repeatedly changed its mind, and
does not harmonize its procedures with other donors.
- Councils                                                                                   1
              may make decisions but are not really responsible. So people who
show up twice a year may make decisions on unknown basis for which they
have noconsequences.
                                                                                             1
- Training centers choose the best and brightest students, not those who are
more likely later to do manual work. The students who can afford to spend 2-
3 years in training may not later work on what jobs are available.
                                                                                             2
The NGOs that run training programs are often not qualified and may be fake.
They may tell an inspector to wait while they gather in the room any women
from the street to make believe training is going on.                                        1
Training councils may make decisions but are not really responsible. So
people who show up twice a year and make decisions are not accountable for
the consequences.                                                                            1
Total number of comments received from 10 persons                                           44

                                                       19


Annex C. Basic Data Sheet

VOCATIONALTRAININGPROJECT(CREDIT 2793-YR)


                                                    Appraisal           Actual or            Actual as % of
                                                    Estimate         current estimate      appraisal estimate
IDA Credit                                            24.3                20.6                     85
Cofinancing                                           26.0                11.0                     42
Government                                             9.5                 4.6                     48
Total project costs                                   59.8                36.2                     61


CumulativeEstimatedandActual Disbursements(US$million)
                           FY96        FY97   FY98     FY99       FYOO     FYOI      FY02      FY03      FY03
Appraisal estimate         0.31        2.33   4.70     10.20      12.53    14.14     14.920    15.38     15.69
Actual                     0.00        0.36   1.66     2.53       3.70     10.43     12.93     14.05     15.26
Actual as % of estimate    0.0         15.45  35.3     24.8       29.5     73.8      86.7      91.4      97.3
Date of final disbursement:April 30, 2004




                                                           Original                          Actual           -
Identification                                         December 6, 1993
Appraisal                                               March 15, 1995                   March 15, 1995
Approval                                              December 12, 1995                 December 12, 1995
Effectiveness                                            April 7, 1996                    August 7,1996
Mid Term Review                                       November 30, 1999                   June 30,2000
Credit closing                                          June 30,2003                    December 31, 2003


StaffInputs(staff weeks)
                                                 US$ (000)
 Identification/Preparation                       122,000
 Appraisal/Negotiation                            120,000
 Supervision                                      476,000
 ICR                                              30,000
 Total                                            748,000

                                                             20


Mission Data
                                                                                                    Performance rating
                                Date       No. of
                            (month/year)  persons            Specializations represented        Implement   Development
                                                                                               ation status  objectives
  Identification/            01/28/1994       5         Sr. Educator, Operations Officer, Sr.
  Preparation                                           ImplementationSpecialist, Financial
                                                           Analyst, Sr. Education Specialist
                             03/27/1994       4         Sr. Education Specialist, Operations
                                                      Officer, Sr. Economist, Financial Analyst
                             10/08/1994       6         Sr. Education Specialist, Economist,
                                                         Financial Analyst, Implementation
                                                      Specialist, Labor Market Specialist, VTE
                                                                       Specialist
  AppraisaY                  1211611994       4          Sr. Education Specialist, Education
  Negotiation                                          Specialist, Implementation Specialist,
                                                                  Gender Specialist
                            0311511995        8          Sr. Education Specialist, Education
                                                            Specialist, Financial Analyst,
                                                         Implementation Specialist, Gender
                                                      Specialist, Labor Market Specialist, VTE
                                                                    Specialist (2)
  Supervision 1             03113/1996        5          Education Specialist, Sr. Educator,
                                                       Operations Officer, Sr. Implementation
                                                         Specialist, Sr. Education Specialist
 Supervision 2              06/17/1996        3        Education Specialist, Implementation         S            S
                                                           Specialist, Operations Officer
 Supervision 3              11/04/1996        3        Operations Officer, Sr. Implementation       S            S
                                                           Specialist, Education Specialist
 Supervision 4              0411711997        1            Sr. Implementation Specialist            S            S
 Supervision 5              12/06/1997        1            Sr. Implementation Specialist            S            S
 Supervision 6              0512111998                     Sr. Implementation Specialist            S            S
 Supervision 7              10/09/1998        3       Sr. Implementation Specialist, Technical      S            S
                                                            Educator, Financial Analyst
 Supervision 8              11/15/1999        3       Economist, Sector Manager, Operations        U             S
                                                                       Officer
 Supervision 9              06/30/2000        7         Operations Officer, VTE Specialist,        U             S
                                                          Research Analyst, Labor Market
                                                        Specialist, Sr. Economist, Financial
                                                       Management Specialist, Employment
                                                                 Program Specialist
 Supervision 10             05113l2001        3        Economist, Implementation Specialist,
                                                                 Operations Officer                 S            S

 Supervision 11             05/06/2002        3         Operations Officer, VTE Specialist,         S            S
                                                                 Program Assistant
 Supervision 12             0810112002       2         Sr. Operations Officer, VTE Specialist      S             S
 Supervision 13             10101I2003       3        Sr. Operations Officer, VTE Specialist,      U             S
                                                                 Operations Analyst
ICR                         0111812004       3        Sr. Operations Officer, VTE Specialist,      S             S
                                                                 Ooerations Analvst

Sr: Senior; VTE: Vocational and Technical Education.
Performance ratings: S: Satisfactory; U:Unsatisfactory.




