Page  1
October 
23, 2000
H. E. Dr. Ahmed Mohamed Sofan
Minister of Planning and Development
Ministry of Planning and Development
P.O. Box 175
Sana’a, Republic of Yemen
Re:
Vocational Training Project (Credit No. 2793-YEM)
Amendment to Credit Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") 
relating to the Vocational Training Project between the Republic of Yemen (the 
"Borrower") and the International Development Association (the "Association"), 
dated January 17, 1996, as amended.  We also refer to the Borrower's request, 
dated January 10, 1999, to drop the Adult Education and Training for Females 
component of the Project.
We are pleased to inform you that, after consideration, the Association 
has acceded to the Borrower's request.  Accordingly, the Credit Agreement is 
hereby amended as follows:
1.
In Section 1.02, paragraph (c) shall be deleted and paragraphs (d), (e), 
(f), (g) and (h) shall be re-lettered (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g), respectively.
2.
In Section 3.01 (a), the sentence “and shall carry out Part C of the 
Project through MOE” shall be deleted.
3.
In the first paragraph of Schedule 2, the word “and” shall be inserted 
prior to the numeral “(ii)”, the semi-colon after the words “expansion of new 
programs” shall be deleted and a full stop shall be inserted in its place, and 
the words “and (iii) improve the relevance of adult education and training 
programs for women and reorient such programs through the participation of 
communities” shall be deleted.
4.
In Schedule 2, Part C of the Project shall be deleted, Part D of the 
Project shall be re-lettered C and all references in the Credit Agreement to 
Part D of the Project shall be deemed to refer to the new Part C of the Project.
5.
In Schedule 4, paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be deleted, and paragraphs 5, 6, 
7, 8 and 9 shall be re-numbered 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, respectively.
6.
All the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement that have not been 
amended hereby shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating the 
confirmation on the enclosed copy of this Letter Amendment and returning it to 
the Association.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION       
By /s/ Inder Sud
Director
Middle East Departement
Middle East and North Africa Region
Page  2
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Ahmed Mohamed Sofan
