CREDIT NUMBER 2793 YEM
Development Credit Agreement
(Vocational Training Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  ajNuar      , 1996


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2793 YEM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated --mSLx   u     j        , 1996, between the REPUBLIC
OF YEMEN (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)    the Association has received a letter, dated March 22, 1995, describing
a program of actions, objectives and policies for the development of the Borrower's
vocational training sector (hereinafter referred to as the "Program");
(C)    the Borrower intends to contract from bilateral and multilateral aid
development organizations (Cofinanciers) loans or grants (the Cofinancing) in an
aggregate amount equivalent to twenty-six milFon dollars ($26,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project on terms and conditions to be set forth in agreements (the
Cofinancing Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and Cofinanciers; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)    the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank pr for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the


﻿-2-
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association,
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "GAVTT" means the General Authority for Vocational and Technical
Training, an autonomous public entity established and operating under the Borrower's
Decree-Law No. 64 issued on May 24, 1995, or any successor thereto;
(b)    "MSSL" means the Borrower's Ministry of Social Security, Social Affairs
and Labor;
(c)    "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
(d)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April
21, 1995 and June 11, 1995 between the Borrower and the Association;
(e)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
(f)    "SDF" means the Skills Development Fund for Financing of Technical
and Vocational Training established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree-Law No. 15 issued
on May 24, 1995;
(g)    "Category" means any category of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(h)    "fiscal year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any
of the Borrower's fiscal years, which period commences on January I and ends on
December 31 in each calendar year.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
United States Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding
as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set


﻿-4-
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06.  Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March I and September I in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
March 1 and September 1 commencing on March 1, 2006 and ending on September 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 1, 2015
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated


﻿-5-
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cary out Parts
A (1) and A (3) of the Project through MSSL, shall carry out Parts A (2), B and D of the
Project through the GAVTT, and shall carry out Part C of the Project through MOE, all
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educational,
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and
without limitation thereon, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association,
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices: (i) the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and
(ii) the operations, resources and expenditures of the SDF.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including those for the Special Account and the
SDF for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;


﻿-7-
(iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    that the Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to become effective by
December 31, 1997, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however,
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)    (i)      Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
any of the loans or grants included in the Cofinancing
.shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Cofinancing Agreement providing therefor, or
(B)    any of the loans, included in the Cofinancing, shall
have become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of


﻿-8-
its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
(c)    that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(d)    Decree-Law No. 15 issued on May 24, 1995 shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived as to affect materially and adversely the
operations of the SDF.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a) that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section; and
a    (b) that the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Development
P. 0. Box 175
Sana'a
Republic of Yemen
Cable address:        Telex:
CENPLAN              2266 CENPLAN YE
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                     248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-10-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By ksj                          N  b             \;0
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL, EVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Midle East and North Africa


﻿-11-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit                % of
Allocated           Expenditures
(Expressed in            to be
Category                 SDR Equivalent)         Financed
(1)    Civil Works               7,150,000           80%
(2)    Equipment,                6,050,000           100% of foreign
maintenance,                                   expenditures
vehicles,                                      100% of local ex-
furniture,                                     penditures (ex-
and educational                                factory cost) and
materials                                      90% of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)    Consultants                650,000            100% of foreign
services, training,                            expenditures
workshops, seminars                            and 80%
and fellowships                                of local
expenditures
(4)    Refunding of               650,000            Amounts due
Project                                        pursuant to
Preparation                                    Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                        of this Agreement
(5)    Unallocated               1,200,000
TOTAL                    15,700,000


﻿-12-
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for each contract for: (i) works
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $600,000; (ii) goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $75,000; (iii) the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $100,000; and (iv) the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, all under such terms and conditions
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿-13-
SCHEDULE 2                  rnm,
-n r
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (i) strengthen policy-
making, management and financing of the vocational training system by providing a
major role to the private sector; (ii) improve the quality and relevance of vocational
training programs through the enhancement of existing programs and the selective
expansion of new programs; and (iii) improve the relevance of adult education and
training programs for women and reorient such programs through the participation of
communities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A: Management and Financing
1.     Provision of a governance structure for vocational training through establishment
of: (i) a National Council for Vocational Training for policy formulation; (ii) Local
Councils for Vocational Training to provide local governance to vocational training
centers; and (iii) Local Training Program Advisory Committees to ensure program
relevance.
2.     Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance, of the system within
GAVTT for planning, policy implementation and organization development in the
vocational training sector and establishment of a management information system for
vocational training.
3.     Strengthening and operation of the SDF through the provision of technical
assistance.
Part B: Quality ImRrovement
1.     Strengthening institutional capacity for curriculum development, including
trainee assessment and instructional material development, through the provision of
technical assistance and educational materials.
2.     Provision of in-service training to instructors in vocational training, including
pedagogic training, technical skill development, and industrial training.


﻿-14-
3.     Development of a system for continuing education for employees of business and
industry, including development of managers through continuing education programs in
vocational training centers, the establishment of management information systems, and
establishment of a high-technology center.
4.     Strengthening selected vocational training centers, through improvement of
instructional resources, rehabilitation of facilities, equipment, furniture and educational
materials.
5.     Strengthening programs for rehabilitation of the physically handicapped through
improving and expanding the provision of vocational training.
Part C: Adult Education and Training for Females
1.     Development of the institutional capacity of adult education and training centers,
including: (i) development of new curriculum; (ii) training of facilitators in participatory
approaches; (iii) training of instructors in community-identified income generating skills;
(iv) management training for selected adult education and training centers; and (v)
seminars and workshops for staff of selected adult education and training centers.
2.     Strengthening  selected  adult education  and training  centers, including
improvement of instructional resources, rehabilitation of facilities, equipment, vehicles,
furniture and educational materials.
3.     Provision of technical assistance to adult education and training centers and rural
banks in order to promote, in an organized manner, the production and sale of marketable
products of adult education and training centers.
Part D: Pilot Centers for Future Vocational Training
Establishment, on a pilot basis, of selected labor market-oriented vocational
training centers so as to lead the Borrower's vocational training system towards effective
cooperative programs with the private sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.


﻿-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
Goods and works shall be procmed .in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a) Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $2,000,000 and contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $200,000.
(b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to
be carried out by domestic contractors.


﻿-16-
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or less per contract and $6,100,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    International Shoping
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract and $4,300,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.     National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and $300,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$600,000 or more, and with respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $75,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿-17-
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  EmploMent of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (i) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (ii) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms; (iii) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; (iv) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above; or (v) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿-18-
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    (a)    The Borrower shall maintain the National Council for Vocational Training
for the purpose of providing a policy framework for vocational training centers with
membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, including majority
representation from employers contributing to the SDF.
(b)    The Borrower shall maintain Local Councils for Vocational Training for
the purpose of providing organizational, administrative staffing and instructional oversight
to respective vocational training centers with membership and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, including majority representation from employers
contributing to the SDF.
(c)    The Borrower shall maintain Local Training Program     Advisory
Committees for each program specialization area with membership and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
(d)    For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the execution of
Parts A (2) and B of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the Project Implementation
Unit within GAVTT with organization, staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
2.     (a)   SDF contributions to vocational training centers shall be in accordance
with guidelines, criteria and procedures agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
including the requirement that vocational training centers comply with policies formulated
by the National Council for Vocational Training.
(b)    The Borrower shall present to the Association for approval not later than
one (1) month prior to the scheduled start of implementation proposals for support to
training centers for the physically handicapped estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more.
3.     (a)   For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the execution of Part
C of the Project, the Borrower shall establish a Technical Committee with representation
from concerned Ministries, as well as non-governmental organizations.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause the Technical Committee to select adult
education and training centers for support under the Project in accordance with guidelines,
criteria and procedures agreed between the Borrower and the Association, including the


﻿-19-
requirement that proposals for support specify: (i) how recurrent costs for facilities and
equipment maintenance would be financed; (ii) how contributions from communities
would be obtained; (iii) how income would be generated from training activities; and (iv)
how contributions and earnings would be utilized.
(c)    The Borrower shall present to the Association for approval not later than
one (1) month prior to the scheduled start of implementation proposals for support to
adult education and training centers estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more.
4.     (a)    The Borrower shall cause the MOE to select an individual with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association to fill the position of
Coordinator for Adult Education and Training and shall appoint the individual selected
to that position not later than June 1, 1996.
(b)    The Borrower shall appoint a non-governmental organization with
experience satisfactory to the Association to manage the technical assistance for Part C
of the Project.
5.     For the purpose of ensuring the proper execution of Part D of the Project, the
Borrower shall submit for the Association review and approval pilot vocational training
centers selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association.
6.     In order to foster the successful implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall
ensure that any consultants required for the Project and not financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall have qualifications and experience, and be employed under terms of
reference, satisfactory to the Association.
7.     In order to strengthen the financial base of vocational training centers and adult
education and training centers, income generated by student fees and other income
generating activities would be retained by respective centers pursuant to policy guidelines
satisfactory to the Association.
8.     Before November 1 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on the basis
of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Association, review whether
the budgets in respect of the current fiscal year and the next following fiscal year include
allocations sufficient to meet the requirements for: (i) salaries and maintenance of
buildings and equipment for vocational training centers and adult education and training
centers; and (ii) implementation of the Project, and shall furnish to the Association a copy
of such review upon its completion. In light of the findings of said review, the Borrower
shall promptly take all actions required to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the
Project, taking into consideration the recommendations of the Association.


﻿-20-
9.     Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions:
(a)    by December 31, 1996 the Borrower, through GAVTT, shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report containing baseline data with respect to indicators
agreed between the Association and the Borrower.
(b)    by March 31 of each year, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report of the SDF contributions made to vocational training centers for the
preceding year in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)    by May 31, 1999, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association for its review and comments, a report on the progress achieved in carrying
out the Project, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and
(d)    (i)    the Borrower and the Association shall, not later than June 30,
1999, hold a mid-term exchange of views on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project, including an
assessment of the existing demand for vocational training centers
to be established under Part D of the Project; and
(ii)   thereafter, the Borrower shall prepare a joint work program with
the Association and take all measures necessary to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, taking into consideration the results and
conclusions of the report referred to in paragraph (c) hereof and
the Association's views on the matter.


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $1,500,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall fiunish to
the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits vhich do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)   (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
funish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿-22-
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposts into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c) if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.


﻿-23-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
- Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


