Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
C6S /s O- -<
Report No- 5372-ZR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 21, 1985
Transportation Projects Division I
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   Zaire (Z)
Z 1.00               =          US$0.028
US$1.00              =          Z 40.0
(as of January 1985)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)              =          3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)         =          0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2) =          0.386 square miles
1 square meter (m2)      =          10.76 square feet
I cubic meter (mi3)      =          1.13 cubic yards
1 metric ton (ton)       =          2,204 pounds
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB     -     African Development Bank
AGCD     -     Administration Generale de la Cooperation au Developpement
(Belgium)
CFMK     -     Chemin de Fer de Matadi a Kinshasa
CIDA     -     Canadian International Development Agency
CMZ      -     Compagnie Maritime Zairoise
EDF      -     European Development Fund
ERR      -     Economic Rate of Return
GET      -     Groupe d'Etudes de Transport
FRG      -     Federal Republic of Germany
KfW      -     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of Germany)
LNTP     -     Laboratoire National des Travaux Publics
MP       -     Ministry of Planning
-MPF     -     Ministry of Portfolio
MPW      -     Ministry of Public Works
MTC      -     Ministry of Transport and Communications
ONATRA   -     Office National des Transports
OR       -     Office des Routes
PIP      -     Public Investment Program
RVA      -     Regie des Voies Aeriennes
RVF      -     Regie des Voies Fluviales
RVM      -     Regie des Voies Haritimes
SGMTP    -     Service de Gestion du Materiel des Travaux Publics
SNCZ     -     Societg Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
UK       -     United Kindgom
USAID    -     United States Agency for International Development
VOC      -     Vehicle Operating Cost
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
SiT  EHGHRA  PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary                                           Mi)
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR           .......................................
A.  Background ..............................................          1
B.  The Transport System ...................................           1
C.  Sector Organization ....................................    2
D.  Sector Strategy, Planning, Needs and Main Issues .......    3
E.  Bank Experience ic the Transport Sector ....          ............    7
F. Rationale for the Bank Group's Involvement in the
Proposed Project .................                                8
II.  TuE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR                                                   9
A. The Road Network.                                                   9
B.  Road Use ..........        .....................................    9
C.  Organization of the Highway Subsector ....          ..............   11
D. Office des Routes: Organization, Personnel,-
Equipment, Operations, Accounting and Financing .... ....  12
E.  OR's 1986-88 Comprehensive Highway Program ....         .........  16
III. THE PROJECT .       ................................................   21
A.  Objectives ..........        ...................................   21
B.  Project Description ....................................   21
C.  Cost Estimates and Project Financing .23
D.  Implementation and Monitoring ..........................   25
E. Procurement .26
F.  Disbursements ..........................................   27
G.  Auditing & Reporting Requirements .....          .................   29
B.  Environmental Aspects ........        ..........................   29
IV.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ....          ............  30
A.  General ................................................   30
B.  Benefits and Beneficiaries ......          .......................   30
C.  Economic Analysis ..........       ............................   31
D.  Risks ..................................................    33
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS ......................   35
This report was prepared by J-C. Crochet (Economist) and R. Schaballie
(Highway Engineer) who appraised the project in June/July 1984. Mr. C.
Tran-Luu (Training Specialist) also participated in the Appraisal Mission.
Thi doment has a rercteddistnbution and may be used by rpents only in the perfornce of|
their ofracial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorizabo |



ANNEXES
1.1 Structure of Fuel Prices
2.1 National and Main Regional Roads
2.2 Road Condition by Region
2.3 Estimates of Traffic Volumes
2.4 Yearly Consumption of Gasoline and Diesel Oil
2.5  OR's Training Results:  1981 to 1983
2.6  Technical Assistance to OR at end 1985
2.7  Renewal Value of OR's Equipment Fleet
Age of Major Items in OR's Equipment Fleet
2.8  Summary Description of OR's Ferry Fleet
2.9  Funds Received by OR from Government Sources
2.10 OR's 1986-88 Comprehensive Highway Program
2.11 Economic Criteria for the Analysis of Highway Sub-sector Projects
3.1 OR's 1986-88 Objectives for Maintenance by Force Account
3.2 Regional Distribution of OR's 1986 Objectives for Maintenance by Force
Account
3.3 Maintenance Objectives for OR's Working Units
3.4 OR's 1985-88 Training Plan
3.5 Quarterly Progress Reports
4.1 Vehicle Operating Costs
4.2 Routine and Periodic Maintenance of Gravel/Earth Roads
Road Condition in  With  and -Without Project  Cases
4.3 Routine and Periodic Maintenance of Gravel/Earth Roads
Cost and Benefit Streams
4.4 Economic Analysis of OR's Road Repaving Program - Main Assumptions
4.5 Repaving of Paved Roads - Costs and Benefits Streams
5.1 Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
Chart I - Organization Chart of Office des Routes
Chart 2 - Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
Zaire's Transportation Network - IBRD 16564 Ri



ZAIRE
Sixth Highway Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Zaire
Amount:               SDR 55.5 million (US$55.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA terms
Project Description:-The project's main objectives are to (i) help continue
and consolidate the country-wide bridge, road and fer-
ry rehabilitation and maintenance programs and (ii)
strengthen the administration and training capabili-
ties of Office des Routes (OR), the public agency in
charge of the main road network. To this end, the
project would support key components of OR's 1°86-88
comprehensive highway program and would include (i)
routine and periodic maintenance of the main roads
(including ferry operations) through the provision of
equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies; (ii)
bridge repair and maintenance; (iii) construction of
access ramps for ferries; (iv) strengthening OR's
management through technical assistance, consulting
services and office equipment; and (v) training.
Project Benefits
and Risks:           The main project benefits would be lower vehicle ope-
rating costs, better use of vehicle because of higher
speed, and higher reliability of road transport with
an overall positive effect on the balance of pay-
ments. Main risks associated with the project are
that (i) OR's productivity could be lower because of
unforeseen changes in OR's organization and
management, fuel shortages or inadequate local funding
and (ii) traffic would not increase. These risks have
been taken into account in the design of the project.



( ii)
Estimated Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total   Foreign
US$ million*
I.  Road Maintenance by Force Account    5.46    30.90    36.36        85
II.  Bridge Repair and Maintenance         1.67      3.00     4.67      64
III.  Construction of Access Ramps
tor £eerr2es                          0.73      0.90     1.63      55
IV. Technical Assistance, Consulting
Services and Office Equipment         0.74     5.89      6.63      89
V.  Training                              0.13      1.50     1.63       92
Total Base Cost                       8.73    42.19    50.92       83
VI. Contingencies
Mi)  Physical (10%)                        0.87      4.22     5.09
(ii) Prices                                1.78      8.59    10.37
Sub-total VI               2.365    T.81T   15          83
Total Cost (Net of Taxes)l/          11.38    55.00    66.38       83
* January 1985 prices
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign       Total
-US$ million      - -
Proposed IDA Credit        -          55.00        55.00
Government               11.38          -          11.38
Total            11.38         55.00       66.38
Estimated IDA Disbursements
FY86     FY87     FY88      FY89     FY90
~~~ ~ -US$ million------  
Annual             6.5      18.5     20.0       9.0     1.0
Cumulative         6.5      25.0     45.0     54.0    55.0
Economic Rate of
Return:              About 40X for road maintenance (including technical
assistance) which account for 84% of total project
costs.
1/ Project items would be exempt from taxes and duties.



ZAIRE
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
I. - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      Zaire, the third largest country in Africa, covers an area of 2.3
million km2.  Nearly the entire country lies within the watershed of the
Zaire River, the many tributaries of which affect practically the entire
country. The population of about 30 million is unevenly distributed; some
regions, such as the tropical forest which covers the center of the coun-
try, are almost deserted, while others, mostly in the periphery, are dense-
ly populated. Overall population growth is about 2.7% annually. However,
the urban population is growing at 7% due to rural migration with the re-
sult that about one-third of the people live in cities. The main economic
activities, agriculture and mining, are situated in peripheral areas of the
country, sometimes as far as 2,000 km from the capital or the nearest sea-
port.   All these factors explain the critical role of transport in the
economy.
1.02      For various reasons, both internal and external, the Zairian eco-
nomy has declined since 1975. GNP per capita has decreased to less than
US$200 in 1983.  Inflation, fueled by deficit financing, ran high, and
arrears on repayment of external debt mounted. As foreign exchange became
scarcer, imports had to be curtailed resulting in acute shortages of
materials and spare parts.   This, in turn, has led to deterioration of
mining,  manufacturing  and  transport  facilities.    Moreover,  as  the
Government's revenues shrank, its ability to fund investments also
diminished.  This unfavorable economic environment has severely hampered
the transport sector, further constraining a possible economic recovery.
B. The Transport System
1.03       Zaire's transport system is an interconnected network of rivers,
railways and roads linked at strategic points. The dominant element in the
system is the Zaire River and its tributaries which provide some 15,000 km
of navigable waterways. This network of rivers has been complemented by
about 5,000 km of railways in several separate lines to form a rail/river
system for interregional  transport  and external access.   Most  of the
145,000 km of roads, of which only 2,400 km are paved, were built to pro-
vide local access and to feed into the rail and river network.  However,
while river and rail transport have stagnated in the recent past, road
transport has continued to grow and now also provides for interregional
transport. The country has one main seaport, Matadi, and two major inland
ports, Kinshasa and Ilebo which connect rail and river transport.  There
are about 150 airfields and airstrips in Zaire, of which 30 are served by
local airlines. Three airfields can accommodate wide-bodied aircraft. Two
pipelines transport refined petroleum products from Matadi to Kinshasa.



- 2 -
1.04       The main traffic corridor in Zaire is the Voie Nationale (VN), a
multimodal chain of transport comprised of the railway line from the Shaba
mining area to Ilebo port on the Kasai River, barge transport from Ilebo to
Kinshasa on the Zaire River, rail transport from Kinshasa to Matadi, and
maritime transport from Matadi port through the Zaire estuary to the sea.
The VN is crucially important to Zaire because it is the only evacuation
route for its mineral exports entirely within the country.  Minerals ac-
count for about 60Z of its foreign exchange earnings.  Road transport, in
general, is complementary to rail and river transport but it is assuming an
increasingly important role in supplying the urban centers with food from
their agricultural hinterland and the rural areas with agriculture imputs
and processed goods.
1.05         Zaire's transport system is, in general, adequate given the
country's level of development and the distribution of population. There
are, however, severe limitations on its capacity because of the poor avail-
ability of equipment and the bad condition of irnfrastructure. Zaire's eco-
nomic decline, the shortages of local funds and foreign exchange and some
inappropriate decisions concerning tariffs, budget allocations and invest-
ment incentives have resulted in low levels of maintenance and asset re-
placement. Zaire is now faced with an accumulation of worn out, unreliable
and outmoded equipment and facilities that translate into poor service and
high  transport  costs.   Ongoing Bank  Group  projects  are assisting  the
Government in redressing this situation.   The proposed project continues
these efforts.
C. Sector Organization
1.06       The organization of the sector, largely the result of extensive
studies prepared about a decade ago, is basically sound and for the time
being serves the sector satisfactorily.   Three large parastatal agencies
dominate  the  transport  sector:    (i)  the Office  des  Routes  (OR),  the
national agency responsible for road construction and maintenance; (ii) the
Office National des Transports (ONATRA), operating ports as well as river
and rail transport; and (iii) the Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer
Zairois (SNCZ),  the national railway  company.   In addition,  five other
transport agencies  have  the following functions:    (i) Regie des Voies
Fluviales (RVF) charged with maintaining navigational channels and control-
ling services on navigable inland waterways except the Zaire estuary; (ii)
Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM), responsible for maintaining the Zaire
estuary navigational channels and providing pilot services between Matadi
and the sea; (iii) RDg;e des Voies Aeriennes which builds, maintains and
operates airports; (iv) Air Zaire, the state-owned airline with scheduled
domestic and international services; and (v) Compagnie Maritime Zairoise
(CMZ), the national shipping company.
1.07      OR is discussed in detail in Chapter II.
1.08         ONATRA,  an autonomous Government agency,  provides  transport
services on the Zaire river and its tributaries, railway services between
Matadi and Kinshasa and operates the ports in the Zaire River estuary and
most of the river ports in the interior.  It has a staff of about 19,000



3-
and has four operating divisions, Ports, Railways, River Transport and
Shipyards. ONATRA's performance has been adversely affected by the deteri-
oration of its facilities and declining transport demand. However, since
1977 its operations and finances have significantly improved. The decline
in overall traffic ceased in 1980 and ONATRA's financial situation has be-
come healthier.   IDA has contributed to these improvements by financing
technical assistance and consulting services to strengthen ONATRA's manage-
ment as well as high priority spare parts and equipment under Credit
571-ZR.   The on-going ONATRA Modernization and Ports Rehabilitation Pro-
jects (Credits 1180-ZR and 1335-ZR) are helping ONATRA to consolidate these
achievements and start rehabilitating its facilities and equipment.
1.09      SNCZ, an autonomous government agency, operates about 4,600 km of
rail line in three separate networks, several rail to river transshipment
ports and river transport on the Kivu and Tanganika lakes.  SNCZ's perfor-
mance has been unsatisfactory in recent years.  In general, it has not been
able  to meet  transport  demand  and has accumulated  financial  deficits.
Government has recently started to implement a reorganization of SNCZ's
management and taken valuable measures including tariff increases which
should considerably improve SNCZ's situation in coming years. The Second
Railway Project which IDA is financing through Credit 1475-ZR with other
donors has been designed to support SNCZ's recovery.
1.10      The three Regies have had difficulties in the past in fulfilling
their missions. RVF and RVM especially have had serious management diffi-
culties until recently.   With IDA's assistance, Government has started a
process of reorganization involving a change in top management and a tho-
rough review of operations and finances.   In general, the performance of
Air Zaire and CMZ has been poor.  Both have lost much ground to interna-
tional and local competition.
1.11      Except for OR, which is under the Ministry of Public Works (MPW),
all the above agencies are under the technical control of the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MTC); all are also under the financial con-
trol of the Ministry of Portfolio  (MPF).   In addition,  the Ministry of
Planning (MP) coordinates transport investments with the needs of other
sectors. In general, the transport parastatals enjoy a satisfactory degree
of autonomy.
1.12        In practice, there is very little regulation in the transport
sector.  As a consequence, the number of private operators is increasing.
Professional truckers, private river and air carriers, and large companies
transporting on their own account, have recently been competing actively
with the large public agencies for most traffic except minerals and con-
tainers.   Today, private companies handle all road transport, about two-
thirds of air transport, and one-third of river transport.
D. Sector Strategy, Planning, Needs and Main Issues
Sector Strategy and Planning
1.13      The Government's main objectives in the sector over the past few
years have been: (i) to focus the limited available resources on rehabili-



- 4 -
tation and maintenance of the existing network;  (ii) to improve opera-
tions through strengthening of mavagement and training; and (iii) to Im-
prove the capacity of major existiag internal transport routes.
1.14       This strategy is supported by the Bank Group and other major aid
agencies. As a consequence, the transport sector is one of the main reci-
pients of external funds in Zaire. Since 1975 the foreign costs of almost
all investments in roads, railways, ports and river transport have been
financed by donors as well as a large part of road maintenance operations.
This has necessitated extensive coordination. Bank-supported projects have
been key in this process by attracting large amounts of co-financing.
Transport was also discussed in June 1981 at a meeting of Zaire's Consulta-
tive Group and in June 1983 at a U.N.-sponsored roundtable in Kinshasa.
Within transport itself, the highway sub-sector has received the largest
share of external funds, about US$345 million equivalent in current terms
since 1971.
1.15      Planning and policy analysis in the sector is the responsibility
of GET, a study unit within MTC, and OR's planning cell. Both coordinate
their analyses with MP.  The latest version (1983-85) of Zaire's Public In-
vestment Program (PIP) allocates 42% of total investments to the transport
sector, making it the most important ahead of mining (22%) and energy and
water (18%). The share of transport is, however, overstated because all of
OR's operating costs, as well as its investments, have been included and
because the implementation schedule for transport projects is overly opti-
mistic.   Under more realistic assumptions,  the transport sector's share
would come down to about 25-30%, which still reflects the importance of the
sector for the country and also the large part of its activities under pub-
lic ownership.   Except for the above, the transport part of the PIP is
basically sound and correctly identifies medium- to long-term investment
priorities.   It includes, however, a few projects, the most important of
which are the electrification of the Matadi-Kinshasa Railway and some road
construction projects, which are premature.   The Ministry of Planning,
GET, and OR's planning cell have the capability to carry out a better
evaluation of transport sector priorities; this has already been done in
the short term concerning OR's 1986-88 comprehensive Highway Program (see
para. 2.42) and should be pursued during the preparation of the 1986-90
economic development plan for the transport sector as a whole.
Main Sector Needs and Issues and Government's Actions
1.16      Over the past few years, the major needs in the sector have been
(i) to improve the management and operational efficiency of the main trans-
port agencies; (ii) to provide them with sufficient financial resources in
foreign exchange as well as local currency; (iii) to establish clear and
well-founded investment priorities; and (iv) to improve the incentive
structure and encourage the development of the private sector. These needs
are well understood by the Government, which has taken significant steps
towards meeting them.
(i) Management and Operations
1.17         The management of the main transport agencies has generally
improved over the past years.   In both ONATRA and OR, for example,  the
organization has been streamlined and the management strengthened. Quite



-5-
comprehensive information systems and adequate internal control mechanisms
have also been developped in the context of past IDA projects. As a re-
sult, the productivity of ONATRA and OR has much improved.  However, much
remains to be done in all sector public agencies. Operations should be or-
ganized  more efficiently and internal controls reinforced.  At the same
time, a special effort should be made to train and motivate personnel.  A
major reform of SNCZ management is presently underway.  Studies have also
been recently completed under IDA financing to assist the new general mana-
gers of RVF and RVM improving the efficiency of their operations and reor-
ganizing their financial departments. Operations of RVA, Air ZaIre and CHZ
have not been reviewed by Bank staff in the past. Government has recently
taken measures in Air Zaire and CMZ to streamline management.
1.18      While technical assistance will continue to be needed in both
advisory and managerial positions, training should been given priority to
ensure eventual takeover by national staff.   To this end, large training
programs have been included in recent Bank Group-supported projects in the
sector and positive results are being registered at OR, ONATRA and SNCZ.
Recently, as many as 2,500 employees have been trained yearly in these in-
stitutions. The training of high level staff in Zaire and overseas has al-
so  been  considerably  developped.    Furthermore,  to  attract  and  retain
skilled Zairian staff, the above agencies have introduced measures going
beyond pure salary increases (such as food and housing allowances) as part
of their staff compensation.
(ii) Financial Resources
1.19       Over the past years, transport tariffs of ONATRA and SNCZ have
been generally increased to adequate levels, although delays have usually
been too long and have at times caused severe cash flow problems. As a re-
sult, both agencies have regularly had negative results. A major step was,
however, achieved in January 1984 when the main distortion in their tariff
structures (caused by the cross-subsidization of mineral transport) was
corrected.  Despite the fact that their assets are generally undervalued,
all other transport public agencies have generally had negative results
over the past years except RVM, whose tariffs are expressed in foreign ex-
change.   This situation will require  broad  reforms  that Government  is
beginning to implement. The financial situation of OR is described in more
detail in para. 2.27 to 2.29. In brief, OR, which is the only non-revenue
earning entity in the transport sector, has been underfunded in- the past.
The large increase in the proceeds of the road tax on gasoline and diesel
oil in 1983 was, however, a major improvement because it ensured the
regularity of OR's funding. In addition, the proceeds of the road tax were
increased 35% in real terms in 1984 and again 45% at the beginning of 1985;
this represents a major effort to provide sufficient resources for road
maintenance.   In general, since inflation remains high in Zaire,  it is
crucial that the tariffs of public agencies and the resources of OR be
adjusted in a timely and adequate fashion. More flexibility should also be
granted to public agencies in setting tariffs.
1.20       In the past, public transport agencies also suffered from severe
shortages of foreign exchange. The resulting lack of spare parts and sup-
plies has hampered operations. This has, however, been corrected with the
September 1983 monetary measures.   All parastatals,  as well as private
enterprises,  can now get foreign exchange freely from commercial banks,
which should have very positive consequences on the transport sector.



-6-
(iii) Investment Priorities
1.21       Given the scarcity of resources and the generally poor condition
of transport infrastructure and equipment, it is important that in-depth
technical and economic evaluation of all projects  be undertaken.   The
transport capacity of the different subsectors must also be coordinated so
that costly imbalances or bottlenecks do not occur.  Each public agency
should have the capability to analyze its investment needs in economic as
well as technical terms by strengthening or, if necessary, establishing
planning units. A constant review of priorities and monitoring of achieve-
ments is also required. Projects which do not have clear economic justifi-
cations, such as some road construction projects, the electrification of
the MatadiKinshasa railway line or the construction of a new deep seaport
at Banana, should be postponed. Under Credit 1335-ZR (Matadi-Kinshasa Port
Project), the Government has agreed to consult with the Association prior
to undertaking any project exceeding US$10 million equivalent in the port
and  railway  sectors.   At negotiations, Government has also  agreed  to
produce each year a rolling five-year comprehensive highway program based
on economic criteria satisfactory to the Association (see para. 2.42).
(iv) Development of the Private Sector/
Improvement of the Incentive Structure
1.22         The spontaneous and rapid development  of the private sector
should be encouraged. This includes defining a realistic long-term policy
framework, improving coordination with public agencies, developing adequate
support services and a simple information system on private sector activi-
ty. GET is presently undertaking under IDA financing a broad review of
private sector activities to provide a base for Government action.  This
review is expected to be completed by mid-1985.
1.23       In addition, it is important that a system of incentives permit
an efficient allocation of resources.  Government's fuel pricing policies
and their impact on the transport sector were the subject of a study
financed by IDA and completed in March 1984. The study showed in particu-
lar that (i) the price of diesel oil was below economic costs, (ii) there
was no good rationale for the cross-subsidy and consequently the very large
discrepancy between the price of gasoline and diesel oil and (iii) the uni-
form price system over the entire country led to shortages and misalloca-
tion of resources. Since then, fuel pricing and more generally energy re-
lated policies have been the subject of much exchange between the Govern-
ment and IDA. The price of diesel oil was increased and the ratio between
gasoline and diesel oil prices fell from 3.5 to 1.6 in January 19851/.
On April 22, 1985, Government eliminated the cross-subsidy mechanism and
introduced  a  pricing  system  that  takes  account  of  location.    At
negotiations, Government agreed to maintain at all times the price of
gasoline and diesel oil above their respective economic costs including the
full transport and distribution costs. A study was also recently completed
under IDA financing on road user charges. It shows that road transporters
do not pay for the real cost of road use, a situation which will require
Government action in the coming years (see paras. 2.09 and 2.10).
1/ The January 1985 structure of fuel prices is in Annex 1.1



- 7 -
E. Bank Experience in the Transport Sector
1.24        The Bank Group agrees with the Government's strategy in the
transport sector and has designed its assistance to support it.  Since
Zaire's independence in 1960, the Bank has helped finance five highway pro-
jects (Credits 152-CK, USS6 million, 1969; Credit 292-CK, US$19 million,
1972; Credit 536-ZR, US$26 million, 1975; Credit 916-ZR, US$26 million,
1979; Credit 1290-ZR, US$43.5 million 1982), one river transport project
(Credit 255-ZR, US$7 million, 1971), two railway projects (Credit 902-ZR,
US$20 million, 1979; Credit 1475-ZR, US$26 million, 1984), two rail/river
projects (Credits 571-ZR, US$26 million, 1975 and 1180-ZR, US$26 million,
1982) and one port project (Credit 1335-ZR, US$25 million, 1983).
1.25      Dialogue with the Government on the major issues in the transport
sector has intensified during the last few years and is being pursued
through different channels: (i) Zaire's sector strategy was the object of a
special presentation during the last Country Implementation Review in Kin-
shasa (Hay 1983); (ii) a transport sector report is being prepared for dis-
cussion with Government by late 1985; and (iii) specific issues are being
addressed within the context of individual projects.
1.26       Two Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued, one for
the First Highway Project (1978), and the second jointly for the Second and
Third Highway Projects and for the River Transport and First Rail/River
Projects (October 7, 1983).  The main conclusions of the latter report,
which are generally confirmed by the experience under vore recent projects
(especially the Fourth Highway Project for which a PCR was issued on
January 31, 1985) are the following:
(i)  The projects under review were probably too ambitious.  Because
of the difficult environment in which they were implemented and
some deficiencies in project design and supervision, only part of
the projects' objectives were met;
(ii)  The projects aided in bringing about major institutional develop-
ment. New agencies were launched (OR, RVF and RVM) and an exist-
ing one, ONATRA, was substantially reorganized. Large numbers of
Zairian employees were trained. There remained, however, in the
audit's opinion, serious problems concerning the size, responsi-
bilities and strategies of ONATRA and OR;
(iii) Technical assistance still plays an important role in the manage-
ment of ONATRA and OR.   The process of replacement by Zairian
staff must be pursued while ensuring the availability of adequate
technical resources for management;
(iv)  The institutions responsible for policy making and control should
be strengthened in parallel with the main transport agencies;
(v) Investment priorities should be analyzed within the context of
the entire transport system, rather than in relation to one major
transport corridor such as the Voie Nationale, the main internal
route for mineral export.



-8-
1.27       All these questions are being addressed through sector dialogue
(para. 1.25) and ongoing projects, for example, by continuation of large
training programs and institutional development efforts in ONATRA, OR and
SNCZ, a broad review of the organization of the road sector (Fifth Highway
Project), analysis of RVF and RVM operations ana financial management (Port
Project), and studies designed to help Government address key policy issues
such as the adequacy of road user charges and the price of petroleum pro-
ducts (Fifth Highway Project). Recent projects (ONATRA Modernization, Port
and Second Railway Projects) have also focused on key priorities of the
sector as a whole and have not been limited to the Voie Nationale's re-
quirements.
F. Rationale for the Bank Group's Involvement in the Proposed Project
1.28      Although the proposed project's main components achieve very high
economic rates of return, the Bank's involvement is mainly justified by
sector-related reasons.  As explained briefly in para. 4.01, the highway
sub-sector is important to the development of agriculture and integration
of markets and can therefore be expected to contribute greatly to the eco-
nomic recovery of Zaire. It also has a di.ect impact on rural areas where
two-thirds of Zaire's population lives. OR, whose operations and develop-
ment have been assisted by five previous IDA credits, cas become the key
institution in highway maintenance and construction. It still needs to be
supported to pursue its objectives with financing from Government and ex-
ternal donors. Since OR is a major consumer of public funds, better analy-
sis and planning of its activities and investments, which IDA fosters, con-
tributes to a more efficient allocation of resources, one of IDA's main ob-
jectives in assisting Zaire.  The transport sector itself is a major consu-
mer of national resources and of foreign exchange in particular, and IDA
plays an important role in helping Government take appropriate measures to
improve the sector's performance and assemble the external assistance that
the sector requires.



II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Road Network
2.01      Zaire's road network comprises about 145,000 km of roads classi-
fied as national roads (20,700 km), main regional roads (20,200 km), secon-
dary regional roads (17,100 km) and local roads (87,000 km).  Only about
2,400 km are paved.  Annex 2.1 shows the length of the national and main
regional roads networks and their distribution in each of Zaire's eight re-
gions and the district of Kinsnasa. On the whole, Zaire's road network is
adequate in length for current needs but is in unsatisfactory condition as
evidenced in Annex 2.2 which shows that in several regions less than 60% of
the national and main regional roads are in -good condition.
2.02       Owing to the large number of rivers, there are numerous bridges
and 228 ferries. Since 1980, OR has carried out a ten-year renewal program
for bridges and ferries that bas produced positive results and needs to be
pursued.
B. Road Use
Vehicle Fleet
2.03      Statistics on the vehicle fleet are old and unreliable.  The most
recent estimates (end 1983) put the size of the fleet at 110,000 vehicles
of which about 55 percent are private cars; 20 percent Jeeps, vans and
pick-ups; 15 percent trucks; and 10 percent buses, trailers and other. The
fleet has not grown since 1978. As explained earlier (para. 1.05), it is
also in poor condition. Registration is concentrated in the important cen-
ters of activity; the Kinshasa and Shaba regions account for about 81% and
7% of the total, respectively.
Traffic
2.04         Statistics on traffic volumes and growth are scanty mainly
because there is no nation-wide system for making traffic counts. In 1983,
OR started to implement a program of traffic counts that had been approved
by the Association on twelve of the country's most important road sec-
tions. At negotiations, Government agreed to continue monitoring traffic
yearly on these sections.
2.05      The few traffic counts that have been carried out in the recent
past show that traffic volumes range up to 1,000 vehicles per day (vpd) on
the most heavily used sections of the network, e.g. the Kinshasa-Matadi
road, but most of the network carries fewer than 50 vpd. Truck traffic
predominates with between 60 and 90 percent of total traffic. Annex 2.3
provides traffic estimates. The cumulative figures show that the national
and main regional roads carry about 97Z of the country's traffic.   The
greatest impact of OR's limited resources can therefore be obtained by de-
ploying them on these roa's.



- 10 -
Road Transport Industry
2.06       The road transport industry is mainly composed of small traders/
truckers with very little equipment and operating mostly in the informal
sector. There are only three large transport companies with mDre than 50
trucks. Transport for one's own account is also widely used, especially by
agro-industries and commercial companies.  Since there are almost no re-
strictive regulations, the degree of competition in the road transport in-
dustry is very high. Major problems are the poor condition of the truck
fleet, the shortages of spare parts and fuel particularly in the interior,
and the lack of ancillary services which forces truckers to be highly self-
sufficient in mechanical back-up and parts supplies. For these reasons and
because of road conditions, road transport costs are high.
Fuel Consumption
2.07       The volume of gasoline and diesel oil consumed in Zaire in the
recent past has fluctuated around 500,000 m3 of which 25 to 30% is gasoline
and the rest diesel oil (see yearly consumption in Annex 2.4). In general,
demand has not been satisfied as too little foreign exchange has been allo-
cated by Government to imports of petroleum products. At times shortages
have been very serious especially outside the main transport routes. Con-
sumption is concentrated in the Bas-Zaire/Kinshasa and Shaba regions (about
46% and 22% of the total respectively). Road transport accounts for only
about 55% of total consumption. The remaining is mainly consumed by the
mining sector, agriculture and manufacturing, the public utilities and rail
and river transport.
Control of Axle Load
2.08        There is currently no control of axle load in Zaire.  A study
that was carried out in 1981 at OR's initiative made useful proposals con-
cerning the legislation and the enforcement of axle load limits, but it was
not followed up by any action. Government has recently expressed the in-
tention to update the current regulation (especially raise the axle load
lImit from 8 to lOT for a single four-wheel axle) and institute import con-
trols which would be more manageable than routine field controls.   The
design standard for new paved roads would, however, remain 13T per axle
which  provides  a  reasonable  margin  of  security.    At  negotiations,
Government agreed to submit by December 31, 1985, for comments by the
Association a program of action for regulating and enforcing axle loads,
including the passage of necessary legislation and the adoption of
enforcement measures, and would, promptly thereafter, implement the
program, taking into account the Association's views.
Road User Revenues
2.09       A study of road user charges was completed in January 1985 by a
consultant under the Fifth Highway Project. It showed that on the whole,
road users paid only about 50% of the total cost of road use (defined as
the total local and foreign-cost of routine and periodic maintenance of the
entire road network necessary to prevent its deterioration). In addition.
it appeared that there were important cross-subsidies between urban and
inter-urban users and between light vehicles and trucks and buses. These
figures should, however, be taken with some caution as the study, in IDA's
opinion, probably overestimated the cost of road use.



- II -
2.10      Government recently informed IDA that it intends to increase road
user charges to cover the cost of road use through the following measures:
(i) an increase in the axle load tax on trucks and buses; (ii) a better re-
covery of import duties on all vehicles, (iii) an increase in the taxation
of gasoline and diesel oil.   Government will shortly create a technical
committee which will include all ministries involved to analyze the imple-
mentation of the above measures and proposed recommendations by within
seven months.  At negotiations, Government agreed to furnish to IDA its
recommandations for road user charges by December 31, 1985, exchange views
on those and thereafter maintain such charges at levels sufficient to cover
the cost of road use as defined above. With the latest increase in the
prices of petroleum products road user charges have already been
substantially increased.
C. Orpgnization of the Highway Sub-Sector
2.11      At present, responsibilities for administration of the road net-
work are allocated to (i) OR for national and regional roads, (ii) MPW's
Directorate of Urban Roads for all roads in urban areas and (iii) the Mini-
stry of Agriculture for local roads. At times in the past, OR was given
the responsibility of some urban and local roads.  However, since 1981,
Government has correctly decided to concentrate OR's capabilities on the
main inter-urban road network.
2.12      The organization and operations of OR are described later in this
chapter. Urban and local roads have in general received little attention
in the past years and much effort would be needed, especially concerning
the institutional and financial aspects, to improve their condition. Spe-
cific arrangements have recently been set up for local roads. A priority
agricultural network of 20,000 km was established in 1981 and an annual
budget has since been allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture for their
maintenance. These funds have been used by regional Governors, sometimes
with the assistance of OR, with mixed results. Rehabilitation and mainte-
nance of some local agricultural roads have also been included in agricul-
tural projects supported by various donors: for example, the IDA First and
Second Cotton Rehabilitation Projects, the IDA Smallholder Maize and Lulua
Agricultural Development Projects in Kasai-Oriental and USAID projects in
Bandundu and North-Shaba. In these cases OR's role has been restricted to
providing qualified Zairian staff to implementation agencies for the execu-
tion of projects' road components. A study of highway sub-sector organiza-
tion has recently been completed (January 1985) by consultants under IDA
financing. Besides making a large number of practical proposals concerning
OR itself, the consultants recommended (i) to create an independent agency
on OR's model to take charge of urban roads; (ii) to extend OR's activities
to 58,000 km (including secondary regional roads) and for the time being
keep present arrangements for local roads; and (iii) to progressively ex-
tend OR's responsibilities in local roads as more funds become available.
These recommendations will be discussed with Government including the Mini-
stry of agriculture during the preparation of an IDA assisted feeder road
project. As long as OR's resources remain limited, however, its area of
responsibility should not be extended.



- 12 -
D.   Office des Routes:   Organization, Personnel, Equipment, Operations,
Accounting and Financing
Organization
2.13       OR is an operationally and financially autonomous agency under
MPW responsible for administration, planning, construction and maintenance
of national and regional roads including bridges and ferries. Although OR
was established in 1971 as an entirely new institution and in the mid
1970's went through a period of uncertainty concerning its responsibilities
and strategies as well as its adaptation to a deteriorating economic envi-
ronment, it has developped and now become well organized and managed with
adequate internal controls and a motivated personnel. This is a rather im-
pressive achievement especially given such constraints as Zaire's size and
poor inter-regional communications.   OR's present organization takes into
account Government's policy of decentralization and is adequate for imple-
menting current road policies.
2.14       The Board of OR consists of 7 members:  the General Manager, the
Administrative and the Technical Directors of OR and delegates of the Mini-
stries of Finance, Public Works and Agriculture and the Directorate of
Urban Roads. Daily management is being handled by a Steering Committee
which is assisted by the corps of General Inspectors, the regulations com-
mittee, the procurement committee and several central units responsible for
management control, planning, organisation, and public relations. OR has
i) administrative duties performed by the Kinshasa departments and the re-
gional offices; (ii) operational functions performed by production units
(UP), the equipment management department (SGMTP) (para. 2.21), the nation-
al public works laboratory (1,4TP) and training centers (CF).  OR's organi-
zational chart is in Chart 1.
Personnel, Technical Assistance and Training
2.15      OR has about 7,600 employees, including some 300 engineers and 50
high level technicians. OR, faced with the problem of attracting and re-
taining good local staff because of low salaries, has instituted a compre-
hensive compensation package with such fringe benefits as transportation,
medical and dental assistance, a commissary and schooling for dependents.
2.16       The quality and performance of OR's personnel has greatly im-
proved in the past years, to a large extent because adequate incentive
schemes have been developped and extensive training programs have been
established and sucessfully implemented.        Between 1981 and 1983 about
2,110 staff participated in training sessions that lasted from one week to
three months; among these, about 1,300 received basic training in civil
works and mechanical maintenance, 340 were trained to use and maintain new
equipment and 470 took seminars in such subjects as management, accounting
and finance and pedagogy (see Annex 2.5). The organization of the sessions
and quality and relevance of the programs have in general been high. These
efforts must be pursued. OR is taking steps to strengthen its staff plan-
ning capabilities, involve more systematically technical departments in the
drafting of training programs, and better follow up on the performance of
trainees.



- 13 -
2.17       Training is presently carried out in six regional centers.  Only
two are now adequate.   The facilities and equipment of the others still
need to be improved. OR is receiving substantial assistance from various
donors, including IDA, for this purpose. A training program has also re-
cently been elaborated that covers the period 1985 to 1988. This program,
which involves about 2,270 employees and 6,000 man-monLns of training, was
reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory. Major features are that: (i) em-
phasis would be put on improving the quality of trainers; (ii) about 95
high-level staff would be sent abroad for periods of about five months to
acquire expertise in areas for which training is not available in Zaire;
and (iii) a precise evaluation of each staff would be carried out in order
to better assess the numbers to be trained and develop programs in sub-spe-
cialties that had not been tackled so far. The proposed project would help
strengthen OR's training capabilities and support implementation of its
training program.
2.18       OR uses about 60 technical assistants under very diverse bilate-
ral and multilateral financing, mainly in higher advisory positions and in
the technical and mechanical fields. This is a decline from about 100 ex-
patriates in 1974 as qualified and experienced Zairian engineers and mana-
gers have taken over more higher level positions during a time when OR's
responsibilities have greatly increased. OR plans to further decrease the
number of expatriate staff to (i) 50 by the end of 1985 -  a list  of
these, including their positions in OR's organizational structure, is in
Annex 2.6; and (ii) about 30 by the end of 1988, mostly positions requiring
key technical and mechanical expertise. Given past progress in recruiting
and training professional staff, OR's plans in this area should be
achieved.
Equipment - Facilities
2.19       OR's equipment fleet is large.  It consists mainly o' 545 heavy
civil works units, 793 trucks and a number of buses, small vehicles and
miscellaneous equipment. The renewal value of this fleet is about US$100.0
mi-lion as detailed in Annex 2.7. One of OR's major problems is the old
age of its equipment (also see Annex 2.7). Many items are in poor condi-
tion with low reliability and high spare parts consumption; and must be re-
placed soon if OR's productivity is to be maintained.
2.20       OR also manages a fleet of 228 ferries with a renewal value of
about US$60.0 million.   A summary description of this fleet is in Annex
2.8. Since 1980, OR has implemented a ten-year plan to replace 121 fer-
ries that were more than 20 years old. This program has been very success-
ful. At the end of 1985, 63 ferries will have been replaced.
2.21        Equipment management is the responsibility of the Service de
Gestion du Material des Travaux Publics (SGMTP), a functionally and finan-
cially independent department within OR. SGMTP operates ten workshops for
road maintenance equipment, and three shipyards for ferries.  SGMTP buys,
maintains and replaces equipment, and keeps records and accounts. Equip-
ment is leased to OR's other departments for carrying out their works and
achieving their objectives. SGMTP's own efficiency is judged by the avail-
ability of equipment which has increased from 50% on average in 1980 to 65%
in 1984, a good indication of SGMPT's  satisfactory management.   Ferry
availability has also been high (88% on national roads and 78% on priority
regional roads).



- 14 -
Operations
2.22        OR is now well established as a road administration and as a
government owned contractor in all regions. Basically, OR carries out its
responsibilities as follows: (i)  road repaving amd construction programs
are carried out by contract work, the design and supervision being done by
consultants; (ii) paved road routine maintenance is done by force account;
(iii)   mechanical gravel/earth road maintenance is done mostly by force
account and occasionally by contractors; (iv) manual routine gravel/earth
road maintenance is mainly done by contract; and (v) bridge and ferry
construction and maintenance is done by force account for small scale
works, otherwise by contract.
2.23      OR's work programming process is satisfactory.  The Road Depart-
ment programs and supervises works carried out by contractors and by OR's
production units. Yearly objectives, programs and outputs are prepared by
OR's regional offices in collaboration with the regional authorities and
approved by headquarters.   Implementation of these programs  is closely
monitored.   Quarterly reports compare objectives and actual results, and
about 20% of employees' salaries are based on their unit's output.   The
whole process is also supervised by the General Inspectors.
2.24       Since OR's creation, its strategies and work methods have consi-
derably evolved and have become better adapted to Zaire's specific condi-
tions. Much experience has been gained by trying very diverse solutions in
the past twelve years. Rehabilitation and periodic maintenance activities
on the national and main regional gravel/earth roads are carried out mainly
by mechanical means.  In view of the low population density in most of
Zaire and the expected productivities of alternative solutions, this is
justifiable. However, whenever possible, OR contracts out the labor-inten-
sive manual routine maintenance under unit price contracts to companies or
local authorities who in turn hire contract labor for execution of the
work.   Their work is monitored by the brigades responsible for the areas
where the roads are located. Most mechanical work is also carried out by
force account mainly because contract work has usually turned out to be
very expensive. Contractors must increase prices substantially to compen-
sate for Government's late payments and shortages of fuel, spare parts and
materials. Because of the size of the country and the limited number of
qualified contractors,  competition is also very limited.   IDA's ongoing
sector work includes a review of Zaire's construction industry with the
objective of identifying  the key constraints to its development.   This
would be   broadened by further consulting assistance under the proposed
project.   If found feasible, OR should undertake a pilot project in the
coming years to provide experience on the consultants' recommendations.
2.25        Only with the Fourth Highway Project (1980-82) has OR become
firmly established nationwide.   Its output has been very satisfactory in
zome regions (Bas-Zaire and Shaba, for example) and disappointing in
others, although the trend has been positive with good results on average
in 1983 and 1984. In the past, OR has suffered from shortages of fuel, in-
sufficient funds available for spare parts and shortages of specific key



- 15 -
equipment items (loaders and graders especially), sometimes because of
changing foreign assistance programs which hampered the productivity of the
entire fleet.  IDA's Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects have helped to im-
prove this situation, an objective which OR's 1986-88 highway program would
pursue.
Accounting
2.26       A modern and satisfactory accounting system has been in place at
OR only since the beginning of 1984 and consulting work is still required
to complete the training of accountants and the system for computer pro-
cessing of financial statements and calculation of precise unit costs.
Each of OR's main production units is financially autonomous. Accounts are
consolidated monthly across regions and types of activities and controlled
by internal audit units in the central departments in Kinshasa.   Since
1980, OR's accounts have been audited by independant external auditors.
Their reports have noted the continuous improvements in OR's accounting
procedures although some recommendations aimed at further improvements of
the system must still be implemented.
Financing
2.27       OR receives financing from three main sources: (i) the proceeds
of a road tax on gasoline and diesel oil are automatically credited to OR
to cover mainly current expenditures in local currency2/; (ii) the
country's investment budget includes local currency funds for road and
bridge construction; (iii) external assistance provides foreign exchange
for OR's current expenditures (mainly spare parts, materials and supplies,
part of its fuel, and technical assistance) and for equipment and
investments.
2.28       Annex 2.9 gives the amounts that have been provided to OR since
1977 by Zaire's recurrent budget (including the road tax on fuels) and
investment budget. These figures show that the funds from the first source
have remained fairly constant in real terms until 1984, when they increased
about 35%. Funds from the investment budget, on the contrary, have changed
drastically from year to   year.   In addition to these funds in local
currency, OR has also received from its creation in 1971 until 1984 a total
of about US$344 million equivalent in foreign exchange (in current prices)
from very diverse  sources  of external assistance.   About $157 million
financed construction of roads, bridges and ferries while the remaining
$187 million supported maintenance and rehabilitation activities. The main
contributors have been:  the European Development Fund (EDF - about US$115
million equivalent) which focused its assistance on road construction; IDA
(about US$97 million equivalent) which emphasized road maintenance and
rehabilitation; and the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW - about US$36
million equivalent); who mainly financed ferries and road rehabilitation.
2/   Until the end of 1982, the proceeds of the road tax on fuels were
limited and OR relied on Zaire's recurrent budget for the financing of
its current expenditures in local currency.



- 16 -
Substantial contributions have also come from the US Agency for
International Development (USAID about US$19 million equivalent); the
African Development Bank (AfDB - about US$16 million equivalent); the
European Community (about US$15 million equivalent); the Saudi Fund (about
US$15 million equivalent disbursed); and the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA - about US$8 million equivalent).
2.29        Although there has been a marked improvement recently in the
total amounts provided to OR as well as in the regularity of payments (see
para. 1.19), OR maintenance and rehabilitation activities have on the whole
been under-funded. The total funds received from Government in 1984 repre-
sent less than 0.5% of Zaire's GNP. As a result, OR's equipment fleet is
old and the lack of fuel and spare parts has regularly hampered productivi-
ty.   Paved roads have not been resurfaced on time.   With the latest
increases in the road tax on fuels (in 1985), OR's resources have reached
an adequate level, a situation that Government, with the assistance of
external aid, has agreed to maintain in the coming years (see para. 2.43).
2.30        As evidenced in Annex 2.9, OR's local financing is critically
dependent on the road tax on fuels. Technical discussions concerning the
prices of petroleum products, and therefore the level of the road tax, have
usually taken place between commercial companies, the Ministry of Energy
and the Ministry of Economy and OR has not been able to make its needs
fully known and taken into account in a timely fashion. As a condition of
Credit effectiveness, Government would establish an interministerial
technical committee which includes OR to regularly review the adequacy of
road tax level and to propose necessary adjustments to Government.
2.31       A recent problem is that OR owes about 150.0 million Zaires in
local currency3/ to contractors but does not have the resources to pay
this debt in the short-term unless it curtails its operations. This debt
should be paid off rapidly, especially since a substantial part of OR's
1986-88 comprehensive program is to be implemented by contractors and high
bids can be expected if there is general doubt as to OR's ability to honor
its commitments.   At negotiations,  Government agreed that OR would be
provided the resources to: (i) repay with one year from March 1, 1985, all
its local currency debt overdue by more than 90 days as of such date; and
(ii) pay its contractors promptly in accordance with the contracts signed
with them.
E. OR's 1986-88 Comprehensive Highway Program
OR's Planning Unit
2.32        The programming/planning of OR's activities is carried out by
OR's planning unit which is directly responsible to the general manager.
This unit has performed well in the past, especially ensuring that strate-
gies/main actions are decided upon with reference to economic priorities.
3/   In addition to an estimated US$5.9 million debt in foreign exchange.



- 17 -
It has mostly worked, however, on an ad-hoc basis and has not been able to
achieve much coordination with MP and GET.  In the future OR's planning
cell should, therefore, be strengthened to improve its data base for deci-
sion making and set up and follow systematic planning and monitoring proce-
dures.  At negotiations the Government and OR agreed (i) to revise the
terms of reference of OR's planning unit in accordance with the above and
staff it adequately by December 31, 1985; and (ii) produce by March 1st
each year beginning in 1986 a five-year rolling program of all of ORs
activities and investments, starting with the current year, as well as a
review of implementation of the previous year's program.
1986-88 Comprehensive Highway Program
2.33        Following a highway subsector donor meeting held on March 4,
1985, OR has produced a revised comprehensive program of its activities for
1986-88. This program covers the following: (i) routine maintenance of the
entire road network for which OR is responsible and periodic maintenance of
gravel/earth roads, including all OR's operating expenditures; (ii)
repaving of deteriorated paved roads; (iii) a bridge program; (iv) a ferry
program; (v) paved road construction; (vi) technical assistance, studies
and office equipment; and (vii) training. As presented in Table 2.1 and
with more details in Annex 2.10, the program's total estimated cost is
US$374.8 million (about US$190.5 million of which would be paid in foreign
exchange).
Table 2.1 - Cost Estimates of OR's 1986-88 Comprehensive Highway Program
Activities                         Local    Foreign a/   Total
US$ million D-b
i) Routine and Periodic Maintenance           102.9        60.1      163.0
Cii) Repaving                                    14.7       34.3       49.0
(iii) Bridge Program                              3.0         5.0        8.0
(iv) Ferry Program                                3.3        3.7        7.0
(v) New road construction                      25.0        50.0       75.0
(vi) Technical Assistance/Studies/
Office Equipment                            3.6         7.5       11.1
(vii) Training                                    7.5         6.0       13.5
Base Cost                              160.0       166.6      326.6
Contingencies c/
Physical on (ii) to (iv) (1OZ)         2.1         4.3        6.4
Price                                 22.2       19.6        41.8
184.3      190.5      374.8
a/  In Table 2.1 -foreign costs" as estimated by OR represent in fact the
snare of total costs to be paid by foreign assistance.   In IDA's
opinion, a better estimate of the real total foreign cost is US$245.0
million.
b/ In mid-1984 terms.
c/ Since the amounts committed for new road construction are fixed, no
contingencies are included for (v).



- 18 -
2.34        The program's technical and economic justification has been the
subject of intensive discussions between Zairian authorities and IDA during
project appraisal. The program's scope has been reduced several times to
limit it to well-justified components and to fit available financing. Al-
though there remain some uncertainties, especially concerning some cost es-
timates, the program as outlined above is now well-balanced and satisfacto-
ry.  Below is a brief analysis of the program's main components.  A more
thorough review is provided in Annex 2.10.
(i) Routine and Periodic Maintenance
2.35       OR's proposals are sound.  As explained in Annex 2.10, section
(I), OR's estimates for equipment replacement, spare parts, and fuel which,
besides personnel, are the main expenditures in this component, are based
on a realistic evaluation of required volumes of work to maintain the main
road network and of the productivities that can be achieved. The high re-
quirements for equipment replacement are due to the old age of OR's equip-
ment fleet (see para. 2.19). A share of the maintenance work is also allo-
cated to manual labor techniques. The economic analysis in paras. 4.04 to
4.08 shows that the proposed maintenance activities achieve high economic
returns. This component has in fact been somewhat reduced to fit available
external financing; it would be well justified to expand it slightly if ad-
ditional funds became available.
(ii)  Repaving
2.36      As explained in Annex 2.10, section (II), there is a good techni-
cal justification under OR's proposal to strengthen 448 km of currently
paved roads. If such work is not perrormed, the condition of these roads
is going to deteriorate very rapidly. The economic analysis (paras. 4.09
to 4.11) also shows that there is ample justification for these works.
Cost estimates are still tentative, however, and may have to be adjusted
once additional engineering work is carried out.
(iii) Bridge Program
2.37      OR's objective is to start a systematic program of inspection and
periodic maintenance of existing bridges and to replace five ferries on
national roads with new bridges. Annex 2.10, section (III),describes the
works to be performed and points out some uncertainties on costs esti-
mates. The program of periodic maintenance of existing bridges is essen-
tial to safeguard existing infrastructure and is well justified. The con-
struction of five new bridges is economically justified but with a lower
level of priority.
(iv) Ferry Program
2.38       OR's 1986-88 comprehensive program includes continuation of its
ten-year ferry plan. Construction of 24 ferries and 10 access ramps is en-
visaged. As explained in Annex 2.10, section (IV), OR has demonstrated its
ability to manage Zaire's very extensive ferry fleet by achieving impres-
sing results in the past 5 years in terms of availability rates and fleet
rehabilitation. The economic analysis also shows a global rate of return



- 19 -
of 42% for the ferry program. This component is therefore justified. It
could also be expanded if additional funds became available.
(v) Paved Road Construction
2.39      OR intends to pursue three projects that have already started and
for which external financing has beeLl secured in some cases for several
years: (a) construction of. the 195 km Lubutu-Walikale section of the
Kisangani-Bukavu road, (b) construction of the most difficult 15 km of the
Akula-Gemena road, and (c) construction of the 88 km Kikwit-Batshamba
road. Therefore, there would not be any new road construction project nor
any financing required in addition to what is already committed.
2.40        Zaire's decision not to undertake any new construction project
until 1988 is sound since in general road construction projects currently
do not have good economic justification in Zaire. The local funds still to
be disbursed on the Akula-Gemena and Kikwit-Batshamba projects will be paid
by the EDF and will not be a weight on Zaire's budget. US$25.0 million in
local currency has, however, been committed by Zaire for the local cost of
pursuing construction of the Kisangani-Bukavu road. This is in line with
one of the country's major goals for which there are good long-term
socio-economic reasons. It is nevertheless important that this not be done
at the expense of periodic and routine maintenance activities and that if
local funds become scarse, construction works be spread over a longer
period or limited in scope with local funding being taken over by the ex-
ternal agencies involved in the project.
(vi) Technical Assistance/Studies/Office Equipment - Training
2.41       OR's proposals are detailed in Annex 2.10.  These are based on
plans which are presented in para. 2.17 and 2.18 and are on the whole
satisfactory. The major ongoing effort for training would be pursued and
the total amount of technical assistance would gradually decrease.
2.42            The  process  of  realistically  programming  future  highway
activities on the basis of economic priorities and available local and
external funds and with coordination of donors should also be pursued.  At
negotiations,  Government  agreed  that  the  content  and  implementation
schedule of OR's five-year rolling highway program (para. 2.32) would be
based or. a reasonable forecast of available local and external funds, and
according to economic criteria acceptable to IDA (a list of such criteria
is in Annex 2.11).  In addition, for any new investment or subprogram in
excess of US$5.0 million equivalent, Governmer-t would furnish to IDA a
study, whose methodology is acceptable to IDA, establishing the technical,
economic and financial viability of the new proposal prior to its inclusion
in the five-year rolling program. The highway program would be reviewed
each year beginning in 1986 by IDA and to the extent possible, this review
would be carried out jointly with all other donors involved in the highway
subsector.
2.43         OR's 1986-88 highway program would be financed by Government
(US$184.3 million) and by external aid agencies (US$190.5 million) as de-
tailed in Table 8.1, Annex 2.10. The contribution of external aid agencies
is based on ongoing aid program (about 31% of the total contribution), com-
mitments that were announced or confirmed at the March 4, 1985 donors meet-
ing (52%) and on reasonable assumptions made from their past participation



- 20 -
in OR's programs and from ongoing discussions with Zaire's Government
(17%).   This financing plan can be considered as realistic.   Other aid
agencies that did not participate in the donors' meeting but have shown
interest in OR's 1986-88 program can be expected to ''ll the financing gap
if ever some of the expected funds did Liot materialize.   Government's
contribution, which was confirmed at the donors' meeting, would be provided
by the road tax on fuels and by the investment budget. US$162.1 million in
constant terns is required over the 1986-88 period, or about zaire 2.4
billion annually, which is about 15% above the 1985 budgeted amount. As a
result, an increasing share of routine and periodic maintenance costs would
be paid from locally generated funds (especially all fuel and lubricant
costs and some of the spare parts costs, which is a main change compared to
OR's previous three-year programs). As explained earlier, if there was a
shortfall in local funds, the ongoing road construction projects should be
spread over a longer period or currently committed external funds used for
local cost financing.  At negotiations Government agreed to take all the
necessary steps (including adjustments in the road tax on fuels to: (i)
provide OR each year with the funds necessary to finance, at least, the
road maintenance, repaving, bridge and ferry works, technical assistance
and training included in OR's five-year rolling highway program; (ii)
ensure that the needed funds are provided, besides foreign contributions,
by the road tax; (iii) ensure that yearly road tax proceeds are never
inferior to US$50.0 million equivalent (in mid-1986 terms); and (iv)
continue to transfer road tax proceeds directly to OR.



- 21 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The proposed project supports the Government's objectives of pro-
viding more efficient and teliable communications between the country's
principal centers of economic activity and stimulating development of the
agricultural sector by facilitating transport and marketing of agricultural
products. More specifically, the project, in line with the five previous
IDA-financed highway projects, aims to Ci) continue and consolidate the
country-wide bridge, road and ferry rehabilitation and maintenance programs
begun under these projects; and (ii) strengthen OR's administration and
training capabilities. To this end the project would address key aspects
and components of OR's 1986-88 comprehensive highway program with the a-.nk
financing selected parts of these components in coordination with other
donors' assistance.
B. Project Description
3.02      The proposed project consists of the following elements:
Ci)  support to the routine and perodic maintenance of OR's road net-
work by force account (including the operation of ferries)
through the provision of equipment, spare parts, materials and
supplies;
(ii)   bridge repair and maintenance;
(iii)   construction of access ramps for ferries;
(iv)   strengthening OR's management through technical assistance, con-
sulting services and office equipment;
(v)   training.
(i)  Road Maintenance
3.03       The project would provide about 30% of the equipment that needs
to he replaced, 50% of the spare parts for sR's equipment and ferries over
the 1986-88 period and materials, mainly bituminous binders for paved road
maintenance and steel and galvanized steel for culverts. This would ensure
that all routine maintenance activities take place as well as the most ur-
gent periodic maintenance of gravel/earth roads and ferry ope-ations.



- 22 -
3.04        The objectives of OR's three-year road maintenance program by
force account are described in Annexes 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3.   The following
seven components are included:   paved road routine maintenance, grading,
manual maintenance of gravel/earth roads, culvert maintenance, bridge main-
tenance, regravelling and rehabilitation. On the national roads routine
and periodic maintenance would be provided systematically. On the main re-
gional roads, however, only routine maintenance would be provided systema-
tically and pe-iodic maiatenance on a case by case basis.   In addition,
ferries would be maintaiDed and operated. At negotiations OR agreed that,
starting on November 1D, 1985, it would submit its annual work programs to
the Association for review and approval at least one month before the start
oL- each year and would not modify work programs already agreed upon without
the  Association's  approval.    In  the  event  of  significant  delays  in
equipment renewal or shortfalls in allocations of funds to OR, the
Association and OR would also exchange views on any modifications to be
made to the current work program.
(ii)   Bridge Repair and Maintenance
3.05        The project would include OR's bridge repair and maintenance
program as detailed in Annex 2.10, Section (III). Basically, this program
consists of a survey of the infrastructures of about 50 bridges and the re-
pair of piles and abutments of 15 bridges, and the maintenance, repair and
replacement of steel superstructures nationwide.
(iii)   Construction of Access Ramps for Ferries
3.06        Ten access ramps would be constructed for the existing 35 T
ferries in order to facilitate ferry exploitation and prevent damage to
vehicles. The sites of the access ramps have been agreed (see Annex 2.10,
S'.±ction (IV)).
(iv)   Technical Assistance, Consulting Services and Office Equipment
3.07         Although OR intends to substantially decrease its number of
technical assistants, (see para. 2.18), it will still require about 120
man-years of expert services during implementation of its 1986-88 program.
As in the past years, bilateral sources will provide the bulk of this
assistance.  However, to fulfill OR's needs, about 36 man-years would be
provided by the project basically to strengthen OR's administrative and
operational capacity. In the past, OR has generally assessed its technical
assistance needs well and coordinated effectively  he various available
sources of financing.
3.08       Consulting services would also be provided to:  (a) improve and
expand the management information systen (25 man-months) and set up a cost
accounting system (25 man-months); (b) strengthen the management of the
equipment fleet and the organization of SGMTP's procurement department (40
man-months); (c) improve the management of human resources and introduce a
computerized data base for personnel management and training (15 man-
months); and (d) carry out specific small studies (30 ian-months) concern-



- 23 -
ing the development of the coastruction industry, the use of solar energy,
the reorganization of OR's general services department, and the location of
quarries. Draft terms of reference for these services have been prepared
by OR and agreed at negotiations. The project also includes 25 man-months
of consulting services for short-term missions, to be agreed with IDA
during project implementation, which would become necessary to assist OR in
improving management and carrying out economic studies.
3.09       The project would also assist OR to (a) improve its telecomunmi-
cation system, which is a key to its efficiency, by providing about 30
additional telexes, about 6 fixed and 60 mobile radiophones and
miscellaneous equipment; and (b) improve the management of human resources
by providing a computer system (including a maintenance contract) and
associated software at headquarters and micro-computers in each region.
(v) Training
3.10      The project would assist OR in strengthening its training capabi-
lities and in implementing its 1985-88 training program which was reviewed
by IDA and found satisfactory (see para. 2.17, Annex 2.10, Section (VII),
and Annex 3.4). This project component is complementary to the assistance
of other donors and takes into account OR's plans to reduce the use of
foreign experts in its training centers. It includes:
gi) 78 man-months of consulting services to provide training in the
field in civil works techniques and to start a systematic follow-
up of OR's training programs (36 man-months), to continue the
training of OR's accounting and financial staff (18 man-months),
to train OR's staff in the use of computers (18 man-months) and
to undertake various specific assignments (6 man-months).   The
substance of these services has been agreed with the appraisal
mission. Terms of reference are being prepared by OR.
(ii)  33 fellowships for OR's high level staff to take training ses-
sions outside Zaire in accordance with a program which is cur-
rently under preparation.
(iii)  Equipment, tools, books and various teaching materials in accor-
dance with a list which has been approved by the appraisal mis-
sion.
C. Cost Estimates and Project Financing
3.11        The total cost of the project is estimated at US$66.4 million
equivalent with a foreign component of US$55.0 million equivalent or 83% of
the total cost. Cost estimates are given in January 1985 prices. Physical
contingencies of lOZ have been included.    Price contingencies are based



- 24 -
on recent Bank estimates of inflation rates as follows: 1985: 5.0Z; 1986:
7.5%; 1987: 8.0%; 1988: 8.0% and 1989: 8.0Z. The same percentages for
local and foreign costs have been used under the assumption that the dif-
ference between local and international inflation will be compensated for
by exchange rate adjustments. Costs as given in Table 3.1 below are net of
taxes and duties estimated at about $0.8 million equivalent. At negotia-
tions, Government confirmed that it intends to exempt project expenditures
from taxes and duties.
Table 3.1 - Project Cost Estimates
(US$ million) *
z
Local   Foreign  Total  Foreign
I.    Road Maintenance
(i) Equipment                                2.63    14.90    17.53      85
(ii) Spare parts and tools for roads          2.12    12.00    14.12      85
Spare parts and tools for ferries        0.35     2.00      2.35     85
Ciii) Materials                                0.18      1.00     1.18     85
(iv) Manual Maintenance                       0.18      1.00     1.18     85
Sub-total I                    5.46    30.90    36.36
II.   Bridge Repair and Maintenance            1.67      3.00     4.67      64
III.  Construction of Access Ramps
for Ferries                              0.73     0.90      1.63     55
IV.   Technical Assistance, Consulting
Services and Office Equipment
Ci) Technical Assistance                     0.35     3.11      3.46     90
(ii) Consulting services                      0.18      1.58     1.76     90
(iii) Office equipment                         0.21      1.20     1.41     85
Sub-total IV                   0.74      5.89     6.63
V.    Training
Ci) Consulting services for training         0.08     0.70      0.78     90
(ii) Fellowships                              0.00     0.50      0.50    100
(iii) Equipment and teaching materials         0.05     0.30      0.35     85
Sub-total V                    0.13      1.50     1.63
Sub-total I - V                8.73    42.19    50.92       83
VI.   Contingencies
(i) Physical: (10%)                          0.87     4.22      5.09
(ii) Prices                                   1.78     8.59    10.37
Sub-total VI                   2.65    12.81    15.46       83
Total cost (net of taxes)         11.38    55.00    66.38      83
* January 1985 prices



- 25 -
3.12       Cost estimates are based on data provided by OR which have been
reviewed and found acceptable. They have been derived as follows: (i) for
equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies, estimates are based on re-
cent actual CIF costs (Katadi) plus a local component for handling and
local transport; (ii) for civil works on bridges and ferry accesses, esti-
mates are based on preliminary engineering for the quantities and on cur-
rent contracts for the unit prices; (iii) for technical assistance and con-
sultant services, estimates are based on actual costs for the same services
rendered under the Fifth Highway Project and other recent projects in
Zaire; (iv) the cost of the fellowships is estimated at US$15,000 for five-
month periods and includes tuition, housing, travel and subsistence.
3.13       The project's foreign exchange cost (US$55.0  million) would be
financed entirely by the proposed IDA credit (83X of total project cost).
The project's local costs (US$11.4 million equivalent) would be financed by
OR out of its own resources.
D. Implementation and Monitoring
3.14       The project would be implemented by OR.  Gravel/earth road rou-
tine and periodic maintenance, routine maintenance of paved roads, ferry
maintenance and operations would be carried out by OR's units.   Given
current economic constraints and the presently limited capabilities of
Zaire's construction industry (para 2.24), this is acceptable. Civil works
on bridges and access ramps for ferries would be executed by contract.
Technical assistance experts and consultants would assist in the develop-
ment and execution of the project. The training component would be imple-
mented by OR's Department of Human Resources. The project implementation
schedule is shown in Chart 2.
3.15          Implementation of the maintenance component would start on
January 1, 1986 as an uninterrupted continuation of the Fifth Highway Pro-
ject and would last three years. Equipment would be delivered before the
end of 1986.  Delivery of spare parts and supplies would begin in the
second quarter of 1986 and be spread over 1986 to 1988.  The bridge and
ferry components would be carried out over two years starting at the begin-
ning of 1987. Technical assistance, consulting services and implementation
of the training component would be spread over 1986 to 1988.
3.16       As under the Fifth Highway Project, OR's effectiveness and pro-
gress in the implementation of its work program would be measured by indi-
cators devised for all main activities.   In particular, as is currently
done, regional targets would be set yearly for each indicator in accordance
with network needs and OR's estimated operational capacity.   Annex 3.1
gives the 1986-88 objectives of maintenance by force account. Annex 3.2
gives detailed targets for 1986. Regional targets are based on the lengths
and types of roads, the number and composition of working units assigned to
the region and prevailing local conditions.   Annex 3.3 gives expected



- 26 -
standard outputs. Indicators of performance, which would be submitted for
IDA approval as part of OR's annual work program, would also include avail-
ability and utilization rates for equipment and ferries. At negotiations,
agreement was reached between OR and the Association on ti) project
implementation schedule and (ii) monitoring of OR's output by methods
acceptable to the Association.
E. Procurement
3.17      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.2 below:
Table 3.2 - Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method    Total
Project Element               ICB    LCB   Other   NA    Cost
-             US$ million-
I.   Road maintenance
(i) Equipment                           22.86    -    -          -      22.86
(19.45)   -    -         -    (19.45)
(ii) Spare parts and tools
for roads and ferries               17.38    -      4.10    -       21.48
(14.77)   -    (3.50)   -    (18.27)
(iii) Materials                             1.54    -       -      -       1.54
(1.30)   -       -      -      (1.30)
(iv) Manual Maintenance                    1.54    -       -      -       1.54
(1.30)   -       -      -      (1.30)
II.  Bridge Repair and Maintenance          0.54   3.40   2.00   0.15    6.09
(0.43) (2.19) (1.19) (0.10)  (3.91)
III. Access Ramps for Ferries                -     2.12    -       -       2.12
-    (1.17)   -       _      (1.17)
IV. Technical Assistance, Consulting
services and office equipment
(i) Technical assistance                  -       -      -      4.51    4.51
-      -       -    (4.06)  (4.06)
(ii) Consulting services                    -      -       -     2.29    2.29
-      -       -    (2.06)  (2.06)
(iii) Office equipment                      1.84    -       -      -       1.84
(1.56)   -       -      -      (1.56)
V.   Training
(i) Consulting services                   -       -      -      1.02    1.02
-      -       -    (0.90)  (0.90)
(ii) Fellowships                           -       -       -     0.63    0.63
-      -       -    (0.63)  (0.63)
(iii) Equipment and teaching materials    -         -      0.46    -       0.46
-      -    (0.39)   -       (0.39)
Total            45.70   5.52   6.56   8.60   66.38
(38.81) (3.36) (5.08) (7.75) (55.00)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts
proposed for financing by the new IDA credit.



- 27 -
3.18       Equipment, spare parts, tools, supplies, and materials financed
by the Association would be grouped whenever possible into contracts valued
at US$100,000 or more and would be procured through international
competitive biding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines (dated
August 1984). Unless otherwise agreed, all items would be procured on the
basis of lists approved by the Association. Spare parts, tools, supplies,
materials, and pedagogical equipment which cannot be grouped into
US$100,000 contracts and totalling no more than US$1.5 million would be
procured by international and local shopping on the basis of quotations
from at least three manufacturers, dealers, or suppliers.   Proprietary
spare parts would be procured by direct contracting after negotiations for
a total amount not to exceed US$2.5 million equivalent. Exceptions to ICB
would therefore not exceed US$4.0 million equivalent, or about 10 percent
of the concerned components' total.
3.19      Civil works contracts for bridge repair would be awarded follow-
ing Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) because the size of the contracts is
unlikely to attract foreign contractors. Local procedures have been re-
viewed by the appraisal mission and found acceptable. For reasons of stan-
dardization, direct contracts would be negotiated with the supplier of the
steel superstructures to be replaced. Civil works contracts for ferry ac-
cess ramps would also be awarded following LCB.
3.20      All contracts above US$100,000 (about 87% of total project cost
excluding technical assistance, consulting services, and fellowships) would
be submitted to prior review by the Association. This is justified since
OR handled well in the past procurement under small contracts.
3.21      The contracts of technical assistance personnel already in place
would be renewed as appropriate; if necessary, new experts would be re-
cruited. Terms and conditions of these contracts would be satisfactory to
the Association and in accordance with the August 1981 Guidelines for the
use of consultants. All consultants would also be selected in accordance
with the Guidelines. Terms of reference and conditions of employment would
be  satisfactory  to  the Association.   Training would  be provided  by
specialized institutions selected by OR in accordance with its specific
needs and after consulting several possible candidates. The programs would
be submitted for IDA's approval.
F. Disbursements
3.22      IDA credit funds would be disbursed on the following basis:
(i)   Spare parts, supplies, equipment and materials: 1OOZ of foreign
expenditures; 80% of local expenditures for ex-factory cost; and
75% of local expenditures for other items purchased domestically;
(ii)   Civil works: 65% of total expenditures.
(iii)   Technical assistance, consulting services and data processing and
telecommunications equipment:   100% of foreign expenditures and
80% of local expenditures;
(iv)   Training fellowships teaching materials and related consultants
services: 100% of total expenditures.



- 28 -
3.23       All claims would be fully documented except for claims relating
to any contract or purchase order whose value is less than US$20,000 that
would be submitted under statements of expenditures. The documentation for
these claims would be held in OR and made available for inspection by pro-
ject supervision missions.  In order to expedite and facilitate disburse-
ments, a Special Account would be opened in a financial establishment ac-
ceptable to the Association.   The Association would deposit an amount of
US$1.5 million equivalent in foreign exchange. All IDA financed expendi-
tures would be eligible for financing under the Special Account unless
otherwise agreed to by the Association. The Account will be replenished on
the basis of withdrawal applications submitted monthly.
3.24      The estimated schedule of disbursement is shown in Table 3.3.  It
does not follow the typical sectoral disbursement profile for the region,
but is realistic since disbursement estimates are based on the project im-
plementation schedule and are consistent with the disbursement profiles of
IDA's recent Fourth and ongoing Fifth Highway Projects in the country. A
one-year delay from the end of the physical execution of the project until
the last payment is given to allow for delays in completing disbursements.
Table 3.3 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements (US$'000)
IDA Fiscal Year                     Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                            at End of Quarter
1986
March 31, 1986                                 1,500
June 30, 1986                                  5,000
1987
September 30, 1986                            10,000
December 31, 1986                             15,000
March 31, 1987                                20,000
June 30, 1987                                 25,000
1988
September 30, 1987                            30,000
December 31, 1987                             35,000
March 31, 1988                                40,000
June 30, 1988                                 45,000
1989
September 30, 1988                            50,000
December 31, 1988                             52,000
March 31, 1989                                53,000
June 30, 1989                                 54,000
1990
September 30, 1989                            54,500
December 31, 1989                             55,000
Closing Date: December 31, 1989
Source: Appraisal Estimate- July 1984



- 29 -
G. Auditing and Reporting Requirements
3.25        OR is a public sector enterprise and as such is required to
prepare accounts according to Zaire's general commercial accounting stan-
dards.   In recent years OR has considerably strengthened its accounting
function (see para. 2.26). At negotiations it agreed to continue to have
its annual accounts and finanicial statements, including the project-related
statements of expenditures and the Special Account, audited during the
project period by independent auditors acceptable to the Association no
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
3.26        At negotiations, OR also agreed to prepare quarterly progress
reports which would include all the indicators and informations listed in
Annex 3.5; the reports would be submitted to the Association no later than
three months after the end of each quarter.  OR also agreed to prepare a
project completion report in a form acceptable to the Assoclation no later
than six months after the closing date of the project.
H. Environmental Aspects
3.27          None of the project's elements would adversely affect the
environment. All project roads follow the existing alignment and no dis-
turbance to land use would occur. Furthermore the new or improved drainage
facilities and accesses to bridges and ferries would benefit adjacent
areas.



- 30 -
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. General
4.01        Since the first PIP (1979), one of Zaire's top priorities has
been to improve the condition of its road network, mainly because roads
play a key role in linking very spread out population and economic activi-
ties to the main river/rail transport network and sometimes directly to the
main urban centers. Better roads are also expected to have a direct impact
on agriculture which, together with mining, are key to the recovery of
Zaire's economy. Substantial progress started with the Fourth Highway Pro-
ject (1980-82) when OR was established nationwide. This progress is being
consolidated under the Fifth Highway Project (1983-85) as OR completes de-
centralization of its operations and gives more responability to regional
production units.  For the first time OR has adequate resources in local
currency, and enough foreign exchange for its spare parts needs, and is in
a position to address the needs of the main road network. The main purpose
of the proposed project is to support this strategy.   As presented in
paras. 2.33 to 2.43, OR's three-year highway program comprises seven compo-
nents.   The two main components are analyzed in this section4!.   OR's
analysis of the bridge and ferry components (see Annex 2.10) have been re-
viewed by IDA and found satisfactory.
B. Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.02        The components of OR's 1986-88 program that IDA would help
finance would mainly increase OR's productivity by providing it with better
equipment and appropriate amounts of spare parts, by fostering adequate
technologies and by strengthening OR's organization and staff. As a re-
sult, the average quality of earth roads should improve substantially.
Adequate routine maintenance of paved roads and routine and periodic main-
tenance of bridges would be pursued and ferries would continue to improve.
The consequence would be lower vehicle operating costs (a substantial part
of which are in foreign exchange, particularly spare parts, fuel and vehi-
cle wear), better use of vehicles because of higher speed, and increased
reliability of road transport.
4.03      Since the road transport industry has proven to be very competi-
tive in Zaire over the recent past, the above benefits would to a great ex-
tent be passed on to producers and to consumers.  This would result espe-
cially in cheaper food prices in urban areas, in higher profit margins for
farmers and increased consumption of agriculture inputs and finished pro-
ducts in rural areas - to the extent that marketing systems improve and
develop, which can reasonably be expected. Some transport bottlenecks that
hamper agriculture production would also disappear or be avoided. In addi-
4/   For the purpose of economic analysis, technical assistance has been
included in the road maintenance component.  Training has not been
included, since it is assumed to be justified by itself and IDA's
thorough review ensures that a least cost solution is implemented.



- 31 -
tion, other substantial but not quantifiable benefits would accrue to rural
areas from easier movements of people and better penetration of various
support services.
C. Economic Analysis
Routine and Periodic Maintenance of Gravel/Earth Roads
4.04      This component is the most important in OR's 1986-88 program.  It
covers about 56% of total program costs. The following economic analysis
is  based  on  various  assumptions  which  are  explained  below  in  two
alternative scenarios, the "with" and the "without program- cases.   The
analysis is also based on investment and operating costs developed by the
appraisal mission, on traffic estimates -  averages of 22 vehicles per day
(vpd) on national roads and 6 vpd on main regional roads with 75% heavy and
25% light vehicles -  which result from OR's 1978 traffic analysis5/ and
on vehicles operating costs (VOC - see Annex 4.1) developed by OR and
equivalent to those of similar countries in Africa. The analysis has been
carried out on a ten-year period, roughly the service life of the major
items of civil works equipment that need to be replaced. Rather than only
the program itself, it is the maintenance strategy over the ten-year period
which is analyzed. Residual values for equipment and work done have been
taken into account.   No conversion factors have been used for foreign
exchange and labor inputs, since their respective shares are about the same
in costs and benefits. All prices are in January 1, 1985 terms.
4.05      The "with program" case.  The 1986-88 equipment renewal program
is assumed to continue, as existing equipment wears outs, in order to main-
tain OR's 1988 capacity (as outlined in Annex 3.1). Small investments in
civil works, buildings and equipment related to maintenance are accounted
for.  Operating costs (including technical assistance costs) are deduced
from OR's detailed highway program (Annex 2.10).   Road conditions are
expected to improve until 1989.  All national roads, except those which
have drastically deteriorated until now, would then be in good condition
and all main regional roads in average condition. This would be maintained
in the following years (see Annex 4.2)6/.
4.06      The "without program" case.  OR would still provide the level of
maintenance required to keep all national roads in an average condition
(basically 20,000 km of grading and 900,000 m3 of regravelling annually).
This would require a much lower level of equipment renewal and operating
expenditures as OR would need only about one-third of its 1988 capacity.
Personnel and technical assistance costs would be cut to one-third of -with
project" value. Road condition would deteriorate rapidly. In 1989 all na-
tional roads that would not have been rehabilitated recently would be in
5/ No generated traffid has been taken into account. A traffic increase
of 3X per year from 1985 on has been assumed.
6/ OR has carried out an analysis of various maintenance strategies which
shows that the additional costs of maintaining main regional roads in
good condition are not worth the benefits.



- 32 -
average condition and all main regional roads in very bad condition. This
situation would be maintained thereafter. The 6,000 km of roads rehabili-
tated under the Fifth Highway Project would, however, remain in good condi-
tion until the end of their economic life (see Annex 4.2).
4.07      The costs and benefits streams related to this component are de-
tailed in Annex 4.3. The resulting base case economic rate of return (ERR)
is about 39%.  This is a relatively low ERR for such a road maintenance
program. The main reasons are: (i) the urgent need for equipment renewal
(and therefore capital needs in the first years) due to insufficient fund-
ing in past years, (ii) the relatively low traffic which is a consequence
of Zaire's low population density and (iii) the choice of an economically
efficient -without project" case in which a substantial amount of work
would still be carried out to make the most of the current achievements.
4.08       Several sensitivity scenarios have also been analyzed:  (i) if
the residual value of work done is not taken into account, the ERR de-
creases to about 36%; (ii) if traffic remains constant at its estimated
1985 level, the ERR decreases to about 28% (25% if the residual value of
work done is not taken into account); (iii) if OR's additional output 1s
only 75% of expected output, the ERR decreases to about 25% (18% if the re-
sidual value of work done is not taken into account).   These results are
discussed below in paras. 4.13 and 4.15.
Repaving of Paved Roads
4.C9      OR's proposal to strengthen various sections of five roads total-
ling 448 km has also been assessed by the appraisal mission because, al-
though not part of the Project, it is a very important component of OR's
1986-88 highway program. The economic analysis of these five sub-projects
is based on a number of estimates concerning present traffic, respective
traffic shares of light and heavy vehicles, and cost of maintenance of the
road sections in the "with- and 'without project" cases. These estimates
are in Annex 4.4. In addition, the analysis assumes that the traffic would
increase on average 3Z per year and that if the sub-projects were not c&r-
ried out, the road sections would deteriorate very rapidly to the extent
that some rehabilitation work would be necessary to bring them back to the
condition of a good quality earth road. Vehicle operating costs are given
in Annex 4.1. The analysis is carried out over the road pavement service
life.
4.10      The cost/benefit streams are set out in Annex 4.5.  They indicate
the following ERRs:
Table 4.  - ERRs for Repaving of Paved Roads
Road                  ERR
Matadi-Kinshasa               49%
Lubumbashi-Likasi             39%
Likasi-Kolwezi                22%
Nsele-Kenge                   24%
Likasi-Kambove                28%



- 33 -
These results confirm the conclusion of para. 2.36; these ERRs are very
satisfactory.
4.11      Several sensitivity scenarios have also been analyzed for the two
above sub-projects with the higher and lower returns (i) if traffic remains
constant at its estimated 1985 level, the ERRs for the Matadi-Kinshasa and
Likasi-Kolwezi roads decrease to about 42% and 19% respectively; (ii) if
project costs increase by 20% or 30%, the ERRs for the same roads decrease
to about 39% or 35%, and 16% or 14%, respectively; (iii) if traffic remains
constant and project costs increase by 20%, the ERRs decrease to 33Z and
14%, respectively.   These results are discussed below in paras. 4.14 and
4.15.
D. Risks
4.12      The main quantifiable risks to the above rates of return are that
(i) OR's productivity would be lower than expected (road maintenance com-
ponent); (ii) costs of the repaving work would be higher than anticipated
(road repaving component); and (iii) traffic would not increase (both com-
ponents). These risks are discussed below.
4.13       OR's productivity might not achieve the expected levels for a
variety of reasons, the most important of which are: (i) deterioration in
organization and management; (ii) shortages of fuel; and (iii) inadequate
local funding for current expenditures. Given past years' achievements and
the positive trend, especially concerning strengthening of internal con-
trols, the current policy of concentrating OR's limited means on most
important road sections and the results of OR's extensive training efforts,
the risks of deterioration in organization and management are limited. At
negotiations, Government agreed not to make any change in OR's responsibi-
lities and organization without first consulting the Association.  Short-
ages of fuel have been a serious problem in the past, mainly because of the
inadecuacy of the distribution system, a question which is addressed by
IDA's current review of Zaire's energy sector. At negotiations, Government
agreed to take all steps necessary to ensure that OR will promptly get in
adequate quantity the fuel it requires for its operations. Local funding
has much improved in the recent past, to a large extent because of the
large increase in the road tax on fuel, but the level as well as the
regularity of payment remain a risk. At negotiations, Government agreed to
provide OR with all local funds required to finance the road maintenance,
repaving, bridges and ferry programs, technical assistance and training
included in OR's five-year rolling highway program (para. 2.43).   The
project's design also takes the risk of inadequate local funding into
account since it includes a large amount of spare parts and would allow OR
to function even under very adverse conditions.  If sufficient funds are
not available, OR is also expected to revise its work program and submit it
to IDA for approval (para. 3.04).  The sensitivity analysis (para. 4.08)
shows that if OR's additional output due to implementation of its road
maintenance program is considerably reduced, the ERR is still acceptable.



- 34 -
4.14       The cost of repaving work could be higher if the economic envi-
ronment surrounding private contractors does not continue to improve or if
more work than anticipated needs to be carried out. However, since esti-
mated costs are based on very recent contracts for similar works and there
are indications of increased competition amng contractors, the risk of
higher costs is limited. The sensitivity analysis (para. 4.11) shows that
if costs increased substantially, the ERRs for the road repaving works
would still be acceptable.
4.15         Traffic could remain at its current level if the economic
recovery that has started recently did not continue. Given the growth of
urban areas and the high proportion of food products in road transport
traffic, the risk of traffic stagnation is low. The sensitivity analyses
(para. 4.08 and 4.11) show that even with no traffic increase, the two main
components of OR's program would still be justified.



- 35 -
V. AGREEMlTS RE&CHED AND RECOME2DAIIONS
5.01      The following items were discussed with the Government and OR and
agreed upon at negotiations:
(i)  Government to maintain at all times the prices of gasoline and
diesel oil above their respective economic costs (para. 1.23);
(ii) Government to submit by December 31, 1985, for comments by IDA, a
program of action for regulating and enforcing axle-loads and
promptly thereafter implement the program taking IDA's comments
into account (para 2.08);
(iii) Government to furnish to "DA its recommendations for road user
charges by December 31, 1985, exchange views on those and
thereafter maintain such charges at levels sufficient to cover
the cost of road use (para 2.10);
(iv) Government to provide OR with the resources to: (a) repay within
one year from March 1, 1985, all its local currency debt overdue
by more than 90 days as of such date; and (b) pay its contractors
promptly in accordance with the contracts signed with them (para
2.31);
(v) Government and OR to revise the terms of reference of OR's
planning unit and staff it adequately by December 31, 1985
(para. 2.32);
(vi) Government and OR to produce by March 1, each year, beginning in
1986, a five-year rolling highway program starting with the
current year as well as a review of implementation of the
previous year's program (para . 2.32);
(vii) the content and implementation schedule of OR's five-year rolling
highway program to be based on a reasonable forecast of available
local and external funds and according to economic criteria
acceptable to IDA (para. 2.42);
(viii)   For any new investment or sub-program in excess of US$5.0 million
equivalent, Government to furnish to IDA a study whose
methodology is acceptable to IDA, establishing the technical,
economic and financial viability of the new proposal prior to its
inclusion in the five-year rolling highway program (para 2.42);
(ix) Government to take all necessary steps to: (i) provide OR each
year with the funds necessary to finance, at least, the road
maintenance, repaving, bridge and ferry works, technical
assistance and training included in OR's five-year rolling
highway program; (ii) ensure that the needed funds are provided,
besides foreign contributions, by the road tax on fuels; (iii)
ensure that yearly road tax proceeds are never inferior to
US$50.0 million equivalent (in mid-1986 terms); and (iv) cor_Unue
to transfer road tax proceeds directly to OR;



- 36 -
(x) OR to submit, starting November 30, 1985, its annual work
programs to IDA for review and approval at least one month before
the start of each year; already agreed work programs not to be
modified without IDA's approval (para 3.04);
(xi) project implementation schedule (para. 3.16);
(xii) OR to monitor its output by methods acceptable to IDA (para.
3.16);
(x;ii) OR to have its annual accounts and financial statements including
the project related statemants of expenditures and Special
Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, no
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (para.
3.25);
(xiv) OR to prepare a quarterly progress report in a form acceptable to
IDA and to submit it to InA no later than three month after the
end of each quarter; OR to prepare a project completion report in
a form acceptable to IDA no later than six months after the
closing date of the project (para. 3.26);
(xv)   Government  not to make any change in OR's responsibilities and
organization without first consulting IDA (para. 4.13);
(xvi)   Government to take all steps necessary to ensure that OR will
promptly get in adequate quantities the fuel it requires for its
operations (para. 4.13).
(xvii) Government to continue monitoring traffic yearly on the country's
most important road section (para. 2.04).
5 02         A condition of Credit effectiveness would be that Goverment
establish an interministerial technical committee which includes OR to re-
gularly review the adequacy of OR's fuel tax level and to propose necessary
adjustments to Government (para. 2.30).
5.03      Agreement having been reached on the items in para. 5.01 and 5.02
above, the proposed project is suitable for a Credit of SDR's 55.5 million
(US$55.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms.



- 37 -
Annex 1-1
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Structure of Fuel Prices
Gasoline 1/          Diesel Oil 1/
(z/l)                   WI7TF
- Average CIF Price 2/                     11.40                   12.99
- Distribution Cost                         4.53                    4.64
of which:
Transport to main dist. centers         1.75                    1.76
Worksing expenses Zaire - SEP 3/        1.05                    1.05
Working expenses retailers              0.61                    0.61
Profit margin retailers                 1.12                    1.22
- Taxes                                     7.14                    3.57
of which:
Consumption tax                         0.60                    0.10
Road tax                             - 3.40                     3.40
Treasury fund                           3.00                    0.00
Other taxes                             0.14                    0.07
Total                            23.07                   21.20
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-Perequation04/                          +6.93                   -2.70
Retail price                             30.00                   18.50
1/ Zaire/liter as of January 1985 (Source: Petro-Zaire). This price
structure was changed again on April 22, 1985. Details are not yet
available.
2/ Average cost of all imports of finished products and of refinery
outputs (including some financial charges).
3/ Zaire - SEP organizes distribution of fuel products from the border to
wholesale centers.
4/ Perequation- is a financial cross-subsidy mechanism used to reduce the
price of fuel oil and diesel oil by an additional charge on gasoline
price.



ZAIRE
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
National and Main Regional Roads
Region                    National Roads            Main Regional Roads            Total Regions
Paved   Earth/Gravel   Total        Earth/Gravel         Paved   Earth/Gravel   Total
Bas Zaire                601          779       1,380             891              601       1,670       2,271
Bandundu                 361        1,816       2,177           3,505             361        5,321       5,682
Equateur                   -        2,939       2,939           2,707               -        5,646       5,646
Haut-Zaire                123       3,489       3,612           3,578              123       7,067       7,190
Kivu                     408        2,485       2,893           2,639              408       5,124       5,532
Shaba                    486        3,578       4,064           4,024             486        7,602       8,088
Kasai Occidental           -        1,909       1,909           1,230               -        3,139       3,139
Kasai Oriental            132       1,325       1,457           1,627              132       2,952       3,084
Kinshasa                 252          -           252             -               252          -           252
All Regions            2,363       18,320      20,683          20,201           2,363       38,521      40,884
--      r -, ,---,-,,                ,, ,             ,, ,, _     __                     00
Source OR-July 1984



- 39 -
Annex 2-2
ZAIRE
Sixth Righuay Proj ect
Staff Appraisal Report
Road Condition by Region
Since serviceability of roads can not be established by roughness
measurements, the network is inspected monthly and road condition rated on
the basis of average travel speed of a four wheel drive motor vehicle. The
rating is as follows: Good (better than 50 km/hour), Fair (30-50 kmlhr)
and Poor (lower than 30 km/hr). Based on this scale, as of December 31,
1984, the road system was classified as follows:
Rating Z
Region               Good       Fair      Poor
Bas Zaire                 79        17         4
Bandundu                  53        31        16
Equateur                  68        17         15
Haut Zaire                54        29         17
Kivu                      56        20        24
Shaba                    74         19         7
Kasai Occidental         41         37        22
Kasai Oriental            55        28        17
Kinshasa                  91         9         0
Country Average           61        24        15
Source OR, December 1984
Taking into consideration that in the last decade less than 20% of the
roads have been rehabilitated, it is obvious that OR's rating system and
the above results are largely influenced by the timing of grading
activities which provide only temporary improvement of driving conditions
and do not reflect the residual strength and bearing capacity as needed in
adverse conditions. The annual ratio of rehabilitation should also be
taken into consideration in evaluating the serviceability of the road
network.



- 40 -
Annex 2-3
ZAIRE
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Estimates of Traffic Volumes
Estimated Average
Daily Traffic
Road Category            Length    Cumulated Total       Vehieles/Day
(km)      Traffic in Z    Maximum    Minimum
National Roads
Paved                  2,400           50             500        100
Unpaved               18,300           86             250         10
Main Regional Roads
Unpaved               20,200           97              50          5
Secondary Regional Roads
Unpaved               17,100           99               5          0
Local Roads                  87.000          100               3          0
Totals                       145,000
Source OR, July 1984



- 41 -
Annex 2-4
FAIR
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appralsal Report
Yearly Consu ption of Gasoline and Diesel Oil
Year         Gasoline          Diesel Oil          Total
(Co0o m3)                          ( '000  ('000 m3)
1972            230                366              596
1973            235                368              603
1974            233                370              603
1975            251                376              627
1976            242                362              614
1977            196               - 343             539
1978            168                339              507
1979            162                309              471
1980            14-9               367              516
1981            151                392              543
1982            137                375              512
1983            140                414              554
1984 (est.)      -                  -               520
Source: -  Etude sur le prix des carburants et de leurs incidences sur
le secteur des transports", ENERTRANS, March 1984.
- Ministry of Planning, 1985



- 42 -
Annex 2-5
ZAThE
Sixth Rigbway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
O'R's Tralndug results:  1981 to 1983
Type of Training Session                     Total Staff Trained
1981   1982   1983   Total
Basic Training
Civil works and ferries
Supervisory staff                     26     40    129    195
Drivers                              153    218    227    598
Others                                36     99    157    292
Mechanical Maintenance
Supervisory staff                                    14     14
Mechanics                             27     43      38    108
Others                                   28     25      45     98
Training for New Equipment
Civil works and ferries                  12     70      32    114
Mechanical maintenance                   18    172      38    228
Seminars
Management                               62    102      51    215
Accounting and finance                   50     38      90    178
Pedagogy                                  7     22      14     43
Specialized training                      -      -      30     30
2,113
Source: OR, July 1984



Annex 2.6
Staff Appralsal Reporc
Sixth Highway Project
Techbical Assistance to OR at end 1985
Destination
and Department       Office               Function                Authority  Number
I.Management        General Manager       General Manager          in line     1
Technical Director   Assistant to              adviser     1
Technical Director
Administrative       Assistant to Adminis-    adviser      1
Director             trative Director
Organization and     Assistant to              adviser     1
Methods Unit         Head of Unit
Planning Unit        Head of Unit              adviser     1
Management and       Assistant to              adviser
Control Unit         Head of Unit
Sub-total I              6
II.General
Directorate
Budget and Control  Accounting           Accountant                adviser     1
General Services    Director of the      Procurement Officer       adviser     1
Department
Human  Resources    Training             Assistant to Director    adviser      1
Equipment Manage-   Director of the       Director of Department   in  line    1
ment              Department
Road Equipment       Director                  in line     1
Road Equipment       Supply Officer            in line     3
Ferries Equipment    Director                  in line     1
Ferries Equipment    Supply Officer            in line     1
Financing            Financial Analyst         adviser     1
Roads               Construction          Senior Engineer          adviser     1
Maintenance          Senior Engineer           adviser     1
Research             Senior Engineer           adviser     1
Sub-total II            14
III. Regional
Offices
Administration      Regional Office       Regional Technical       in line     9
Director
Equipment           Road Workshops       Read of Unit              in line     6
Management          Road Workshops        Traveling Mechanics      in line     7
Ferries Workshops    Read of Unit              in line     3
Lubumbashi Supply    Head of Unit              in line     1
Unit
Training Centers    Regional Offices      Regional Managers        in line     3
Mechanical Training  Head of Unit              in line     I
Unit
Sub-total III           30
Total 1,11,III                 50
Source: OR, October 1984/Appraisal Mission



- 44 -
Annex 2.7
ZAR
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
I. Renewal Value of OR's Equipment Fleet
Type of Equipment                          Renewal Value
(US$ million)
Civil Works Equipment (mainly bulldozers,
loaders, graders and compactors)           50.0
Trucks                                        31.0
Small Vehicles                                10.0
Other Equipment                                9.0
100.0
I-. Age of Major items in OR's EqLuipment Fleet
Breakdown by Age
Type of           0-5 years      5-10 years      10-15 Years      Total
Equipment         Number  Z     Number   Z      Number    %      Number
Bulldozers         58    53       41     38       10       9        109
Loaders            69    50       21     15      49       35        139
Graders            11     6       74     43       89      51        174
Compactors         49    40        9      7       65      53        123
Dump Trucks 12T   45   100        0       0        0       0         45
Dump Trucks 8T   323    70        84     18       55      12        462
Other Trucks      170    60      81      28       35      12        286
Although the economic life of civil works equipment and trucks can be
assumed at best to be 10 and 6 years respectively, a substantial part of
OR's fleet is older.
Source: OR, July 1984



- 45 -
Annex 2.8
ZAIRE
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Suimua_y Description of OR's Ferry Fleet
Number          Size               Renewal Value
(Ton)             (US$ Million)
1             300                  15.0
1             120                   5.0
2              50                   3.0
13              35                   6.0
74            12-20 (engine)        12.0
137            12-20 (winch)         19.0
60.0
Source: OR, July 1984/Appraisal mission



- 46 -
Annex 2-9
ZAT
Sixth igbway Project
Staff Appralsal Report
FUnad received by OR fro- Government Sources
Year          Recurrent Budget 1/   Investment Bud et            Total
(million Z)                                   (million Z)
Current   Constant2/  Current   Constant2/  Current  Constant2/
1977          33.4      725.4         5.7      123.8        39.1      849.2
1978          29.8      435.9        14.3      209.2        44.1      645.1
1979          82.8      579.8         0.4        2.8        83.2      582.6
1980         130.8      644.8         8.4       41.4       139.2      686.2
1981         178.4      651.5        15.5       56.6       193.9      708.1
1982         234.0      623.5        48.0       127.9      282.0      751.4
1983         440.0       666.4       51.3       77.7       491.3      744.1
1984         900.0       900.0      140.0       140.0    1,040.0    1,040.0
1985 3/    1,770.0    1,361.5       360.0      277.0    2,130.0    1,638.5
Source: OR, July 1984
1/ Mostly from Zaire's recurrent badget until 1982; from the road tax on
gasoline and diesel oil afterwards.
2/ Using DMF consumer prices indices and assuming 30Z inflation in 1985 -
expressed in 1984 terms
3/ Estimates from OR's budget



- 47 -
Annex 2-10
Page 1 of 21
Z-A
Sixth HRighway Project.
Staff Appraisal Report
OR's 1986-1988 Co preheuive Eighway Program
1.01      OR's 1986-88 program includes seven main components:  (i) routine
maintenance of the entire road network and periodic maintenance of gravel/
earth roads, (ii) repaving of deteriorated paved roads; (iii) a bridge pro-
gram; (iv) a ferry program; (v) paved road construction; (vi) technical as-
sistance, studies and office equipment; and (vii) training.   As detailed
in Table 8.1 at the end of this annex, the program's total estimated cost
would be US$376.4 million about 51Z of which would be in foreign exchange.
In this annex, the seven above components are presented in some details as
well as their technical justification.  The economic justification of the
two main components (road maintenance and road repaving) is in Chapter IV
of the main text. OR's own economic evaluation, is mentioned in this annex
for the other components.
I.  Routine *AItee of the Entire Network and
Periodic Me-atimteanc of Gravel/earth Roads
(a) Description
1.02      This component of OR's program includes the following:
(i)  systematic periodic and routine maintenance on the national gravel/
earth roads (18,300 km); (ii) occasional periodic maintenance and systema-
tic routine maintenance on the main regional gravel/earth roads (20,200
km); and (iii) systematic routine maintenance of paved roads, bridges and
ferries, and operations of the ferries. At the end of the proposed pro-
gram, passenger car traffic would again be possible on most national roads
and driving conditions would be adequate for four-wheel drive vehicles on
the main regional roads.
(b) Cost Estimates
1.03       OR's total cost estimate for this component without contingen-
cies, is US$163.0 million (local cost US$102.9 million and foreign cost
US$60.1 million) as indicated in table 1.1:



- 48 -                      Annex 2-10
Page 2 of 21
Table 1.1 - Cost Estimates of Maintenance Component 1/
Local     Foreign      Total
----US$ million*            -
Ci)  Perso7nel                             36.0         -           36.0
(ii)  Equipment renewal                     15.0         35.0        50.0
(iii) Spare Parts for:
-civil works equipment                6.0         17.0        23.0
-ferries                              0.9          4.1         5.0
(iv)  Fuel and Lubricants                   24.0           0         24.0
(v)  Materials                              3.0          1.0         4.0
(iv)  Manual maiatenance                     3.0          3.0         6.0
(vii)  Small investmenus/miscellaneous
expenditures                        15.0           0         15.0
Total                     102.9        60.1        163.0
* In Mid-1984 terms
I/ This component includes also all OR's operating expenditures.
Cc) Implementation
1.04       The program would be implemented by force account.  Except for
the reorganization of manual maintenance administration, no increase in
staff numbers and no extension of the equipment fleet are planned.   How-
ever, a substantial increase in productivity would be achieved by:
Ci)  expanding training programs for staff at all levels;
(ii)  maintaining adequate salaries including incentive schemes;
(iii)  replacing of equipment that ended its economic life;
Uiv)   providing  fuel,  spare parts  and materials in adequate
quantities;
(v) improving communication and supply lines;
(vi)  improving management, accounting and control;
(d) Justification
General
1.05      As explained in the following paragraphs OR's proposals for this
component are in general well justified.   There could be discussions on
specific items but on the whole the needs are correctly assessed and
costed. The shares allocated to local and foreign costs represents, how-
ever, OR's financiag plan and underestimate considerably the true forelgn
costs (particularly for fuel and lubricants).
Technical Considerations
1.06        In Zaire the surface course of a gravel/earth road consists
mostly of an overlay in laterite or gravel, about 10-15 cm. thick. It is



- 49 -                        Annex 2-10
Page 3 of 21
wearing out at an annual rate of 1 to 2 cm depending on the geometry  of
the road, the traffic conditions and its own mechanical characteristics.
Consequently every 5 to 15 years the road needs to be rehabilitated, an
operation which is called the periodic maiutenance of the road.  Routine
maintenance of the road surface consists in reshaping the wearing course
manually or mechanically without adding laterite or gravel. By providing
adequate periodic and routine maintenance all-weather roads can be built
and maintained for all year round passenger car traffic at design speed.
Replacement of Equipment
1.07        A Large part of OR's equipment is old and obsolete and its
operating cost and reliability have been of increasing concern (see Chapter
II, paras. 2.19 to 2.21).  Equipment needs were reviewed by OR's regional
staff in 1984; the condition of the existing fleet was then assessed and
lists of equipment to be replaced drawn; these lists were later scaled down
to fit available external funds and to be consistent with the other priori-
ties of OR's comprehensive highway program.
Table 1.2 - Summary of Civil Works Equipment, Trucks and Vehicles
to be Replaced under OR's 1986-88 Program
Equipment Type         Quantity         Unit Price      Estimated Total Cost
U-S$            US$ million
Bulldozers 140 HP          28             100,000                2.80
Loaders 130 HP             46              70,000                3.22
Graders 150 HP            118             100,000               11.80
Compactors IOT             24              60,000                1.44
Dumptrucks 12T            308              45,000               13.86
Trucks 12T                 79              40,000                3.16
Tanktrucks 8T              89              31,000                2.76
Pick-ups                  162              14,000                2.27
Minibusses                 35              38,000                1.33
Passenger cars             97               8,000                0.78
Other equipment                                                  6.58
Total                                                         50.00
OR's estimates for equipment replacement are satisfactory. They would re-
sult in a slight decrease in OR's total equipment fleet and correspond to a
work program and productivity targets that are acceptable to IDA (see
Annexes 3.1 to 3.3).
Spare Parts
1.08         Working with old equipment is costly since major and more
frequent breakdowns occur, re;uiring larger quantities of spare parts.  It
is generally accepted that yearly consumption of spare parts as a percent-
age of the replacement value varies from 2% for new to 15% for old equip-



- 50 -
Annex 2-10
Page 4 of 21
ment depending on the type and quality and the care that is taken for ope-
rating and maintaining the equipment.  Decreased availability of equip-
ment also reduces overall job efficiency and outputs.
1.09      OR's workshops have the capability and the capacity for carrying
out not only  routine repairs and overhauls but also for converting and re-
building old units.    OR has estimated its spare parts needs over the
1986-88 period as follows: (i) 8% yearly of the renewal value of the road
equipment: US$ 23.0 million; (ii) 3% yearly of the renewal value of the
ferries: US$5.0 million. This is ia line with past experience and avail-
able data for other countries and based on the realistic assumption that
the new equipment would have been delivered by end 1986.
Fuel and Lubricants
1.10      Based on operating the civil works equipment for 750 hours yearly
the trucks for 25,000 km, other vehicles for 30,000 km and ferries as
needed, 17 million liters of gas oil and 0.7 million liters of lubricants
would be necessary. This amounts to about US$ 24.0 million at current ex-
change rate over the 1986-88 period.
Materials
1.11        Implementatiou of the maintenance program requires materials,
mainly bituinmous binders, cement, aggregates, wood, concrete and steel
pipes and culverts, steel beams, steel plates, steel for reinforcement and
other steel products. Cost estimates which reflect past trends are US$4.0
million.
Manual Maintenance
1.12      OR's current policy consists of imrlementing part of the routine
maintenance in densely populated areas manually, whenever salaries and in-
centives motivate local labor forces to undertake this hard work. During
recent years about 12,000 km of roads have been maistained manually, two
thirds by contract work and one third by force acount. Lump sum contracts,
based on identical unit prices for the whole country, have been awarded to
private enterprises, public agencies, local governmemt and missionaries.
If works are carried out satisfactorily, contracts are renewed yearly. The
force account work has been carried out by workers who do not belong to
OR's regular staff and are hired by OR on a weekly basis. Supervision has
been the responsibility of the OR engineer, director of the production
unit, operating in the subregion.
1.13         Under OR's 1986-88 program, present policies would remain
unchanged but organization would be strengthened considerably.   Zaire is
organized administratively in regions (9), subregions (25) and zones (130)
and OR is represented at the regional and subregional levels by the region-
al offices and the production units respectively.  The decision has been
taken in 1984 to further decentralize OR by creating 130 zone engineers
responsable for management of manual maintenance.  The zone egineers would
(i) have their residences with the Zone Commissionners; (ii) depend h!'erar-
chically from the Director of OR's corresponding production unit; (iii)



-51- 
Annex 2-10
Page 5 of 21
mainly be responsible for manual maiatenance ou national and regional
roads; (iv) occasionally act as consultants for local roads if asked for by
the Regiosal Commissionners.
1.14         OR would proceed progressively with the nomination of zone
engineers as trained engineers and equipment for transportationu  commuica-
tion and operations become available. Fourty nine densely populated zones
where marketing of foodcrops is a necessity or where agricultural projects
are under way are on the priority list as indicated in Table 1.3.
Table 1.3 - Priority list for Zone Engineers
Regions         Sub-Regions                  Zones                 Nombre
Baz-Zaire         Lukaya             Kimvula-Madimba-Kasangulu           3
Bandundu          Kwango             Fesh1-Kahemba-Kasongo-              6
Lunda-Popokabaka-Kenge
Equateur          Equateur           Bikoro-Ingeude-Basankusu--          5
Bomongo-Bolamba
Mongala           Lisala-Bumba-Bongandanga            3
Haut-Zaire        Tshopo             Ubundu-Isangi-Banalia-              7
Opala-Basoko-Bafwasende-
Yahuma
Kivu              Maniema            Kabambare-Kasongo-Kibombo-          7
Kindu-Lubutu-Langi-Punia
Shaba             Tanganyka         Kalemie-Moba-Kabalo-                 6
Kongolo-Nyunzu-Manono
Kasai Occ.        Lulua             Dibaya-Luiza-Demba-Kazumba-          5
Dimbelenge
Kasai Or.         Sankuru           Kole-Lodja-Lomela-Lubefu-            6
Katako Kombe-Luasambo
Kinshasa                             Ngafula                             1
Total                49
1.15         OR's program includes the equipment necessary for 100 zones
(essentially pick-up trucksand teleicommunication equipment) as well as ope-
rating expenditures. Cost estimates are US$6.0 million.
1.16      Although close monitoring and supervision of manual maintenance
Is essential for its success and the nomination of zone engineers would be
helpful in achieving this objective, OR should proceed cautiously as expe-
rience is gained and adequate funding (especially from the Ministry of
Agriculture) is increased.
Other Items
1.17      Personnel costs (US$36.0 million) are projected on the basis of
current costs. They include all items such as medical expenses, schooling
and work related travel. Small investments and miscellaneous expenditures
include mainly all works carried out on buildings, culverts and small civil
works as well as locally purchased supplies and small equipments.   The



- 52 -
Annex 2-10
Page 6 of 21
amount in OR's program is consistent with past approved budgets and could
be somewhat scaled down as done in the past, if local funds became scarse.
Cost estimates are tU$15.0 million.
(e) Gravel/Earth Road Rehabilitation by Contract
1.18           OR's initial 1986-88 highway program also included
rehabilitation by contract of 574 km of gravel/earth road sections of BNI,
RN2, RN4, RN6 and RN8 at a total cost of US$40.0 million. This was
justified by the following reasons:
(i) periodic maintenance of these road sections has been
neglected for a long period of time so that important earth
volumes have to be moved before the draining system and the
wearing course can be restored;
(ii)  hauling distances are important and a mltiple of the
numbers of trucks, allocated to OR's production unit in the
area, would be needed to carry out the job;
(iii) steep grades, silty soils and sand banks require stabilizing
the wearing course with adequate equipment which is not
available;
(*iv) works are important and can be defined technically and
quantitatively in a quite accurate way and, on a competitive
market, can be carried at lesser cost by contractors.
1.19           The road sections are listed in Table 1.4.
Table 1.4 - Gravel/Earth Road Rehabilitation by Contract
Road         Location             Daily traffic            Length
volumes                 km
(veh7day)
RN1    Kananga-Mbuji Mayi             100                   50
RDI/   Hla-Mi a-Mambasa                60                   80
RN2    Beni-Butembo                    50                   50
RN4    Beni-Kasindi                    30                   76
RN8    Mbandaka-Bikoro                 40                   54
RN6    Gemena-Libenge                  20                   50
KN6    Lisala-Bumba                    20                   150
RN6    Rutshuru-Ishasa                 20                   64
Total      574
1.20         Since for lack of engineering studies, cost estimates were
rather unreliable and the economic returns of these works were on average
expected to be lower than on the remaining part of OR's road maintenance
program, this component was deleted from the 1986-88 highway program. It
remains that satisfactory all-year driving conditions will not be achieved
on these roads (especially the two first ones which carry an important
traffic) until a full rehabilitation is done. If additional funds became
available, it would be very well justified to rehabilitate the RN1 and RN4.



- 53 -
Annex 2-10
Page 7 of 21
II. Repaving Progrxm
(a) Description
2.01      OR's program includes the repaving of the following roads:
Table 2.1 - 1986-88 Repaving Program
Daily Traffic
Volumes           Length
Road             Location                 (Veh/day)           (km)
RN 1           Kinshasa-Matadi             550                 180
RN 1           Nsele-Kenge                 150                  40
RN I           Lubumbashi-Likasi           450                  60
RN 1-RN 39     Likasi-Kolvezi              250                 145
RN 38          Likasi-Kambove              300                  23
Total   448
2.02      Repaving work would comprise minor improvements to the existing
alignments, the base course and drainage structures, a surface course of
asphaltic concrete or a double surfacing, widening of pavement and shoul-
ders in some areas, the provision of road signs and safety markings. The
proposed design standards for these roads (Table 2.2) are consistent with
the geometric highway design standards adopted by OR for other paved roads
In Zaire and are appropriate for the terrain, climate and traffic. No pri-
vate land acquisition is needed as the minor improvements of existing
alignments involve only state-owned, non-agricultural land.
Table 2.2 - Design Standards for the Paved Roads
Terrain
Items                  Units     Flat    Rolling   Mountainous
Design speed                         km/h      80         55          40
Horizontal curve: minimum radius      m       190         90          50
Vertical curve:
minimum radius, crest              m     4,000      2,000       1,500
minimum radius, sag                m     3,000     3,000          700
Maximum grade                         Z         4          7           9
Maximum length of grade               m         -        600         400
Pavement width                        m         6.6        6.6         6.0
Shoulder width                        m         2.2        2.2         1.5
Minimum crossfall: pavement           X         2.5        2.5         2.5
shoulders          %         5.0       5.0         5.0
Pavement design load                    13 ton
Source: Office des Routes, July 1984



-~ 54Annex 2-10
Page 8 of 21
(b) Cost estimates
2.03      Cost estimates are based on quantities deduced from OR's prelimi-
nary engineering and unit prices contracted in recent projects in corres-
ponding regions.   The total cost estimate of the repaving program is
US$49.0 million as indicated in Table 2.3.
Table 2.3 - Cost Estimates of the Repaving Program
Roads                            Local        Foreign       Total
-US$ million*-        -
RN1 Kinshasa-Matadi                     5.4          12.6          18.0
RN1 Nsele-Kenge                         1.2           2.8           4.0
RN1 Lubumbashi-Likasi                   1.8           4.2           6.0
RN1-RN39 Likasi-Kolwezi                 5.7          13.3          19.0
RN38 - Likasi-Kambove                  0.6            1.4           2.0
Total                   14.7          34.3          49.0
- in mid-1984 terms
-c) Justification
2.04      Periodic maintenance of Zaire's paved road network of about 2400
km has been neglected for a long period of time and repaving is urgently
needed over a considerable length. About 60Z of the network is older than
15 years, as indicated in Table 2.4.
Table 2.4 - Age of the Paved Road Network
Construction Period                     Length
km      %
1955-1960                        1,000    42
1960-1970                          500    21
1970-1984                          900    37
Total     2,400   100
2.05      Pavement design has been based on light traffic volumes and road
infrastructure generally coksist of:
-    a surface course of asphaltic coacrete (3 to 6 cm) or a double
surfacing (2 to 3 cm)
-   a base course (10 to 20 cm) of laterite, gravel, crushed stone or
selected soil which may or not have been stabilized with cement
or asphalt;



- 55 -                        Annex 2-10
Page 9 of 21
- a subbase course (O to 30 cm) of laterite, gravel, volcanic mate-
rials or selected soils.
Based on a realistic design life of 15 years for the surface course, about
160 km of roads should have been repaved yearly since 1970 to avoidprogres-
sive deterioration.   However in 1980 about 1000 km of roads, built before
1960, had never been repaved.
2.06       In 1980 under the Fourth Highway Project a systematic repaving
program started that continues to be implemented under the Fifth Highway
Project as indicated in Table 2.5.
Table 2.5  -   Status of Implementation of the
1980-85 Repaving Program
Road         Location                 Period         Status       Length
(km)
RN 1      Boma-Matadi                 80 - 83       completed         98
RN 12     Boma-Tshela                 80 - 83       completed        120
RN 37     Lubumbashi-Kipushi          80 - 83       completed         30
RN 1      Kinshasa-Matadi             84 - 85        ongoing          80
RN 37     Lubumbashi-Kipushi          84 - 85        ongoing          40
RN 1      Nbuji Mayi-Mwene Ditu       84 - 85        planned          45
Total         413
2.07      OR's design and research department and laboratory are routinely
monitoring pavemeat behavior and updating the paved roads inventory based
on visual inspection, Benkelman beam deflection measurements, te-eal accumu-
lated traffic data and laboratory analysis of surface courses, base
courses, subbases and soils. The critical deflection (average deflection +
1.3 times the standard deviation) has been determined to be 1.5 mm. It is
on the basis of these measurements as well as economic considerati;cs that
the roads included in OR's repaving program have been selected (Table
2.1).  If no substantial work is performed on these roads in the cowLng
years, they will rapidly deteriorate to a condition somewhat worse than a
good quality earth road. Urgent repaving is therefore needed.
2.08       So far, OR has only carried out the preliminary engineering for
the repaving works included in its 1986-88 program.   Feasibility studies
and detailed engineering still have to be prepared by consultants.  This
will be undertaken under the Fifth Highway Project.   The pavement design
would minimize total road maintenance and user costs.  Final costs may end
up being somewhat different although the average figures should be close to
actual costs of works, presently carried out under the Fifth Highway Pro-
ject. Works would be executed by contract and supervised by consultants.



- 56 -                         Annex 2-10
Page 10 of 21
III. The Bridge Program
(a) Repair and Maintenance of existing bridges
3.01      The bridge inventory includes 2,300 bridges with spans between 4
and 750 m.   Superstructures are in reinforced concrete, steel or wood.
Infrastructures are in reinforced concrete or masonry with only exception-
ally foundations on piles.
3.02      Many bridges are old and need urgent repair and maintenance for
(i) ensuring security for road users; (ii) saving the bridges superstruc-
tures; and (iii) preventing road closure for many months or years. A comr-
plete updating of the bridge inventory is being carried out and a priority
repair and maintenance program has been prepared as follows:
(i) survey of infrastructures below w-ter level by the skin-diving
team of a specialised contractor:   Over the past years all
bridges in Bas Zaire and Shaba and part of the bridges in Kivu
and Haut-Zaire have beea surveyed. This work is to be continued
in Kivu and Haut-Zaire and has to be carried out as well as in
the Equateur, Bandundu and the Kasai regions for a total of about
50 bridges;
(ii) repair of piles and abutments:   The survey has shown already
important erosion and structural damage to the foundations of
several bridges.  Repair includes building a cofferdam or crib-
work and underwater injection of concrete under high pressure.
Four bridges in Bas-Zaire and Shaba have already been repaired by
force account and reinforcement of 3 br3idges in Haut-Zaire is
being carried out. The program includes repair by contract of 15
bridges.   The bridges to  be repaired in the Kivu region are
given .n Table 3.1.
Table 3.1 - Repair of Bridges in the Kivu Region
Location                   Road                 S sn
Rwindi                     RN2                   25
Muhulu                     RN4                   31
Semuliki                   RN4                   64
Ruzizi I                   RN29                  37
Ambwe                      RN31                  53
The 10 other bridges to be repaired will be determined by the
above survey.
(iii) Repair of Bailey and Acrow type steel superstructures.   Many
bridges for a total length of about 10,000 m are Bailey type sim-
ple truss bridges made of easily interchangeable standard ele-
ments.  About 1,600 m are corroded or were damaged by traffic
accidents and would be repaired locally by OR's bridge units.



- 57 -                         Annex 2-10
Page 11 of 21
(iv) Replacement of Algrain type steel superstructures.  Some bridges
with a total length of 900 m have Algrain type steel superstruc-
tures which had not been designed for the current 18T truck traf-
fic and have in some cases been reinforced with concrete beams.
Many trusses however, are corroded and 260 m are proposed to be
replaced by Bailey and Acrow types.
(v) Replacement of bridge decks.   Wooden bridge decks last about 4
years and need frequent replacement which is included in the pro-
gram.  The program also includes 3000 m of steel plate bridge
decks to replace wooden decks when necessary.
(vi) Periodic maintenance of steel superstructures.  All steel bridges
are scheduled to be paiated every four years by OR's bridge
units.   The program provides for 11 sand cleaners (two in the
large regions of Haut Zaire, Kivu and Shaba and one in the other
regions) and locally purchased paint.
3.03        The total cost of the repair and maintenance program is as
follows:
Table 3.2 - Cost Estimates of Bridge Repair and Maintenance
Local     Foreign      Total
-       1S$ million---
(i) Survey of infrastructures in
6 regions at US$20,000/region               0.05       0.07        0.12
'ii) Repair of piles and abutments of
15 bridges at US$175,000/bridge             1.03       1.57        2.60
(Mii)  Repair of steel superstructures             0.06        0.32       0.38
(iv)  Replacement of steel superstructures        0.10       0.55        0.65
(v)  Replacement of bridge decks                 0.17       0.34        0.51
(vi)  Sandcleaners and paint                      0.26       0.15        0.41
1.67       3.00        4.67



- 58 -                         Annex 2-10
Page 12 of 21
(b) Construction of New Bridges
3.04       Gov,ernment's 1980-90 ferry plan provides for the replacement of
44 ferries by bridges. Sofar 13 ferries have been replaced and 5 more are
scheduled to be replaced between 1986 and 1988. The total cost of the con-
struction program is as follows:
Table 3.3 - Cost Estimates of Bridge Construction
Steel
Replac-    Super-    Piles and
Region    Location   Road    Spa   ing ferry  structure Abutments  TOTAL
(a)              ---US$ 1000
Equateur:   Boyase      RN 6    100      3/27        230          360      590
Haut-Z:     Yatolema   RN 7    100       4/10        230          360      590
Kasai Oc.:  Lovua       RN 1     70      7/17        160          360      520
Kasai Or.:  Makole      RN 2    120      8/30        300          450      750
Lomela     RN 7    100      8/2          220         360       580
1,140       1,890    3,030
_m                   -
The above costs are no. however based on detailed engineering studies and
should therefore be considered only as orders of magnitude.
(c) Total Cost and Economic Justification
3.05       The total cost estimate of the Bridge Program is US$8.0 million,
(local cost US$3.1 million and foreign cost US$4.9 million) as indicated in
Table 3.4.
Table 3.4 - Cost Estimates of Bridge Program
Local        Foreign        Total
-US$ million-
1. Repair and maintenance               1.67          3.00           4.67
2. Construction of 5 bridges
- studies      0.30            0            0.30
- works        1.14          1.89           3.03
3.11         4.89           8.00
3.06       It would be difficult to carry out an economic analysis for the
periodic maintenance of existing bridges.   There is no statistical basis
for that. However, given the condition of some bridges, the likelihood of
major incidents is high and very costly reconstruction would be needed if
appropriate repairs are not dote. There is therefore a good economic jus-
tification for this sub-component. An economic analysis has been carried



- c;Q -
Annex 2-10
Page 13 of 21
out for the construction of new bridges on the basis of the above prelimi-
nary costs (para. 3.04) and the avoided costs of operating a ferry on the
same site. OR found the following ERRs:
Bridge          Traffic         ERR
km/day
Boyase             12           17Z
Yatolema           11           13Z
Lovua             +20          +20Z
Makole             10            llZ
Lomela              8           lOZ
The construction of the above five bridges appears Justified although it
should probably have a lesser priority in OR's comprehensive highway
program.



- 60 -                         Annex 2-10
Page 14 of 21
IV. Ferry Progra
4.01      Virtually the entire country forms the drainage basin of the
Zaire River whose triDutaries crisscross Zaire. These numerous water
courses require a system of ferries and ferry crossings throughout the
country where bridges are not economicaliy justified. Many important road
links are dependent on ferries, which are a vital and integral part of the
road network. The ferry fleet consists of 228 units with a renewal value
of US$60 million (see Chapter II, para 2.20). During 1983 availability of
ferries on national, main and secondary regional roads has been respective-
ly 88%, 79% and 67%, which is very satisfactory given the age of the fleet.
4.02      Government's 1980-1990 ferry plan includes the construction of
121 new ferries, replacing all ferries older than 25 years and reopening 25
ferry crossings. The implementation of this plan has been very successful
sofar: 28 new ferries have become operational and construction of 35 addi-
tional ferries is under way.
4.03      The 1986-88 ferry program would continue the inplementation of
the 1980-90 ferry plan. It includes renewal of 24 ferries and construction
of 10 access ramps as shown in Tables 4.1 and 4.2. It also includes a
workshop-vessel.
Table 4.1 - Renewal of 24 Ferries
Ferry No.     Location      Road         Lake or River           Type
2/18         Bwana-Mut.      RRI         Kwenge             OR-12-20T-Winch
2/22         Kabanga         RR2         Lutshima           OR-12-20T-Winch
3/20         Basankusu       RN          Maringa            OR-12-20T-Motor
3/29         Mongobo         RR2          Pongo II          OR-12-20T-Winch
3/32         Bendere         RR2         Esobe              OR-12-20T-Winch
3/37         Boyeka          RR2         Ruki               OR-12-20T-Motor
4/19         Yangambi        RRI         Zaire              OR-12-20T-Motor
4/24         Basoa           RR1         Lulu               OR-12-20T-Motor
4/68         Aosane          RR2         Nova               OR-12-20T-Winch
4/74         Nagero          RR1          Dungu             OR-12-20T-Winch
4/81         Luale           RRI         Lovua              OR-12-20T-Winch
5/6          Kimbombo        RR1          Zaire             OR-12-20T-Motor
5/14         Mintoko         RR2         Elila              OR-12-20T-Winch
6/6          Vundabiabo      RR2         Lualaba            OR-12-20T-Winch
6/20         Kipaila         RRI         Luvua              OR-12-20T-Motor
7/2          Lodi            RR1          Lubembe           OR-12-20T-Motor
7/20         Mwena-Muyedi   RR2          Tshikapa           OR-12-20T-Winch
7/25         Kafuenu         RRi          Longushimu        OR-12-20T-Winch
7/28         Mudiala         RR]         Tshimumbe          OR-12-20T-Winch
7/30         Shampulete      RRl         Lubembe            OR-12-20T-Winch
7/49         Mundeke         RR2         Lovua              OR-12-20T-Winch
8/4          Kole            RU           Lueka             OR-12-20T-Winch
8/7          Wungu           RR2         Lukenie            OR-12-20T-Winch
8/31         Ngolole         RR2          Lomami            OR-12-20T-Winch



- 6.1-
- 6i                      Annex 2-10
Page 15 of 21
Table 4.2 - Construction of 10 Access Ramps for 35T Ferries
Ferry No.        Location              Road                   River
2/67           Pinanga               RN 9                   Kasai
2/71           Kutu                   RN 9                  Lukenie
8/13           Lusambo               RN 42                  Sankuru
8/5            Bena-Dibele            RN 7                  Sankuru
6/22           Kabwe                 RN 33                  Lualaba
3/2            Bolomba               RN 22                  Ikelemba
3/20           Basankusu             RN 22                  Maringa
4/11           Yate                   RN 7                  Lomami
4/33           Aketi                 RN 6                   Itimbiri
4/39           Ndu                    RN 4                  Homu
4.04       Cost estimates are based on current contracts and are therefore
reliable. The total cost of the ferry program would be US$ 6.5 million as
indicated in Table 4.3
Table 4.3 - Cost Estimates of Ferry Program
Local       Foreign      Total
US$ million
Renewal of 24 Ferries Type OR                    1.2           2.3          3.5
Design and Construction of 10 Access Ramps       2.1-          0.9          3.0
Workshop vessel                                   -            0.5          0.5
3.3          3.7          7.0
4.05       OR has analyzed the economic justification of its ferry program
on the basis of conservative values of average traffic and avoided de-
tours. Operating costs have been based on current experience. The result-
ing economic rate of return is 42X.
4.06      Because of resource constraints, OR has deleted from its 1986-88
program  the replacement  of  10 larger ferries.   These ferries are the
following:



- 62 -                         Annex 2-10
Page 16 of 21
Table 4.4 - Additional 10 ferries to be renewed
Ferry No.     Location      Road        Lake or River           Tye
2/73-1       Inongo          RN          Hai-Ndombe         FRG-50T-Motor
2/73-2       Inongo          RN          Mai-Ndombe         FRG-50T-Hotor
1/2          Luozi           RR1         Zaire              FRG-35T-Motor
1/3          Mpioka          RN          Zaire              FRG-35T-Motor
2/61         Bagata          RN          Kwilu              FRG-35T-Motor
2/63         Budjala         RRl         Kwilu              FRG-35T-Motor
2/67         Pinanga         RN          Kasai              FRG-35T-Motor
2/71         Kutu            RN          Lukenie            FRG-35T-Motor
4/11         Yate            RN          Lomami             FRG-35T-Motor
4/38         Bondo           RN          Uele               FRG-35T-Motor
Since the existing ferries on these sites are close to or have exceeded
their service life, there is a good justification to proceed rapidly with
their replacement. This could be a priority should additional funds become
available.



- 63 -                        Annex 2-10
Page 17 of 21
V. Paved Road Construction
5.01        Government's long term investment program includez3 paving of
about  2,600 km of  roads  with  traffic volu as  potentially  above  170
vehicles/day. The current length of paved road network is about 2,400 km
and construction works are currently  being carried out on:   (i) RN3
(Kisangani-Bukavu), Section Lubutu-Walikale, 195 km under European Develop-
ment Fund (EDF), bilateral West German (KFW) and African Development Bank
(AfDB) financing; (ii) RN1 (Kinshasa-Lubumbashi), Section Kikwit-Batshamba,
88 km under EDF financing; and RN6 (Akula-Gemena), several sections total-
ling 15 km, under EDF financing.  These financing were secured in i980
(Fifth EDF Program), in 1983 (West German bilateral agreement) and in 1984
(AfDB).
5.02       The 1986-88 highway program only includes continuation of these
projects.  There would not be any new construction project.  The amount
that OR estimates to be disbursed between 1986 and 1988 on the ongoing
works is US$75.0 million of which US$50.0 would be paid in foreign exchange
and US$25.0 in local currency. EDF would contribute US$20.0 million equi-
valent, West Germany US$12.0 million equivalent and AfDB US$18.0 million
equivaleat.
5.03       The RN3 road links the isolated Kivu region to the river port of
Kisaugani.   Af :er completion of the ongoIng works (probably later than
1988) only 75 km would remained unpaved.  Completion of this road has been
a major goal for Zaire for a long time. There are good long term socio-
economic reasons for this although the project ERR is only about 14Z
according to ORs calculations. The ongoing works on the RNI road will im-
prove access to an area which has become a major provider of agriculture
products to Kinshasa. Ongoing works on the 15 km sections of the RN6 roac
will improve communications between the densely populated Northern Equateur
sub-region and the Zaire River.  Although works on the two above roads have
been planned for several years and are now in process, there is some doubt
on their economic justification. The EDF has recently accepted to pay the
full cost (local and foreign) of the two projects. The scope of work will
consequently be restricted to what can be paid by available EDF funds.



- 64 -                         Annex 2-10
Page 18 of 21
VI. Technical Assistance, Studies and Office Equipment
(a) Description
6.01      OR's program includes the following technical assistance and coa-
sulting services:
(i) strengthening OR's administrative and operational capacity by
permanent experts at key positions on OR's staff and short-term
expert missions; 1/
(ii) preparation and implementation of a cost accounting system and a
management information system;
(iii) installation of computers in OR's  --tral department and in the
regions and creation of the required data processing software;
(iv) implementation of the program's telecommunication component;
(v) specific studies concerning the use of solar energy, the reorga-
aiz3tion of OR's General Services Departmemt, the location of
quarries and the road inventory system.
6.02      The following office equipment is also included:
Ci) a mini-computer for OR's central department, microcomputers for
each region and the associated hardware;
(ii) a comprehensive telecommunmication improvement program including
especially 30 telexes and associated equipment, 6 Intercom VHF/FM
radio networks with 6 fixed and 60 mobile transmitter-receivers
and other equipment to improve the radio-telephone system.
(iii) miscellaneous equipment such as xerox machines, typewriters, etc.
(b) Cost Estimates
6.03       The tetal cost of the technical assistance, studies and office
equipment program is US$11.1 million as indicated in Table 6.1:
_/ Experts that are provided to OR under ongoing
bilateral assistance are not included.



- 65 -                        Annex 2-10
Page 19 of 21
Table 6.1 - Cost estimates of Technical Assistance, Studies
and Office Equipment
Local     Foreign     Total
US$ million
Technical Assistance                            -         4.0         4.0
Consultants for cost-accounting and
management information systems              0.6        0.7        1.3
Computerization
- consultants                                0.4        0.5         0.9
- computers                                  0.5        0.5         1.0
Telecommunications
- consultants                                0.1        0.2        0.3
- equipment                                  0.3        0.9         1.2
Specific Studies                               0.8        0.7         1.5
Other Office Equipment                         0.9         -         0.9
3.6        7.5       11.1
Cc) Justification
6.04        The program has been reviewed by IDA and found on the whole
acceptable. It will for the most part be included in the Bank's financed
project.



- 66 -                         Annex 2-10
Page 20 of 21
VII. Ixtra
(a) Description
7.01        The main features of OR's training program are described in
para.2.17 of the main text.  It includes the following:
(i) technical assistance to OR's central department  and to five
training centers;
(ii) short-term missions concerning ma-agement of civil works, finan-
cial management-, computer use, evaluation of training and miscel-
laneous assignments;
(iii) improvement to the training centers including equipment (mainly
for workshops) asd teaching materials;
(iv) fellowships for training period outside Zaire;
(v) operating expenditures (including salaries of Zairian staff).
(b) Cost Estimates
7.02      The total cost of the training program is about US$13.5 million
as indicated in Table 7.1:
7.1 - Cost Estimates of Training Program
Local     Foreign    Total
-U -Y$  mllionr----
Technical Assistance                     -          2.50       2.50
Short term missions                      -         0.72        0.72
Improvement to training centers         1.44        1.28       2.72
Fellowships                             0.19        1.50       1.69
Operating expenditures                  5.83        -          5.83
7.46       6.00      13.46
-
(c) Justification
7.03         The above program  has been reviewed by IDA and found well
justified. Operating expenditures may be overstated. Staff still needs to
be selected for the fellowships sub-component but the overall number was
judged acceptable.



- 67 -
Annex 2.10
Page 21 of 21
VIII. Financing of OR'S 1986-88 Comprehensive Highway Program
8.01          As a result of a co-financing meeting held in Paris on March 4,
1985, OR proposed a financing plan for its 1986-88 highway progran without
taking into account contingencies. This plan, to which contingencies have
been added, is detailed below in Table &.1  It is based on-tlhe assurances
or reasonable estimates provided by donors concerning their participation
and can be considered as realistic.
Table 8.1 - Fnancing Plan of  .'s 1986-88 InayW Pr_rA
Total                -Ag-ierd L--. .
CWat  Zaire         _
ZW  | AAfDB    PrO   France  USAID i Japan   U.K.   IDO   Total
(±) Routine and Pcriodic Maintemance          _
Persomnel                      36.0   36.0
gquipment renevl               50.0   15.0    6.0             2.1    5.0       3.0    4.0            14.9   35.0
Spare parts for
equip ent                23.0    6.0    1.0              1.0    1.0      1.0    1.0            12.0   17.0
ferrfe.                   5.0    0.9                     2.1                                    2.0    4.1
Fuel and lubricant.            24.0   24.0
Materials                       4.0    3.0                                                           1.0    1.0
Nnn'al maintenance              5.0    3.0                            2.0                             1.0    3.0
Smell invescmnt.               15.0   15.0
(ii) Repaving                        49.0   14.7   15.4    18.9                                                   34.3
(iii) Bridge Program                   8.0    3.0                            0.85                    1.15   3.0    5.0
(iv) Ferry progrm                     7.0    3.3                     2.3    0.5                             0.9    3.7
fv) Technical asaLstance            11.1    3.6                            0.8                             6.71l  7J5
(vi) Trainlng                        13.5    7.5    0.5       1.5   1.0    0.5       1.0                    1.S   6.0
hue Coat                      251.6  135.0   22.9    20.4   8.5   10.65    5.0    5.0    1.15  43.0  116.6
Contingencles                  48.2   24.3    4.8       4.1   1.4             0.8                   12.0   23.9
Subtotal I                    299.8  159.3   27.7    24.5   9.9   10.65    5.8    5.8    1.15   55.0  140.5
(vif) Ome road constucction
Kliangani-Bukav                55.0   25.0             18.0  12.0                                           30
Akul.-Cemea                    10.0           10.0                                                          10.0
Kikwit- thbmba                 10.0    _      10.0                                                          10.0
Sub-total I r                  75.0   25.0   20.0    18.0  12.0                                             50.0
Tota:                         374.8  14.3   47.7    42.5  21.9   10.65    5.8    5.8    1.15  55.0  190.5
1/ Only USS5.9 million haa been retained In IDA'e financed Project.



- 68 -
Annex 2.11
Page 1 of 4
ZARn
Silxth Hilgway Project
Staff Apprasald Report
Economic Crlteria for the Analysis of Hihway Sub-sector Projects
A. Introduction
1.        OR should undertake a specific economic analysis for any invest-
ment and sub-program listed below which estimated cost is higher than US$
500,000:
(i) new road construction;
(ii) strengthening or repaving of paved roads;
(iii) improvement of gravel/earth roads;
(iv) maintenance programs;
Cv) construction or improvement of bridges, and
(vi) construction or improvement of ferries.
2.        For each investment or sub-program as defined above, several
technical alternatives should be developed and tested. In each case, a
sensitivity analysis should be performed to ascertain the effect on the
internal economic rate of return (ERR) of changes in the values of the main
parameters. A specific analysis should also show that the additional
maintenance required for any new investment or sub-program would not exceed
the foreseeable maintenance capabilities of OR.
3.        In all cases, an optimal economic solution should be sought and,
unless otherwise agreed with IDA, any investment on sub-program with an ERR
below 15% should not be accepted.
B. Main Economic Benefits to be Considered
5.        In general, the only benefits to be considered should be:
(i) vehicle operating cost savings and whenever appropriate, time
savings, and



- 69 -
Annex 2.11
Page 2 of 4
(ii) road maintenance cost savings.
6.        For new roads penetrating undevelopped areas, a producer surplus
approach should be used. Concerning bridges and ferries, savings ou the
cost of alternative routes should be the main benefits although in some
cases the loss of net value added in the -without project- case might be
considered.
7.        In general, and especially for generated traffic, the analysis
should show that the economic benefits are not double-counted and that only
the net value added (for example after deduction, if that is the case, of
all complementary investments for agriculture production) is considered.
C.        Main Parameters to Be Used
8.        Traffic:  reasonable traffic projections should be established on
the basis of (i) precise counts of actual traffic (in volume and
composition), and (ii) a realistic growth rate justified by experience, and
by such factors as the growth of GNP, the development of economic
activities in the investment or sub-program's zone of influence and an
increase in the share of road transport at the expense of other
transport modes.
9.        Vehicle Operating Costs:  estimates of economic vehicle operating
cost savings should be calculated to the extent possible on the basis of
objective measures of road quality and resulting conditions of vehicle
utilization, such as developed in the Bank's Highway Design Model; these
estimates should be in line with known estimates for other countries with
economic and geographic conditions similar to those of Zaire.
10.       Transport Time Values:  savings in transport time should only be
applied to the passengers of vehicles that travel for work-related
purposes. This should be done only on the basis of adequate surveys. In
principle, the unit value of time savings should not exceed the average
income per unit of time of passengers.
11.       Investment or Sub-program Costs:  in general, all costs should be
considered, including the costs of studies and work supervision. All costs
should be net of taxes and duties.
12.       Shadow Prices:  in general, the analysis would not use shadow
prices unless good supporting data are available. A minimum of 15 Z should
be used, if necessary, for the opportunity cost of capital.



- 70 -
Annex 2.11
Page 3 of 4
D.   Summary Project Data Sheet
(i) Identification 1/
- Project origin
- Sub-sector
- Priority order
- Nature of project
- Location
- Project cost
- Expected external financing
- Project length of time
- Expected starting date
- Government department
- Implementation agency
(ii) Project Descriptioa
- Objectives
- Technical description
- Foreign and local costs
- Estimated schedule of disbursements
(iii) Project Justification
(a) Traffic (vehicles per day):
Cars    Buses    Pick-up    Trucks    Tractor-    Total
trucks                Trailers
.Base year (19..)   -
. Year of project
completion (19..)  -
. % generated
traffic                  -
average growth per year:          X
(b)  Vehicule operating costs (Zaire/km - base year):
Cars    Buses    Pick-up    Trucks    Tractor-    Total
Trucks                Trailers
-With Project--
Without Project"
1/ These items are standard in current project data sheets in Zaire.



- 71 -
Annex 2.11
Page 4 of 4
(c) Road maintenance costs (Zaire/km - base year):
"With Project"       :
"Without Project"   :
(d) Net benefits
For the central scenario and each sensitivity test:
Year      Benefits                    Costs       Net Benefits
Vehicule opera-    other
ting costs
19..
19..-
(etc)
Ce) Summary table
Central            Sensitivity Scenarios
Scenario           1   2   3   etc
P Present value of
net benefits
Benefits/cost ratio
*    ERR



- 72 -
Annex 3-1
ZAIRE
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
OR's 1986-88 Objectives for Maintenance by Force Account
Maintenance Activity          Unit                  Outputs/year
1986         1987          1988
Paved road maintenance            m2       110,000       116,000       122,000
Grading                            km       40,000        49,000        52,000
Manual Maintenance 1,              km       13,000        14,000        15,000
Culvert Maintenance                n         6,600         6,900         7,200
Bridge Maintenance                m          8,100         8,400         8,800
Regravelling                      m3       830,000       870,000       920,000
Rehabilitation (1,000 m3/km)      km         2,600         2,750         2,900
I/ Manual Maintenance is to a large extent (2/3) carried out by contract.



ZAIRE
Sixth Highay Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Regional Distrihbtion of OR's 1986 Obectives for Maintenane by Force Acnt 1/
RPion                                                         M la j o r  A c t i v i t y
Paved Road          Gra            Verual Iint.  /    (hlvert Malnt.    Bridge Malnit.        R                Rehabilitation
Workirg            Woring         t  1orkirg  Critput Wbrking  Qtpt   brkir   output Ibrkirg t                   Wo      
Units              U nidts    Ian    Units      km        U                            m       Units     mm unlts          m
Bas-Zaire      6      31,400       4      3,710      3       1,000       3         600      3         750     1      23,800      6     283,500
Bandundu       3      17,500       7      6,534      3       2,000       3         250      3        800      2      30,400     6      181,600
Equateur       0        -          7      5,756      4       2,000       4       2,500      4        8D0      8    215,000      8      427,000
Hbut-Zaire     1       1,700       6      4,562      4       2,000       5       1,200      5       2,000     8    139,500      8      282,000
KIvu           3       8,200      8       7,221      5       2,000       4         250      4       1,400     8    235,900      9      527,400
5hsba          4      33,800      4       3,561      4       2,000       4       1,200      4       1,100     4    116,300      8      462,000
Kasai          1       2,300       4      3,957      2       1,000       2         250      2       1,000     3      69,100     4      189,000
Kasai OR.      1       3,500       4      3,710      2       1,000       2         300      2        250      -        -        4      183,300
Kinshasa       1      11,600       1        989      1         100       0          28      1         15      -        -         I      64,200
Total         20    110,000       45     40,000    28       13,100      27       6,578    28        8,115    34    830,000    54   2,600,000
-  m         -                  -        -~~,_     =          =                  _       _        -_       -
1/ Calculations are based on equiprent available at appraisal, nunber of wrldng dys and average hauling distances for each region.
2/ Mnual umiinteiuace is to a large extent carried out by contract.
x
t'



- 74 -
Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 3
ZAIRE
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Maintenance Objectives for OR's Working Units
A.     Routine Maintenance of Paved Roads
1. Repair of potholes, patching, shoulder and drainage maintenance
Equipment:     1 Truck 7T
1 Dumper 500 1
1 Concrete mixer 3001
1 Spreader
1 Vibrating roller
1 Tractor with rotocutter
Personnel:     18:  1 Engineer, 1 mechanic, 5 operators and
11 unskilled workers
Output/day:         50 m2 of patching or repair of potholes
at US$ 28/m2
B.     Routine Maintenance of Gravel/Earth Roads
2. Grading: Reshaping the wearink; course, the shoulders and the
ditches without adding materials.
Equipment:     3  Graders
1 Wheelloader
1 Truck 7T
1 Tanktruck (diesel)
1 Tanktruck (water)
1 Workshop pick-up
1 Trailer
Personnel:     30:  1 engineer, 2 mechanics, 6 operators
and 21 unskilled workers.
Output/day:         9km at US$ 300/km
3.  Manual Maintenance:  It includes all labor intensive operations
and replaces eventually the grading.
Equipment:     1  pick up
2 motorcycles
Personnel:     49:  1 engineer, 3 foremen, 45 unskilled
workers
Cost:          US$ 80/km year on national roads and main
regional roads. US$ 47/km year on secondary
regional roads.



Annex 3.3
- 75 -                          Page 2 of 3
Manual maintenance is only to a small extent carried out by OR's
personnel. Contracts are awarded to private enterprises, agencies and
economic operators.
4. Culvert Maintenance
Clearing, repairing and replacing culverts
Equipment:     1 Truck
Personnel:     19:  2 foremen, 1 driver and 16 unskilled
workers
Density of culverts in Zaire is about 1 culvert/km
Output/day:    1 Culvert
5.  Bridge Maintenance
Minor repairs to girders, decks and abutments and maintenance of
access ramps.
Equipment:     2 Dumptrucks
I Truck with backhoe
1 Pick-up
I Agriculture tractor with trailer
2 Concrete mixers
1 Compressor -
I Dumper
Personnel:     28:  1 engineer, 2 foremen, 5 operators
and 20 unskilled workers
Output/day     10 m
C.     Periodic Maintenance of Gravel-Earth Roads
6. Regravelling (Point a temps)
Filling up locally with selected materials in quantities less
than 1 m3/m and reshaping the wearing course, the shoulders and
the ditches.
Equipment:     1 Crawler loader
1 Grader
2 Dump trucks 12T or 4 dumptrucks 7-8T
1 Compactor
1 Tanktruck (gas oil)
1 Tanktruck (water)
1 Service truck
1 Trailer
Personnel:     15:  1 engineer, 2 mechanics, 6 operators
and 6 unskilled workers
Output/day:    150 m3 at US$12/m3



Annex 3.3
- 76-                           Page 3 of 3
7. Rehabilitation
Filling up systematically with selected materials in quantities
of about 1 m3/m and reshaping the wearing course, the shoulders
and the the ditches.
Equipment:      1 Bulldozer
1 Crawler loader
1 Wheelloader
1 Grader
1 Rubber tired roller
1 Tractor with trailer
4 12T dumptrucks or 8 7-8T dumptrucks
1 Pump
I Tanktruck (gas oil)
1 Tanktruck (water)
I Service truck
2 Trailers
Personnel:     35:  2 engineers, 5 mechanics, 16 operators
and 12 unskilled workers
Output/day:    300 m3 for an average hauling distance of
10 km, one way, or 300 m of road at US$
12,000/km
Rehabilitation with earth moving in quantities largely superior
to 1 m3/m is considered as road reconstruction. This operation
necessitates equipment exceeding OR's operational capacity and
would be carried out by contractors.
Note:
The proposed objectives for each maintenance activity assume
complete availability of equipment and resources. Outputs and costs have
been estimated by OR and the appraisal mission on the basis of past
experience with well organized and trained working units and will be
updated during project execution. The proposed program intends to replace
systematically worn out equipment and keep operational the remaining
equipment. Additional training of personnel at all levels will also be
provided.



- 77 -
Annex 3.4
Psaoe 1 of 2
ZAIRE
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
OR's 1985-88 Training Plan
Type of Training                    Staff to be         Man-months
Trained
A. Civil Works Techniques
High level                                     80                 120
Supervisors                                   120                 3(J
Manual maintenance                             100                4'JO
Newly recruited eugineers                       60               .'80
Other                                          70                 105
430              14165
B.  Mechanical Mainten-ance (civil works)
Workshop heads                                  35                 70
Mechanics                                      316                800
Electricians                                   20                  60
Welders                                         16                 64
Machine tool operators                          45                180
New equipment                                  20                  80
452              1,254
C.  Operators
Trucks/small vehicles                         400                 400
Heavy equipment                               200                 600
Polyvalent operator                            48                 240
New equipment                                  60                  90
708              1,330
D.  Ferry Operations and Maintenance
Operators                                      48                 576
Ferry maintenance men                          48                 192
Shipyard mechanics                             50                 150
Other                                          40                  80
186                998



-78 -
Annex 3.4
Page 2 of 2
E. Management
Administration                                 30                  60
Finance                                        90                 180
Stocks                                         20                  40
Equipment                                      20                  40
Programming                                   100                 100
260                420
F. Others
Draftsmen/Store issuers                        76                 220
Secretary                                      40                 160
Computer                                       60                 180
Pedagogy                                       30                  30
Methods - organization                         12                  24
Wcrks supervision                              15                  30
233                644
2=6 ,_
2,269              5,811



- 79 -
- Annex 3.5
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
Staff Appraisal Report
Sixth Highway Project
Quarterly Progress Reports
A. Indicators for Maintenance Program by Force Account
1.        Serviceability of the network, as measured by average travel
speed. Ratings (good, fair or poor) will be represented on regional maps.
2.        Civil works equipment availability rates.  The following
categories will be considered:  bulldozers, loaders, graders, compactors,
12 T dumptrucks, 8T dumptrucks, other trucks.
3.        Civil works equipment utilization rates.  The following
categories will be considered:  bulldozers, loaders, graders, compactors,
12 T dumptrucks, 8T dumptrucks, other trucks.
4.        Ferries availability rates.
5.        Stocks of spare parts and materials; stock at beginning of
period, supplies, stock at end of period.
6.        Fuel stocks by regions; stock at beginning of period, supplies,
stock at end of period.
7.        Maintenances outputs by OR's units as related to the agreed
objectives. The information will be given for the production units and
summarized for the regions and the country.
The following items will be taken into consideration:
- paved road eoutine maintenance (m2);
- grading of gravel-eartb roads (km);
- manual maintenance of gravel/earth roads (km);
- culvert maintenance (units);
- bridge maintenance (m);
- gravel/earth roads regravelling (m3 and km);
- gravel/earth road rehabilitation (m3 and km)
B. Indicators for civil works by contract
1.        General information:  including the following:
- t'ie physical progress accomplished during the reporting period;
- actual or expected deviations from the works implementation schedule;
- actual or expected difficulties or delays and their effects on the
implementation schedule, and the steps planned or taken to overcome the
difficulties and avoid further delay;
- expected changes in the completion date of the works;



- 80 -                        Annex 3.5
Page 2 of 2
2.        A bar-type progress chart, based on the works implementation
schedule showing the progress in each component.
3.        A financial statement set out in tabular form aud indicating for
all major components:
- original estimated costs;
- revised costs, if appropriate;
- actual expenditures;
- projected expenditures; and
- actual and projected withdrawals from the Credit Account.
C. Indicators for manual maintenance by contract
- name of contractors
- location and lengths of the networks to be maintained
- amount of contracts
- performances of the contractors
D. Indicators for training program
- number of trainees;
- average length of training;
- final tests and results obtained by trainees.
The information will be provided for all training sessions, seminars and
fellowships programs.
E. Summary Report
A summary report to be submitted no later than one calender month
after the end of the quarter shall accompany the above indicators and
include:
(i) progress made in implementation of Governments 1986-88 Road
Maintenazce and Investments Progran and in particular those
components that facilitate implementation of the project.
(ii)  financial situation of OR (recurrent budget, investment budget,
road fund and balance).
(iii) information regarding manpower in the departments and regional
offices units and workshops and changes in key management
appointments.
(iv)  key information on the project's implementation which is not
provided by the indicators.
(v) explanatory notes if the targets set up under the project are not
beiag met and a description of the corrective measures which have
been taken or which are being prepared.
(vi) the status of compliance with Credit Agreement covenants.
The first such report shall cover the quarter ending March 1986.



- 81 -
Annex 4.1
ZAIRE
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Vehicle Operating Costs 1/
(zaire/ki)
Paved Roads             Gravel/Earth Roads
Category 2/
]7 ---Er        llI                II III
Light vehicle 3/          13.2   16.0   21.6          16.0   22.0  32.8
Heavy vehicle '/          24.8    30.4    38.0        34.8    47.6   70.4
1/ Source: Offices des Routes on the basis of actual economic costs in
Zaire and of gravel/earth road conditions as defined in a 1982 analysis
of road maintenance strategies. Costs are expressed in January 1, 1985
terms. The exchange rate is US$1   40 Z.
2/ Category I corresponds to a road in good condition; Category II to a
road in average/poor condition; category III to a road in very bad
condition.
3/ Light vehicle: van/four-wheel drive wagon
Heavy vehicle: 8 T truck



- 82 -                       Annex 4.2
ZAIRE
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Routine and Periodic Maintenance of Gravel/Earth Roads
Road condition in  with  and 'without project" cases
Road length per category of road condition
Year                              With Project              Without Project
I       II       III        I      II       II
A. National Roads
1984                       8,000    10,000      0     8,000    10,000    0
1985                       9,350     8,650      0      9,350     8,650    0
1986                      10,750      7,250     0     9,000      9,00(1    0
1987                      12,800      5,200     0      8,000    10,000    0
1988                      14,900     3,100      0     7,000    11,000    0
1989                      17,000      1,000     0      6,000    12,000    0
1990                      17,000      1,000     0     6,000    12,000    0
1991                      17,000      1,000     0      6,000    12,000    0
1992                      17,000      1,000     0     6,000    12,000    0
1993                      17,000      1,000     0     6,000    12,000    0
1994                      17,000      1,000     0     4,000    14,000    0
1995                      17,000      1,000     0     2,000    16,000    0
1996                      17,000      1,000     0          0    18,000    0
B. Main Regional Roads
1984                         0      10,000   10,000      0      10,000   10,000
1985                         0       11,550    8,450      0     11,550    8,450
1986                         0      13,100    6,900       0     10,400    9,600
1987                         0       15,400    4,60C      0      6,950   13,050
1988                         0      17,700    2,300       0      3,500   16,500
1989                         0      20,000         0      0          0   20,000
1990                         0      20,000         0     0           0   20,000
1991                         0      20,000         0      0          0   20,000
1992                         0      20,000         0      0          0   20,000
1993                         0      20,000         0      0          0   20,000
1994                         0      20,000         0      0          0   20,000
1995                         0       20,000        0      0          0   20,000
1996                         0      20,000         0      0          0   20,000
Source:  Appraisal mission estimates



- 83 -
Annex 4.3
ZAIRE
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Routine and Periodic Maintenance of Gravel/Earth Roads
Costs and Benefits Streams
Costs               Costs            Net       Total Project    Net Project
Year       With P *ect         Without Project       Costs        Benefits         Benefits
Capital Operating Capital Operating
1986      i 048      1,124       100        544      1,528             272           -1,256
1987        828      1,124       100        488       1,364           -811             -553
1988        928      1,124        20        432      1,600           1,389             -211
1989        388      1,124       468        376        668          2,003             1,335
1990        500      1,124       428        376        820          2,064             1,244
1991        580      1,124       308        376        820          2,125             1,305
1992      1,015      1,124       100        376       1,664         2,187               523
1993        468      1,124        20        376       1,196         2,255             1,059
1994        468      1,124        20        376       1,196         2,547             1,351
1995        100      1,124       120        376        728          2,854             2,126
1996         50        562        10        188        414           1,592            1,178
1/    -1,980          -      -632         -      -1,348              -            1,348
_    2/               _                               -          6,000            6,000
1/  Residual value of capital expenditures by mid 1996 on the basis of the follow'ng.service
lives: civil work equipment: 10 years; trucks: 6 years; light vehicles: 4 years; buildings
and civil works: 15 years.
2/  Residual value of work done under the limited assumption that it would mainly consist of 15
million i"3 rehabilitation work valued conservatively at 400 Z/m3.



ZAIRE
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Economic Analysis of OR's Road Repaving Program
Mai n A     tions
Value of Parameters per Road Section
Parameters                                           (1)        (2)        (3)       (4)         (5)
Mat/      Lub/       Lik/       Nse/       Lik/
Kin       Lik        Kol        Ken        Kam
Traffic estiwates (1985) (veh/day)                             550        450        250       200         300
% small/heavy vehicles                                        40/60      40/60     50/50      25/75       50/50
"With project"
Estimated cost/km (US$'000)                                  96        105       1451/       96         105
Service life of pavement (years)                             10         13         15        15          15
"Without project"
Frequency of periodic maintenance (period in years)           4          5          6         6           6
Annual cost of routine maintenance ($/km)                   900        900       900        900         900               .
The road sections are as follows: (1) Matadi-Kinshasa; (2) Lubumbashi-Likasi; (3) Likasi-Kolwezi;
(4) Nsele-Kenge; (5) Likasi-Kambove;
Additional hypotheses are as follows:
(i) Costs (including vehicle operating costs) higher by 10% outside the broad Kinshasa area.
(ii) All worka completed in one year.
(iii) Costs of routine maintenance in "with project" case: from US$0 to 2,500/km from first year
after project to last before resurfacing. Cost of new pavement: US$40,000/km.
(iv) Costs of rehabiW.itation in "without project" case:  US$15,000/km except Likasi-Kolwezi road
US$50,000/km; cost of periodic maintenance:  US$15,000/km.
(v) All prices in January 1985 terms.
1/ The present rc.ad is only 3 m wide.



- 85 -
Annex 4.5
Page 1 of 3
Sixth Highway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Repaving of Paved Roads
Costs and Benefits Streams
(1) Matadi-Kinshasa Road
Year        -With Project- "Without Project'    Project             Net
Costs             Costs            Benefits      Benefits
oi/             3.84               0.60              0.57          -2.67
17-             0.00              0.04               1.18           1.22
2               0.02               0.04              1.21           1.23
3               0.03               0.04              1.25           1.26
4               0.04               0.60              1.29           1.85
5               0.05               0.04              1.33           1.32
6               0.06               0.04              1.37           1.35
7               0.08               0.04              1.41           1.37
8               0.09               0.60              1.45           1.96
9               0.10               0.04              1.49           1.43
10               0.05               0.02              0.77           0.74
RV2/            -2.24              -0.03                             1.94
1/ Works are assumed to be completed in 1987.
2/ Residual values on the basis of assumptions in Annex 4.4 %Construction
costs minus cost of worn out pavement).



- 86 -                           Annex 4.5
Page 2 of 3
(2) Lubumbashi-Likasi Road
Year-        'With Project   "Without Project"    Project             Net
Costs              Costs            Benefits      Benefits
0               4.22                0.66               0.51         -3.05
1               0.00                0.04               1.06           1.10
2               0.01                0.04               1.09          1.12
3                0.02               0.04               1.13           1.15
4               0.03                0.04               1.20          1.19
5               0.04                0.66               1.20           1.82
6               0.05                0.04               1.23          1.22
7               0.06                0.04               1.27           1.25
8               0.07                0.04               1.31          1.28
9               0.08                0.04               1.34           1.30
10                0.09               0.66               1.39           1.96
11               0.10                0.04               1.43           1.37
12                0.10               0.04               1.47           1.41
13                0.05               0.02               0.76          0.73
RV              -2.46              -0.26                               2.20
(3) Likasi -Kolwezi Road
Year         -Wlth Project'  'Without Project'    Project            Net
Cssts       Costs                   Benefits      Benefits
0                5.80               2.00               0.32         -3.48
1               0.00                0.04               0.66          0.70
2               0.01                0.04               0.69          0.72
3               0.01                0.04               0.70          0.73
4               0.02                0.04               0.73          0.75
5               0.03               0.04                0.75          0.76
6               0.04                0.66              0.77           1.39
7               0.04                0.04               0.79          0.79
8               0.05                0.04               0.82          0.81
9               0.06                0.04               0.84          0.82
10               0.06                0.04               0.87          0.85
11               0.07                0.04               0.89          0.86
12               0.08                0.66               0.92          1.50
13               0.08                0.04               0.95          0.91
14               0.09                0.04               0.95          0.90
15                0.05               0.02               0.50          0.47
RV              -4.04              -0.33                              3.71



- 87 -                           Annex 4.5
(4) Nsele-Kenge Road                   Page 3 of 3
Year         -With Project-  "Without Project'       Project          Net
Costs              Costs            Benefits       Benefits
0                3.84               0.60               0.31          -2.93
1                0.00               0.03               0.63           0.66
2                0.01               0.03               0.64           0.66
3                0.01               0.03               0.67           0.69
4                0.02               0.03               0.68           0.69
5                0.03               0.03               0.70           0.70
6                0.04               0.60               0.72           1.28
7                0.04               0.03               0.75           0.74
3                0.05               0.03               0.77           0.75
9                0.06               0.03               0.80           0.77
10                0.06               0.03               0.83           0.80
11                0.07               0.03               0.85           0.81
12                0.08               0.60               0.88           1.40
13                0.08               0.03               0.91           0.86
14                0.09               0.03               0.92           0.86
15                0.05               0.03               0.47           0.45
RV              -2.24               -0.30                              1.94
(5) Likasi-Kambove Road
Year         With Project"  "Without Project"        Project          Net
Costs              Costs            Benefits       Benefits
0                4.22               0.66               0.38          -3.18
1                0.00               0.04               0.79           0.83
2                0.01               0.04               0.83           0.86
3               0.01                0.04               0.84           0.87
4                0.02               0.04               0.88           0.90
5               0.03                0.04               0.90           0.91
6               0.04                0.66               0.93           1.55
7                0.04               0.04               0.95           0.95
8                0.05               0.04               0.98           0.97
9               0.06                0.04               1.01           0.99
10                0.06               0.04               1.05           1.03
11                0.07               0.04               1.08           1.05
12                0.08               0.66               1.10           1.68
13                0.08               0.04               1.14           1.10
14                0.09               0.04               1.18           1.13
15                0.05               0.01               0.60           0.56
RV                2.48              -0.33                              2.15



- 88 -
Annex 5-1
AiRn
Sixth Righway Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. OR:  1986-88 Comprehensive Highway Program - 1985
2. OR: Rapport Annuel d'Activites - 1984
3. Tractionel Consultants: Etude de ltorganisation du Secteur Routier
au Zaire - 1985
4. OR:  Evaluation globale de l'etat du reseau bitume ZaIrois - 1984
5. Enertrans Consultants: Etude sur le prix des produits petroliers -
1984
6. Cabinet Beauvais Consultants: Etude de la taxation des usagers de la
route - 1984
7. IDA - Appraisal of OR's Training Program, Mr. Tran-Luu's
Back-to-Office Report dated 08/13/84
8. Economic Analysis: Working Papers
9. OR's Equipment and Operations: Technical Notes



ZAIRE
Sixth Mghwav Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Organization Chart of Office des Routes
Accounting                            Board
Board                 _         of Directors
External              - - - - - - - - -   Management
Audit   |                          Committee
Tendering                                                             Regulation
Board                                                              Committee
General
I  -             -  ~~~~~~I Mainager    _
|Admnlnstrattve|                              ,Organization                      | c Tcnlcal|
Director                                                                        Director
Financial   | enoral            uanl
Department      Services    Resources                  Management    Works Laboratory   Department            Department
Control                                         . 
.          ~~~Personnel |                -|                                 Road               Research 
Traning                     Public                         PEquipment    |
Relations                                            Constructio
--.       v             X                   I   ~~~~~~~~~~~Ferries             I
|Inspec to rs|                                                                              Ma I I hn tenanceI
|General  |                             ,                             Procurement    |                 I      |
-- I       | ~Operational  |ll1
Units                                  Admin. & Finance                          rt



-90                                             Chart 2
___            1985dhis  1 T       6    T 1s               ! 9      1    1
A~~~~~~erli3       I I  -t   V-T 3           1  2  3   -  12-1314  11 2  3               11213  4
Bon  Ifmette                  Ak
XI.f  CdfuaE   of Zgiaipi
Qroiet eopainDACv.                                                                                          L
Ci) Wqralon of UMii data             _        ____   
CrUt imdv ap   m                          Mt
(li) Udifz p d               t          s  _ _ 
((u) ms _ = _ _m
Clv) Kmkmdai of                                                  = 
(v) la ami                                                       ___
(IV) anai of  bdtm                        CR
(VII) b*ia of  otit                      npkm
im pmmnm of Sjru Paru. SWLIM
id TboI fcwro tamietmvelp
no ad farriuB, ustratels:.amt
.d tools fwor l a        _       t
el) Prdwrt1m   au Etd     in             c_
(it ML _m _   I         IMI
Uii) udilpp perrd                       &qiPlia
(iv) EnhmtiAx of bEal                     cot
(v) ML     _ swam                        Mt
(VI) hind of   ~                          m
(Vii) 2*0t1ma Of  .ctract               SupplUe-
of (u)                              OWIM                     - - 1-           - - I 
'ra)m"n Widdi, evainatin ad
(51) hind af                               CI RN
(B.) zdo of 1en                                     I                         I t  I  t               -I
Ci) ftqaraiiam Of amt.r fm
(ii) hAd of                               OR c
t Ciii! Mozdt  of  SatufppUe-r
(IV) installation of .tnwbbe.            Cm                                                  
V. _zutia  of  A    Rs" for VF r"m
Ci)   t        re . appawl of           (kmu.I
(tXrid Mddiag, .uLmam ad apoal              m 131                                               II
(I A) -d af                                att c+
(IV) &002iam Of lbeEaa                a      own                                              --     
VI. TadodaX Assistants. CIIaiLtI
S viin. ad of fic     dz-e I
(iOAl)VlPr ktlmaad ;iRoma. of co ntracts   1Wm
(Ii)EMOrtimi Of Quitmata              Onzlta3                        -- --                   
Mi) Asminmt a lett   of inwItatiaa      sIIm
(iL) S.lar ma of I  IIatI    ad
.i1.bre of ruhina                     li
WIi) Mm&t0 of conro2                   03imltnt.                                                
C1)nYwatfk .diu  ad appoval of  cons./
(Si) Uddag. .mu.Jntim ad qnwo-1 .l
(CI) _ard of                           OR R|
(IV) badoo ao        c SmI            I 
A) 4t  alSr    i    far Tzal_d III
()i A pd  m lat11 of 1  11 1 l          im O
(Si ) SelctimI of aIn,laz  ad
till) ametin af cotam                   Cinzlrta                              ----s                     
Ci) PRUENCIOR redef.  IPpIIaI of                                                               I          III
(     &)"   enualami ad apro umi      EDIth'
(iv) Atim of    arraco .               ati
Civi) O-m o af a                       IXm          LI I           ____



i , ', ;wCIe'^ ,1  1"    '8§ _" __"   CENIRA ICAN REPUBLIC
<zt~~~~~~~~~~f                                                                             5 UDAN   ^_"    ^         J  >/_# 
/-'-- ,--.  '2I
otPEOPLE'S REPUBLIC {'rUtU $  ,.
i11%    AO OF THE CONGO 'I
G A 8 0 N~~~~~~~.2 
...;\_,\,1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .X     ..f    W
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IF I L I I. /T                             i)  S  Wjj
StCU§lil§ .  ec   a   '".  ^ tvtGOt ^     );  %          .S*1C1ALE. ii T          "'
ZAIRE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' !                                   ANZA14(A 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~
Ilg,OI5~ IU'C ANGNOLAAABI 
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK                 <I1
A 1.~ ~ ~ 1?Fd         Zla                             A|<                                      1)  7  t^I A
too    ce.t eld                           ,>      ..  i                   ool *i 
11190e bw4" v ti"               N  IA      A2 * ,
_- I"w@t^Otldcs                         ~~~~~~ZAMBIA       -    j
r---                   ;1> XJ~~~~~O






