Doment Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C  /6 0ig o- -SzEw
Report No. P-4092-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 55.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 24, 1985
TI& docmet ho a rIeeis disuIbimJ  .d my be umd by rcipuleany in the pedfirmace of
their official dud. fis l eb s my nat odherwie be diseloed witbout W dd Bank satbohizdtiom.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:  Zaire (Z)                         Z 1.00 = 100 makuta
Exchange Rates:
March 11-15, 1985 (average)                        Z 1.00 = SDR 0.0219
US$ 1.00 = Z 48.015
Z 1.00 = US$ 0.021
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           =      3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)      =      0.62 mile
1 sq kilometer (km2)  =      0.386 square miles
1 sq meter (m2)       =      10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)           1.13 cubic yards
1 metric ton (ton)    =      2,204 pounds
FISCAL YEAR: January 1 -o December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
cMZ        Compagnie Maritime Zairoise (Shipping Company)
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
GET        Groupe d'Etudes de Transport (Transport Studies Group)
MP         Ministry of Planning
MPW        Ministry of Public Works
iTC        Miinistry of Transport and Communications
ONATRA     Office National des Transports (National Transportation Office)
OR         Office des Routes (Office of Roads)
PIP        Public Investment Program
RVA        Regie des Voies Mriennes (Airways Commission)
RVF        R&gie des Voies Fluviales (River Navigation Commission)
RVM        Regie des Voies Maritimes (Maritime Navigation Commission)
SGMTP      Service de Gestion du Mat6riel des Travaux Publics (Public
Wiorks Equipment Management Department)
SNCZ       Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (National Railway)



FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
Sixth Highway Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Zaire
Amount:              SDR 55.5 million (USS55.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA Terms
Project Description: The project's main objectives are to (i) help continue
and consolidate the country-wide bridge, road and fer-
ry rehabilitation and maintenance programs, and
(ii) strengthen the administration and training
capabilities of Office des Routes (OR), the public
agency in charge of the main road network. To this
end, the project would support key components of OR's
1986-88 comprehensive highway program and would
include (i) routine and periodic maintenance of the
main roads (including ferry operations) through the
provision of equipment, spare parts, materials and
supplies; (ii) bridge repair and maintenance;
(iii) construction of access ramps for ferries;
(iv) strengthening OR's management through technical
assistance, consulting services and office equipment;
and {v) training.
Project Benefits
and Risks:           The main project benefits would be lower vehicle ope-
rating costs, better use of vehicles because of higher
speed, and higher reliability of road transport. Main
risks associated with the project are that (i) OR's
productivity would be lower because of unforeseen
changes in Ot's organization and management, fuel
shortages, or inadequate local funding; and
(ii) traffic would not increase. These risks have
been taken into account in the design of the project.
This document has a restrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Estimated Costs (January 1985 prices):
Local   Foreign   Total
-- USS million -
I.  Road Maintenance                       5.46    30.90    36.36
II.  Bridge Repair and Maintenance          1.67      3.00     4.67
III.  Construction of Access Ramps
for Ferries                            0.73     0.90      1.63
IV.  Technical Assistance, Consulting
Services and Office Equipment          0.74     5.89      6.63
V.  Training                               0.13      1.50     1.63
Total Base Cost                        8.73    42.19    50.92
VI.  Contingencies
(i)  Physical (10%)                     0.87     4.22      5.09
(ii) Prices                             1.78     8.59    10.37
Sub-total                  2.65    12.81    15.46
Total Cost (Net of Taxes) 1/          11.38    55.00    66.38
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign       Total
=US$ million-
Proposed IDA Credit        -           55.00        55.00
Government               11.38           -          11.38
Total             11.38        55.00        66.38
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
FY86     FY87      FY88     FY89      FY90
-US$ million
Annual              6.5     18.5      20.0      9.0      1.0
Cumulative          6.5     25.0      45.0     54.0    55.0
Economic Rate of
Return:               About 40 percent for road maintenance (including
technical assistance) which account for 84Z of total
project costs.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 5372-ZR
Map: IBRD 16564 R
1/    Project Items would be exempt of taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a pro-
posed development credit to the Republic of Zaire in the amount of SDR
55.5 million equivalent (US$55.0 million) on standard IDA terms to
finance a Sixth Highway Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1/
2.        The latest Grey Cover economic memorandum was distributed to
the Executive Directors in April 1985 (Report No. 5417-ZR). Its major
findings are reflected below.
Background
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area
and the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita,
estimated at about US$160 in 1983, ranks among the lowest in the conti-
nent. Approximately one-third of its population of about 30 million
live in urban areas, and the population density is 12 persons per sq.
km. Urbanization has been proceeding at a rate of about 7 percent per
annum, or more than twice the rate of population growth. Although
agriculture (commercialized and subsistence) normally accounts for 30
percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for more than three-
quarters of the population. Mining and mineral-processing normally
account for about 18 percent of GDP; this sector has traditionally been
the largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds
of the country's export earnings.
4.        When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared
for the change, both technically and institutionally. The first six to
seven years following independence were marked by violent political
strife and a severe disruption of the economy. But after the restora-
tion of political order and stability in 1967, GDP grew by about 7 per-
cent in real terms annually until 1974. Since then, however, Zaire has
been experiencing serious economic difficulties which are attributable
1/ This section, amended to reflect the latest developments, remains
substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report for the
Lulua Agricultural Development Project (P-3907-ZR) dated December
13, 1984.



- 2 -
to both external and internal factors. The weakness of world copper
prices through most of this period was a major contributor to both the
severity and the duration of the crisis.
Evolution of Current Difficulties
5.        Until the late 1970s, Zaire's attempts to cope with the cri-
sis were uneven and uncoordinated. As a result, by 1978, commercia-
lized GDP contracted to about 10 percent below the pre-crisis (1972-74)
level; the overall budgetary deficit attained a record level; and def-
icit financing, together with the worsening shortage of basic consumer
goods, fuel and intermediate products, pushed the annual inflation rate
to about 50 percent. Although the decline of GDP was arrested in 1979,
the economy continued to face serious difficulties that year. The
expansion of credit to the Government (to firance the budgetary defi-
cit) and to the rest of the economy continued to exert pressure on
prices, which rose by more than 100 percent in the capital city during
the year. The balance of payments also remained under strong pressure,
as evidenced by the continued accumulation of external payment arrears
- a trend which had started in 1975. Although two stabilization pro-
grams, supported by the IMF, were adopted and three debt rescheduling
agreements under the Paris Club were concluded during the 1975-79
period, these could not be implemented and therefore brought limited
relief.
6.        The year 1979 saw the beginning of more systematic efforts by
Zaire and its major donors to deal with the crisis. These included a
new stabilization program supported by the IMF; debt rescheduling
agreements with the Paris Club (December 1979) and the syndicated pri-
vate banks (April 1980); the preparation of a public investment program
(PIP) for 1979-81 with the help of the World Bank; the installation of
external advisers at the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance; the
revamping of some institutions (the Customs Office, the Ministry of
Agriculture, the Investment Commission), and the creation of others (a
Central Pay Directorate at the Ministry of Finance). These and other
efforts produced considerable improvements in 1980. GDP expanded by
2.4 percent in real terms, aided by a strong recovery in copper produc-
tion. The budgetary deficit was reduced substantially, and the infla-
tion rate was cut by more than half - to about 44 percent - despite
the devaluation of the zaire by about 30 percent vis-a-vis the SDR
early in the year. At the same time, Zaire observed all the perform-
ance criteria under the new IMF-supported stabilization program and
complied with the debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club
and the syndicated private banks.
7.        Largely on the strength of this improved performance, in mid-
1981 Zaire adopted a three-year program of economic and financial
adjustment supported by an  Extended Fund Facility- (EFF) from the IMF
in an amount equivalent to SDR 912 million. Zaire also concluded (in
July 1981) a new debt rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club. How-
ever, economic performance during the year fell below expectations
because of external and internal factors. The weakening of the copper
and cobalt markets caused Zaire's merchandise exports to fall by about



- 3 -
US$540 million (or 26 percent) in nominal terms. Real imports were
lower than in any year during the crisis and amounted to 40-50 percent
of the pre-crisis level. As a result of these developments as well as
a weakening of fiscal discipline, the budgetary deficit expanded four-
fold in nominal terms - to the equivalent of 7 percent of GDP. Zaire
could not comply with either the criteria under the EFF or the July
1981 debt rescheduling agreement; it began accumulating external debt
arrears in the third quarter of 1981; and the EFF was formally cancel-
led effective June 21, 1982.
8.        World copper prices fell sharply in 1982 -  to the lowest
level (in real terms) in more than 30 years - thus accentuating
Zaire's economic difficulties. By year end, external debt arrears
totaled about US$940 million, of which US$690 million were on public
debt and US$250 million on commercial debt and invisibles. The budget-
ary deficit expanded, too, to about twice the level of 1981 (in nominal
terms), and was equivalent to about 10 percent of GDP. After recover-
ing by 2.4 percent a year in 1980 and 1981, GDP contracted marginally
(by about 1 percent) in 1982; the inflation rate edged upward, averag-
ing 37 percent; and the exchange rate came under strong pressure, the
spread between the parallel market rate and the official exchange rate
of the zaire rising to 3.5 to 1.
Government Action
9.        In mid-1981, in conjunction with the medium-term program sup-
ported by the EFF (paragraph 7), the Zairian authorities took a number
of interrelated steps toward stimulating supply, keeping the growth of
demand within appropriate limits, and improving foreign exchange mana-
gement: the zaire was devalued by a further 40 percent vis-a-vis the
SDR; interest rates were adjusted upward; and the existing price con-
trols or. most goods were removed in order to stimulate the private
sector. In addition to completing a revised PIP for 1981-83, Zaire
began preparing an Agricultural Recovery Plan designed to bring about
improvements in the following areas: (i) strengthening of institu-
tions; (ii) policies for pricing, marketing, credit, and foreign
exchange allocation; (iii) implementation of on-going projects; (iv)
investment programming for the sector; and (v) research, extension and
training. The Recovery Plan was discussed at a meeting of the Consul-
tative Group for Zaire held in June 1982. The Zairian authorities
cooperated with the IMF and the Bank in the preparation of a fiscal
study whic.i comprised the budgetary process, (with emphasis on the
control over expenditures), tax reform and the tax regime of Ggcamines
(the state-owned company producing most of Zaire's copper and all of
its cobalt). This study was completed in May 1982, and since then, a
number of reforms recommended by the study have been adopted by the
Government.
10.       In 1982, Zaire made additional attempts to improve economic
management and institutional performance. The Ministry of Agriculture
was significantly reorganized as part of a broad program of institu-
tional reforms for the sector. The Government appointed new, more
broadly-based Executive Boards for G6camines and SOZACOM (the state-



- 4 -
owned company marketing the bulk of Ggcamines' output); important
changes were made in the top management of Gecamines; and a new market-
ing arrangement between the two firms was approved. Furthermore, the
Government announced the decision to 'privatize' the ownership and/or
management of 37 public enterprises, and it further relaxed the remain-
ing price controls. The Government proceeded at the same time to
implement a policy of 'decentralization' whose apparent objective is to
give Zaire's regions more autonomy.
11.       The year 1983 witnessed more systematic efforts to reestab-
lish the conditions for recovery. First, in order to facilitate the
negotiation of a new agreement with the IMF, Zaire implemented a
"shadow" program for six months, focused on reducing the budgetary def-
icit and improving financial management. Second, as part of a program
of major changes affecting the mining sector, the tax regime applying
to Gecamines was substantially revamped in line with the recommenda-
tions of the IMF/Bank study referred to above (paragraph 9). Third, in
September 1983, Zaire started implementing a series of economic and
financial measures as a prelude to a formal agreement with the IMF and
a debt rescheduling linked to it. In support of these measures, in
December [983, the IMF approved a 15-month Stand-by Arrangement in an
amount of SDR 228 million (US$246 million), equivalent to 100 percent
of quota. The IMF approved concurrently the purchase of SDR 114.5 mil-
lion (USS124 million) under the Compensatory Financing Facility. This
was immediately followed by a meeting of the Paris Club at which the
creditors agreed to reschedule outstanding arrears and maturities fal-
ling due in 1984 at terms compatible with the IMF agreement. In the
meantime, the authorities prepared an Interim Economic Recovery Program
which brought together under the same framework the program of economic
and financial adjustment and an updated three-year public investment
program. The Interim Program was presented to a meeting of the Con-
sultative Group which was held on December 21-22, 1983. The partici-
pants concurred with the appropriateness of the measures taken by Zaire
as well as with the priorities of the public investment program, and
indicated their willingness to increase their support to Zaire in the
medium term.
12.       The adjustment measures announced in September 1983 and
incorporated in the IMF program comprise the foli3wing: (i) the imme-
diate devaluation of the zaire by about 80 percent vis-a-vis the US
dollar; (ii) the introduction of a transitional dual exchange rate
regime consisting of an official rate and a free market rate, leading
to the unification of the two rates (i.e., a total -float') in February
19842/; (iii) a substantial liberalization and simplification of the
exchange and trade system as a whole; (iv) a comprehensive revision of
customs duties involving significant reductions in tariffs on essential
foodstuffs, raw materials and intermediate goods and major increases on
luxury goods; (v) a considerable adjustment and liberalization of the
interest rate structure, including the lifting of all administrative
2/ The two rates were unified on February 24, 1984 at US$l = Z 33.0.



- 5 -
controls on lending rates of commercial banks (except for those appli-
cable to the non-coffee agriculture sector, for which they are 15 per-
cent); (vi) the further decontrol of prices, including producer prices
of all agricultural commodities; (vii) the adjustment of petroleum pri-
ces to take full account of the change in the exchange rate; and (viii)
the decision to limit wage increases in the public sector to about 40
percent through 1984, well below the estimated rate of inflation. The
objective of the program is to improve Zaire's balance of payments
position and to begin reviving the economy. On the fiscal side, the
program aims at eliminating the budgetary deficit (not counting exter-
nal debt payments) in 1984, thus bringing down substantially net
government borrowing from the domestic banking system.
13.       Zaire's latest public investment program covers the years
1983--85. The thrust of the program continues to be rehabilitation of
existing capacity and infrastructure. The new program represents a
step forward in several respects. In particular, it is the result of
an attempt for the first time to tailor the program to resource avail-
abilities using a macroeconomic scenario. It is 13 percent smaller (in
real terms) than its predecessor for that reason and the projects have
been selected with a view to minimizing foreign exchange requirements.
As a result, the new program's external financing gap (US$290 million
over 1983-85) is much smaller than that of the last one in both abso-
lute and relative terms. Furthermore, the program is consistent with
both the stabilization program and the investment budget for 1984. The
program has benefitted from a continued effort by the Zairian authori-
ties since 1979 to identify and either improve or eliminate 'problem
projects". The monitoring effort was strengthened in 1982 and 1983 and
is to be intensified with the on-going introduction of a new project
control and supervision system and strengthened inter-ministerial coor-
dination. At the Consultative Group meeting held in December 1983, the
participants took two important steps relevant to the execution of the
Public Investment Program. They agreed on the appropriateness of con-
vening co-lender meetings on transport (highways) and G6camines, and
they endorsed Zaire's decision to reactivate the External Resources
Coordination Committee (which had not met for about two years) partly
in order to review progress in providing Zaire with assistance, finan-
cial and technical, required in the crucial and difficult years ahead.
The colenders meeting on highways was held successfully on March 4,
1985; the meeting on Gecamines is currently scheduled for the fall of
1985.
Current Situation and Direction
14.       The economic situation continued to improve in 1984, aided by
some favorable external developments, and Zaire's effort to implement
both the debt rescheduling agreement and the IMF program. Export
earnings are estimated to have increased by nearly 20 percent in
nominal terms despite the sharp drop of copper prices, because of
larger receipts from cobalt, diamonds, coffee, and petroleum. The
export gain has, however, been partly offset by the larger external
debt payments which Zaire has been making in compliance with the debt
rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club. But, Zaire has benefitted



- 6 -
from larger purchases from the IMF, as well as increased external
capital disbursements. Based on preliminary data, merchandise imports
in 1984 registered some increase in real terms for the first time since
1980. The budgetary deficit was in the order of three percent GDP
(compared to four percent in 1983), a result obtained at the cost of
limiting nominal wage increases well below the inflation rate. The
sharp decline in inflation was by far the most dramatic change in
1984. The average inflation rate dropped from 76 percent in 1983 to an
estimated 52 percent in 1984. During the December 1983-December 1984
period, the consumer price index in Kinshasa rose by only 17 percent,
in marked contrast to the increase of 100 percent registered in the
preceding 12 months. During 1984, according to preliminary estimates,
Zaire's GDP grew by about 2.5 percent, compared to 1.2 percent in 1983
and -2.2 percent in 1982.
15.       Zaire's exports are expected to improve in the next three
years assuming a recovery of copper prices, but the resource
constraints will remain severe, in part because of the external public
debt burden. The latest Paris Club agreement affects only arrears and
1984 maturities; although as a result of the agreement the debt service
ratio in 1984 has been reduced to 18 percent, the contractual debt
service due in 1985-89 is equivalent to nearly 35 percent of projected
exports of goods and nonfactor services - a ratio which seemsincompa-
tible with even a modest economic recovery. Moreover, as a result of
the sharp drop in commitments over the last few years, the undisbursed
project pipeline - the source of future disbursements - has been
reduced to US$540 million by end 1984, compared to US$1.2 billion in
1975. While the donors have indicated their disposition to increase
their aid to Zaire progressively, this will take time and depend on the
improvement of external confidence.
16.       Overall, Zaire seems in a better position to make progress
than two years ago for several reasons. First, the measures taken
recently, with the possible exception of the hasty creation of a
central procurement agency for all parastatals, are more comprehensive,
more coherent, and better prepared than before.  A case in point is to
adoption of the new fiscal regime for Gecamines, which enables both the
Government and the company to improve resource planning, and the
revision of the Customs Code to complement changes in the exchange rate
regime. Second, some of the improvement which has taken place,
especially in the budgetary sphere in 1983, is structural in nature:
some expenditures have been curtailed for good (e.g. through efforts to
rationalize the government payroll); -nd some categories of revenues
(e.g. customs, tax contributions by Gecamines) have received a
permanent boost through the exchange rate adjustment.
17.       Developments since 1983 represent a net and substantial
improvement, and Zaire has met most of its obligations towards the
IMF, and complied with the Paris Club agreement. Stabilization efforts
are expected to continue under a new stand-by arrangement for the equi-
valent of SDR 162 million over twelve months, approved by the IMF in
April 1985. Medium term prospects remain, however, severely con-
strained by a number of structural and financial difficulties: weak



-7-
commodity prices, declining aid flows, and the external debt burden
(para. 15). Any recovery and development scenario crucially depends on
the contir aed efficacy of short-term macroeconomic management, as this
is key to creating the confidence needed for an expansion of commit-
ments or further debt rescheduling. Short-term efforts should, how-
ever, be completed by adequate sector-specific, production-oriented
policies in the context of medium-term sector strategies. Finally, the
pace of recovery will also be determined by the willingness of the
donors/creditors to show increased flexibility to adjust their assist-
ance to changed circumstances and needs, or to reduce the reaction
time.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
18.       From 1969 to date, the Association has approved 38 credits
totalling about US$580.0 million for agriculture, transport, develop-
ment finance company operations, water supply, power, petroleum techni-
cal assistance and education projects. The Bank Group has also exten-
ded grants totalling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two
planning assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan
of US$100 million for the Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was
cofinanced by the European Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab
Foreign Bank, and which provided for special repayment arrangements
linked to the project's export earnings. A Technical Assistance Credit
was approved in 1983 to assist Gecamines with its efforts to restruc-
ture its organization, improve its manpower and prepare a long-term
rehabilitation and expansion program. The IFC, which has a US$1.3
million equity participation in the Societe Financiare de Developpement
Economique (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan in 1978 for an off-
shore oil production project, and a US$230,000 loan in 1982 for studies
related to the development of an aluminium complex at Banana.  In 1985,
IFC has approved a US$6.25 million loan to, and a US$528,000 equity
participation in a textile company (SOTEXKI); a US$15.0 million loan to
the 'Grands Hotels du Zaire"; and a US$100,000 equity participation in
a cotton farming operation. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1985.
19.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been
institution building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was
established in 1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The major trans-
port agencies, ONATRA, SociEte Nationale des Chevins de Fer Zairois
(SNCZ), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), Regie des Voies Maritimes
(RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), have received technical and financial
assistance from the Association, which also helped establish the
National Livestock Development Authority (ONDE). In the case of Geca-
mines, the Bank loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing and now
supported by a technical assistance credit, intended to define ways and
means to strengthen the management, financial position and planning of
the company.



- 8 -
20.       Project implementation has been satisfactory in spite of
difficulties resulting from the country's inadequate manpower and mana-
gement capability and, in recent years, because of the economic
crisis. In the last two or three years, release of the required
budgetary funds has been difficult periodically because of budgetary
constraints. Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel,
and the deterioration of the transport network and marketing system
have resulted in severe supply problems for most projects. Recruiting
and retaining adequate staff has also been difficult. In January 1980
the Bank undertook with Zairian officials an overall review of Bank
Group projects which, for the first time, provided an integrated view
of implementation problems; this resulted in an acceleration and impro-
vement in the utilization of Bank Group assistance, particularly in the
agricultural sector. A second overall review, focussing on macro-
economic and sectoral issues and on their impact on project implementa-
tion, took place in May 1983 and assisted the Government in formulating
the important economic measures of September 1983 (para. 12).
21.       Sixteen credits and one loan have been totally disbursed.
Completion reports have been issued for all projects. Performance
Audit Reports have been issued for the First SOFIDE, the First, Second
and Third Highway Projects, the River Transport Project, the Rail/River
Project and the First Education Project. The conclusion of the audit
and completion reports was that the Bank Group's impact on institution
building had been mixed. All project entities had encountered operat-
ing difficulties beyond their control as the economy deteriorated,
financial resources grew scarcer and the problems besetting the invest-
ment environment were exacerbated by the Government's zairianization/
radicalization measures. Nonetheless, effective administrations had
evolved in REGIDESO, SOFIDE and the Office des Routes, the highway
agency. Performance of ONATRA, the port and river transport agency,
had not improved as a result of the first River Transport Project but
did improve under the Rail/River Project. More attention to institution
building activities would have been beneficial in the education sector;
administrative weaknesseq in the Department of Education were cited as
partly responsible for poor performance under the First Project and the
inability to implement investment components under the Second Education
Project which resulted in cancellation of US$18.8 million in February
1983. In the case of Gecamines, the delay in project implementation
and reorientation of project scope from expansion/rehabilitation to
rehabilitation only were not attributable to institutional weaknesses,
but rather to a combination of external forces Cropper price decline,
Shaba invasion) and domestic economic crisis; nevertheless, positive
results were achieved in the areas of tax reform, marketing and
management through the dialogue established under the Expansion
Project and contiauing under a Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1336-
ZR). Partly as a result of the project, Gecamines production had
returned to the full capacity level. Bank Group support to all of the
above mentioned entities is continuing through follow-on projects



- 9 -
designed to address the issues raised by the completion and audit
reports.
22.       The rate of disbursement to Zaire (19 percent for fiscal
years 1982-84) is average for the Eastern Africa Region. While dis-
bursement performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have
arisen in several projects. In the ease of early credits for trans-
port, education and livestock (Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the
lack of a strong project entity caused implementation delays. Economic
conditions were also a factor in slowing project programs in instances
where government counterpart funds were not available (Third Highway,
Credit 660-ZR; Second Education, Credit 624-ZR) and where the invest-
ment environment experienced slow recovery from the aftermath of abrupt
nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE, Credit 710-ZR). Future project imple-
mentation should be less affected by the above influences given the
strengthening of institutions under subsequent projects and efforts by
the Government to improve budgetary support of IDA-financed projects.
As of June 30, 1984, the Bank Group's share of Zaire's total debt dis-
bursed and outstanding was about 6 percent.
23.       In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have
been directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development
of the agriculture, industry/mining and transport sectors, in part
through the design and implementation of appropriate new policies.
Initial efforts in support of the energy sector include the Shaba Power
System Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1224-ZR) and the Ruzizi II Regional
Hydroelectric Power Project (Cr. 1421-ZR). Our lending will continue
to assist the development of the agriculture sector within the frame-
work of the new Agricultural Recovery Plan (see para. 9 above); to
promote the development of the industrial and mining sectors; and to
support the transport sector. In addition, further support will be
considered for the energy sector to develop power and to minimize the
cost of supplying petroleum products to the country. An Education
Technical Assistance and Training Project to improve the management of
the education sector and relevance of education programs was recently
approved. Preparation is under way for an industrial sector credit
which would assist the Government in identifying and implementing
priority policy changes in the sector, and finance imports of spare
parts and essential equipment; a technical assistance project to
improve investment planning, budgetary procedures, and parastatal
management; and a rehabilitation project for Gecamines.
PART III. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Transport System
24.       The transport sector is critical to the development of Zaire
because of the country's size (about 2.3 million km2) and the uneven
distribution of population and economic activities. The most
significant element in Zaire's transport network is the river/rail



- 10 -
system which provides about 15,000 km of navigable waterways and 5,000 km
of rail track in several disconnected networks. Most of the 145,000 km of
roads, of which only 2,400 km are paved, were built to provide local access
and to feed into the rail and river network. While river and rail
transport have stagnated in the recent past, road transport has continued
to grow. Dne main seaport, Matadi, and two major inland ports, Kinshasa
and Ilebo connect rail and river transport. Of about 150 airfields and
airstrips in Zaire, 30 are served by local airlines, and three can
accommodate wide-bodied aircraft. Two pipelines transport refined
petroleum products from Matadi to Kinshasa. Zaire's principal traffic
corridor is the Voie Nationale (VN), a transport chain (rail-river-rail)
stretching nearly 2,700 km from the mineral-rich Shaba Region to the
Atlantic Ocean on the estuary of the Zaire River. The VN is crucially
important to Zaire because it is the only evacuation route for its mineral
exports entirely within the country.
25.       While the basic transport infrastructure and equipment is
sufficiently developed to meet current transport demand, their
effectiveness is severely limited. Shortages of spare parts and fuel have
criticially impaired the use of equipment. Insufficient maintenance and
investment over many years have generally resulted in an accumulation of
worn out, unreliable and outmoded equipment and facilities that translate
into poor service and high transport costs.
26.       Sector Organization.  The organization of the sector is basically
sound and for the time being does not require major reform. Three large
parastatal agencies dominate the transport sector: (i) the Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ), which operates the country's
railways (except for the Matadi-Kinshasa line); (ii) the Office National
des Transports (ONATRA), whicb provides transport services on inland
waterways, rail services between Matadi and Kinshasa and which operates all
but one of the principal ports; and (iii) the Office des Routes (OR), which
maintains the 40,900 km of main roads. In addition, five smaller public
companies have the following responsibilities: (i) Rggie des Voies
Fluviales (RVF) maintains and operates navigation aids and services on
navigable waterways; (ii) R&gie des Votes Maritimes (RVM) maintains and
operates the navigational markings and pilotage services on the Zaire
estuary from the port of Matadi to the ocean; (iii) Rggie des Votes
AMriennes (RVA) builds, maintains, and operates airports; (iv) Air Zaire
runs the state-owned airline; and (v) Compagnie Maritime Zairoise (CMZ),
the national shipping company. Except for OR, which is under the Ministry
of Public Works (MPW), these agencies are under the technical control of
the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC); all are also under the
financial control of the Ministry of Portfolio (HPF). In general, the
transport parastatals enjoy a satisfactory degree of autonomy. In addition
a large number of private operators, encouraged by the absence of
restrictive regulations, play an increasingly important role. Today,
private companies handle all road transport, about two-thirds of air
transport, and one-third of river transport.



- 11 -
Sector Strategy and Planning
27.       The Government's main objectives in the sector over the past few
years have been: {i) to focus the limited available resources on rehabili-
tation and maintenance of the existing network; (ii) to improve nperations
through strengthening of management and training; and (iii) to improve the
capacity of major existing internal transport routes. This strategy is
supported by the Bank Group and other major aid agencies which have pro-
vided substantial resources for that purpose.
28.      Planning and policy analysis in the sector are the responsibility
of GET, a study unit within MTC, and OR's planning unit.  Both coordinate
their analyses with the Ministry of Planning (MP). The latest version
(1983-85) of Zaire's Public Investment Program (PIP) allocates 42 percent
of total investments to the transport sector, making it the most important,
ahead of mining (22 percent). The share of transport is, however,
overstated because all of OR's operating costs, as well as its investments,
have been included, and because the implementation schedule for transport
projects is overly optimistic. Under more realistic assumptions, the
transport sector's share would come down to about 25-30 percent, which
still reflects both the importance of the sector for the country and the
large part of its activities under public ownership. Except for the above,
the transport component of the PIP is basically sound and correctly
identifies medium- to long-term investment priorities. The program
includes, however, a few premature projects, mainly some road
construction. MP, GET, and OR's planning cell have the capability to carry
out a better evaluation of transport sector priorities as recently
demonstrated by the preparation of the 1986-88 comprehensive highway
program (para. 51).
Main Sector Needs and Issues and Government's Actions
29.       Over the past few years, the major needs in the sector have been
(i) to improve the management and operational efficiency of the main trans-
port agencies; (ii) to provide them with sufficient financial resources in
foreign exchange as well as local currency; (iii) to establish clear and
well-founded investment priorities; and (iv) to improve the incentive
structure and encourage the development of the private sector.  These needs
are well understood by the Government which has taken significant steps
towards meeting them.
30.       In general, transport tariffs have been increased to adequate
levels, although delays have usually been too long, causing, at times,
severe cash flow problems for the main transport agencies. The major
distortion in the tariff structures of both ONATRA and SNCZ (as mineral
transport was cross-subsidized) was recently corrected. In addition,
parastatals can now get foreign exchange readily from commercial banks - a
major improvement from past critical shortages. The financial situation of
OR has also improved recently (para. 48). Since inflation remains high in



- 12 -
Zaire, it is crucial that the tariffs of public agencies and the resources
of OR be timely and adequately adjusted, which would be done under the
proposed project (para. 49).
31.       Given the scarcity of resources and the generally poor condition
of transport infrastructure and equipment, it is important that in-depth
technical and economic evaluation of all projects be undertaken. The
transport capacity of the different subsectors should also be coordinated
to avoid costly imbalances or bottlenecks. Each public agency should thus
have a well-staffed planning unit to analyze its investment needs in
economic and technical terms. In this context, Government and OR have
agreed to revise, by December 31, 1985, the terms of reference of OR's
planning unit so as to improve inter-agency coordination and to establish
systematic planning and monitoring procedures, and to staff the unit
adequately (Section 4.04 (i) and (ii) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
32.       A constant review of priorities and monitoring of achievements is
also required, to ensure the postponement of projects without adequate
economic returns. Under Credit 1335-ZR (Matadi-Kinshasa Port Project
approved in 1983), the Government has agreed to consult with the
Association prior to undertaking any project exceeding USS10 million
equivalent in the port and railway sectors. Under the proposed project,
Government and OR would agree to produce by March 31 each year a rolling
five-year comprehensive highway program, covering the current year, and a
review of implementation of the previous year's activities; such programs
would be based on realistic forecasts of the availability of local and
foreign funds, and on economic criteria satisfactory to the Association;in
addition, for any new investment or subprogram in excess of US$5.0 million
equivalent, Government would furnish to the Association a study, whose
methodology is satisfactory to the Association, of its technical, economic,
and financial viability prior to its inclusion in OR's five-year rolling
program (Section 4.04 (iii) and (iv) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
33.       The spontaneous and rapid development of the private sector
should be encouraged. This includes defining a realistic long-term policy
framework, improving coordination with public agencies, developing
appropriate support services and an adequate information system. GET is
presently undertaking a broad review of private sector activities to
provide a base for Government action. In addition, it is important that
price and incentives systems permit an efficient allocation of resources.
Fuel prices  have been much increased in the past year and are now above
ave-'ge economic cost for each product. The large discrepancies between the
prices of gasoline and diesel oil have been reduced, with the ratio betweeu
gasoline and diesel prices falling from 3.5 to 1.6. In April 1985,



- 13 -
Government introduced a price system reflecting the distribution costs of
fuels. Although the details of the new system have yet to be reviewed, it
is expected to result in a better allocation of fuels to the provinces.
Government would maintain, at all times, the prices of gasoline and diesel
oil above their economic costs, including the full transport and
distribution costs (Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). A recent study of road user charges also shows that road
transporters do not pay the full cost of road use (defined as the total
-local and foreign- cost of routine and periodic maintenance of the
entire road network necessary to prevent its deterioration). Government
has agreed to establish a technical committee to propose measures to
correct this situation (such as increase in axle load tax on trucks and
buses, improved recovery of vehicle import duties, and increase in gasoline
and diesel taxes). Government would, by December 31,1985, furnish to the
Association its recommendations for road user charges, exchange views on
those, and thereafter maintain such charges at levels sufficient to cover
the costs of road use as defined above (Section 4.06 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Bank Group Experience in the Transport Sector
34.       The Bank Group agrees with the Government's strategy in the
transport sector and has designed its assistance to support it.  Since
Zaire's independence in 1960, IDA has helped finance five highway projects
and six other projects in railways, river transport and ports.
35.       Two Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued, one for
the First Highway Project (1978), and the second jointly for the Second and
Third Highway Projects and for the River Transport and First Rail/River
Projects (October 7, 1983). The main conclusions of the latter report,
which are generally confirmed by the experience under more recent projects
(especially the Fourth Highway Project for which a PCR was issued in
January 1985) can be summarized as follows: (i) the projects under review
were probably too ambitious, given their difficult environment, and some
deficiencies in project design and supervision prevented the full
realization of their objectives; Cii) the projects aided in bringing about
major institutional development (launching of OR, RVF, and RVM, substantial
reorganization of ONATRA, and training of large numbers of Zairian
employees), but serious problems remained concerning the size,
responsibilities and strategies of ONATRA and OR; (iii) while technical
assistance still played a role in the management of ONATRA and OR, the
process of replacement by Zairian staff should be pursued while continuing
to ensure the availability of adequate management skills; (iv) policy
making and control institutions should be strengthened in parallel with the
main transport agencies; and (v) investment priorities should be analyzed
within the context of the entire transport system, rather than in relation
to one major transport corridor such as the Voie Nationale.



- 14 -
36.       All these questions are being addressed through sector dialogue
and ongoing projects, for example, by continuation of large training
programs and institutional development efforts in ONATRA, OR and SNCZ, a
broad review of the organization of the road sector (Fifth Highway
Project), analysis of RVF and RVM operations and financial management (Port
Project), and studies designed to help Government address key policy issues
such as the adequacy of road user charges and the price of petroleum
products (Fifth Highway Project). Recent projects (ONATRA Modernization,
Port and Second Railway Projects) have also focused on key priorities of
the sector as a whole and have not been limited to the Voie Nationale's
requirements.
Rationale for the Bank Group's Involvement in the Highway Sector
37.       The Bank Group's involvement in the highway sector is essential
for a number of reasons. The highway sub-sector is important to the
development of agriculture and integration of markets and can therefore be
expected to contribute greatly to the economic recovery of Zaire. It also
has a direct impact on rural areas, where two-thirds of Zaire's population
lives. OR, whose operations and development have been assisted by five
previous IDA credits, has become the key institution in highway maintenance
and construction. It still needs to be supported to pursue its objectives
with financing from Government and external donors. Since the transport
sector and OR are major consumers of public resources, especially foreign
exchange, better analysis and planning of their activities and investments
would contribute to a more efficient allocation of resources, one of IDA's
main objectives in assisting Zaire.
The Highway Subsector
38.       Zaire's inter-urban road network comprises about 145,000 km of
roads of which only about 2,400 km are paved. Numerous bridges and 228
ferries cross the dense river network. The road network, while adequate in
length for current needs, is on the whole in unsatisfactory condition. The
national and main regional roads (40,900 km) are administered by OR. Local
roads are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture which has
usually had little expertise and financing to provide adequate
maintenance. Some rehabilitation and maintenance of local roads has
however been done with assistance from OR through agriculture projects
supported by various donors and through the regional governors with a
budget from the Ministry of Agriculture. The existing arrangements have
been reviewed and alternative organization strategies proposed in the
context of an IDA-financed study. The study's recommendations (creation of
an independent urban roads agency; extension of OR's responsibilities to
58,000 km, including secondary regional roads; and progressive extension of
OR's responsibilities to local roads) are under review, for possible
implementation under a future operation on feeder roads. For the time
being, however, OR's responsibilities would not be extended or modified
without prior consultation with the Association (Section 5.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
39.       The few traffic counts that have been carried out in the recent
past show that traffic volumes range up to 1,000 vehicles per day (vpd) on
the Kinshasa-Matadi road, but most of the network carries only less than 50
vpd. Estimates also show that OR's road network carries about 95 percent
of the country's traffic.  Hence, OR's limited resources should -ontinue to
be deployed on these roads. OR has only conducted ad-hoc traffic counts in
the past and has been slow to implement a program agreed with the
Association. Program implementation has recently been sped up and
Government would continue monitoring traffic on 12 of the country's most
important road sections (Section 5.05 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). No control of axle load is currently performed in Zaire, even
on the paved road network. A study, carried out in 1981 at OR's
initiative, made useful proposals, but was not followed up by any action.
Government has recently expressed the intention to update the current
legislation and to institute import controls, which would be more
manageable than routine field controls. By December 31, 1985, Government
would submit for comments by the Association a program of action for
regulating and enforcing axle loads, including the passage of necessary
legislation and the adoption of enforcement measures, and would, promptly
thereafter, implement the program, taking into account the Association's
views (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
40.       Road Transport.  Zaire's vehicle fleet comprises about 100,000
vehicles, of which about 75 percent are light weight vehicles, and the rest
trucks, buses, and trailers. The road transport industry is mainly composed
of small traders/truckers, with old and unreliable equipment. Transport for
one's own account is also widely used, especially by agro-industries and
commercial companies. In general, the poor condition of roads, and the lack
of spare parts, fuel and ancillary services entail high road transport
costs.
Office des Routes (OR)
41.       General.  OR is an operationally and financially autonomous
agency under MPW responsible for administration, planning, construction and
maintenance of national and regional roads including bridges and ferries.
OR was established in 1971 as an entirely new institution and, in the mid
1970's, went through a period of uncertainty concerning its
responsibilities and strategies as well as its adaptation to a
deteriorating economic environment. Today, OR has become a well organi7ed
and managed agency with adequate internal controls and a motivated
personnel. This achievement is all the more significant in view of
constraints such as Zaire's size and poor inter-regional communications.
OR's present organization takes into account Government's policy of
decentralization and is adequate for implementing current road policies.
42.       Personnel, Technical Assistance and Training.  OR has about 7,600
employees, including some 300 engineers and 50 high level technicians. The
quality and performance of OR's personnel has greatly improved in the past
years, to a large extent because adequate incentive schemes have been



- 16 -
developed and extensive training programs have been established and
successfully implemented. Between 1981 and 1983 about 2,110 staff
participated in training sessions that lasted up to three months. The
organization of the sessions and quality and relevance of the program have
in general been high. OR is also taking steps to strengthen its staff
planning capabilities, involve more systematically technical departments in
the drafting of training programs, and better follow up on the performance
of trainees. A training program has also recently been elaborated that
covers the period 1985 to 1988. This program, which will involve about
2,270   employees and 6,000 man-months of training, was reviewed by IDA and
found satisfactory. The proposed project would help strengthen OR's
training capabilities and support implementation of its training program.
43.       OR employs about 60 expatriate technical assistants under a
variety of bilateral and multilateral financing, mainly in higher advisory
positions, and in technical fields. This represents a decline from the
1974 level (about 100 expatriates), while, in the same interval, OR's
responsibilities have greatly increased. This trend underlines the entry on
duty in higher positions of qualified and experienced Zairian engineers and
managers. OR plans to further decrease the number of expatriate staff to 50
by the end of 1985 and to about 30 by the end of 1988, mostly keeping them
in key positions requiring considerable technical expertise. Given past
progress in recruiting and training professional staff, OR's plans in this
area seems feasible and should be achieved.
44.       Equipment and Facilities.  OR's equipment fleet is very large.
It includes about 1400 units with a total renewal value of about US$100.0
million. The old age of its equipment is, however, one of OR's major
problems. Many items are in poor condition and should soon be replaced to
maintain OR's productivity. OR also manages a fleet of 228 ferries with a
renewal value of about US$60.0 million. Since 1980, OR has successfully
implemented a ten-year plan to replace old ferries. At the end of 1985, 63
ferries will have been replaced. Equipment management is the
responsibility of the Service de Gestion du Mlateriel des Travaux Publics
(SGMTP), a functionally and financially independent department within OR.
SGMPT operates ten workshops for road maintenance equipment and three
shipyards for ferries. SGMI? buys and maintains equipment and leases it tG
OR's other departments for carrying out their works. Availability of
equipment has increased from 50 percent to 65 percent on average since
1980, a good indication of SGMTP's satisfactory management. Ferry
availability has also been high (about 80 percent on average).
45.       Operaticns.  OR is now well established as a road administration
and as a Government owned contractor in all regions. It carries out its
responsibilities as follows: (i) repaving programs are carried out by
contract work, the design and supervision being done by consultants;



- 17 -
(ii) paved road routine maintenance is done by force account; (iii)
mechanical gravel/earth road maintenance is done mostly by force account
and occasionally by contractors; (iv) manual routine gravel/earth road
maintenance is mainly done by contract; and (v) bridge and ferry
construction and maintenance are done by force account for small scale
works, otherwise by contract. OR's work programming process is
satisfactory. Implementation of these programs is closely monitored.
Quarterly reports compare objectives and actuals, and about 20 percent of
employees' salaries are based on their unit's output.
46.       Since OR's creation, its strategies and work methods have
considerably evolved and have become better adapted to Zaire's specific
conditions. Much experience has been gained by trying very diverse
solutions in the past twelve years. The current shares of mechanical
versus labor intensive work and of force account versus contract work can
be considered adequate given Zaire's human, geographic and economic
environment. OR's output has been very satisfactory in some regions
(Bas-Zaire and Shaba, for example) and disappointing in others, although
the trend has been positive with good results on average in 1983 and 1984.
In the past, OR has suffered from shortages of fuel, insufficient funds
available for spare parts, and shortages of specific key equipment items
(loaders and graders especially). IDA's Fourth and Fifth Highways Projects
have contributed to improve this situation, an objective which would be
pursued under OR's 1986-88 highway program.
47.       Accounting.  A modern and satisfactory accounting system has been
in place at OR only since the beginning of 1984, although consulting work
is still required to complete its implementation. Each of OR's main
production units is financially autonomous. Accounts are consolidated
monthly across regions and activities, and internal audits conducted at the
central level. Since 1980, OR's accounts have been audited by independent
external auditors. Their reports have noted the continuous improvements in
OR's accounting procedures although some recommendations aimed at further
improvements of the system must still be implemented.
48.        Financing.  OR receives financing from three main sources:
(i) proceeds of a road tax on gasoline and diesel oil, which are
automatically credited to OR to cover mainly current expenditures in local
currency; (ii) the country's investment budget, which provides local
currency funds for road and bridge construction; and (iii) external
assistance, which provides foreign exchange for OR's current expenditures,
and for equipment and investments. In 1984, OR received about 900 million
zaires from the road tax (a 35 percent increase in constant terms over the
average level of the five previous years), and about 210 million zaires
from the investment budget. Road tax proceeds were increased again by 45
percent in real terms at the beginning of 1985. While contributions from
the road tax are fairly stable from year to year, those from the investment
budget vary widely. In addition to local currency contributions, OR has
received, over the 1971-84 period, a total of about US$344 million
equivalent in foreign exchange (current prices) from diverse



- 18 -
sources of external assistance: about $157 million for construction of
roads, bridges, and ferries, and the remaining $187 million for maintenance
and rehabilitation activities.
49.       Although there has been a marked improvement recently in the
total amounts provided to OR as well as in the regularity of payments, OR
maintenance and rehabilitation activities have on the whole been
under-funded. The total funds received from Government in 1984 (excluding
foreign assistance) represent less than 0.5 percent of Zaire's GNP. As a
result, OR's equipment fleet is old, shortages have regularly hampered
productivity, and paved roads have not been resurfaced on time. With the
latest fuel tax increases (para. 48), OR's resources have reached an
adequate levrel, a situation Government would maintain in the coming years,
both through adjustments in fuel prices and in the level of road user
charges and with the assistance of external aid. Local financing (mostly
through the road tax) depends on the fuel tax level, and, thus, on
petroleum products prices, which have usually been set without
consultations with OR. To remedy this situation, Government would, as a
condition of effectiveness, establish an interministerial technical
committee, including OR, to review regularly the adequacy of the fuel tax
level and to propose necessary adjustments (Section 7.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). To enable OR to operate adequately,
Government would take all the necessary steps (including adjustments in
gasoline and diesel oil taxes) to: (i) provide OR each year with the funds
necessary to finance, at least, the road maintenance, repaving, bridge and
ferry works, technical assistance and training included in OR's five-year
rolling program; (ii) ensure that the needed funds are provided, besides
foreign contributions, by the road tax on gasoline and diesel oil; (iii)
ensure that yearly road tax proceeds are never inferior to US$50.0 million
equivalent (in mid-1986 terms); and (iv) continue to transfer road tax
proceeds directly to OR (Section 4.07 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). In addition, Government would ensure availability of the fuel
needed for OR's operations (Section 5.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
50.       Recently, OR has accumulated a debt of about 150.0 million zaires
in local currency to contractors but does not have the resources to pay it
in the short-term unless it curtails its operations. Since a substantial
part of OR's 1986-88 comprehensive program is to be implemented by
contractors, high bids can be expected if there is general doubt as to OR's
ability to honor its commitments. To remedy the situation, Government
would ensure that OR has the resources necessary to (i) repay, within one
year from March 31, 1985, all its local currency debt overdue by more than
90 days as of such date (Section 4.05 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement); and (ii) pay its contractors promptly in accordance with the
contracts signed with them (Section 4.05 (a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
OR's 1986-88 Comprehensive Highway Program
51.       Following a highway subsector donor meeting held on March 4,
1985, OR has recently produced a revised comprehensive program of its



- 19 -
activities for 1986-88. This program covers the following: (i) routine
maintenance of the entire road network for which OR is responsible and
periodic maintenance of gravel/earth roads, including all OR's operating
expenditures; Cii) repaving of deteriorated paved roads; (iii) a bridge
program; (iv) a ferry program; (v) paved road construction; (vi' technical
assistance, studies, and office equipment; and (vii) training. The
program's total estimated cost is US$374.8 million (of which about US$190.5
million in foreign exchange). Details of the program are in Annex IV.
52.       The program's technical and economic justification has been the
subject of intensive discussions between Zairian authoriries and IDA during
project appraisal. The program's scope has been reduced several times to
limit it to well justified components, and to match available financing.
Although some uncertainties, especially concerning some cost estimates,
remain, the proposed program is now well balanced and satisfactory. Foreign
contributions and local financing have been secured to cover the entirety
of the program. Government has agreed to the steps necessary to maintain
adequate financing of OR (para. 49). The proposed project represents the
Association's contribution to Zaire's 1986-88 highway program.
Part IV. THE PROJECT
53.       The proposed project was appraised by IDA in June/July 1984. A
co-financiers meeting was held in Paris on March 4, 1985, followed by a
post appraisal mission. Negotiations were held in Washington from
May 10 to May 14, 1985.  Mr. Makangu Kabongo led the Zairian delegation.  A
report entitled 'Staff Appraisal Report, Zaire, Sixth Highway Project',
No.5372-ZR, is being distributed separately. A supplementary data sheet is
provided in Annex III.
54.       Objectives.  The proposed project supports the Government's
objectives of providing more efficient and reliable communications between
the country's principal centers of economic activity and stimulating
development of the agricultural sector by facilitating transport and
marketing of agricultural products. More specifically, the project, in
line with the five previous IDA-financed highway projects, aims to (i)
continue and consolidate the country-wide road, bridge, and ferry
rehabilitation and maintenance programs begun under these projects; and
(ii) strengthen OR's administration and training capabilities. To this
end, the project would address key aspects and components of OR's 1986-88
comprehensive highway program with IDA financing selected parts of these
components in coherence with other donors' assistance (see Annex IV of this
Report and Sections 3.01 (b) and 5.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
55.       Project Description.  The project includes the following:
(i) support to the routine and periodic maintenance of OR's road network
(including the operation of ferries) through the provision of equipment,
spare parts, materials, and supplies; (ii) bridge repair and maintenance;
(iii) construction of access ramps for ferries; (iv) strengthening OR's
management through technical assistance, consulting services, and office
equipment; and (v) training.



- 20 -
Components
56.       Road Maintenance.  The project would support the routine and
periodic maintenance of OR's road network (including ferries) by providing:
(i) about 30 percent of the equipment which needs replacing; (ii) 50
percent of the spare parts for equipment and ferries over the 1986-88
period; and (iii) materials, mainly bituminous binders for paved roads
maintenance, and steel and galvanized steel for culverts. This would ensure
that all routine maintenance activities take place, as well as the most
urgent periodic maintenance of gravel/earth roads and ferry operations.
57.       The three-year road maintenance program includes: paved road
routine maintenance, grading, manual maintenance of gravel/earth roads,
culvert maintenance, bridge maintenance, regravelling and rehabilitation.
On the national roads, routine and periodic maintenance would be provided
systematically. On the main regional roads, however, only routine
maintenance would be provided systematically and periodic maintenance on a
case by case basis. In addition, ferries would be maintained and
operated.
58.       Bridge Repair and Maintenance. The project would support ORts
bridge repair and maintenance program. This program would consist of a
survey of the infrastructures of about 50 bridges, and the repair of piles
and abutments of 15 bridges, and the maintenance, repair, and replacement
of steel superstructures nationwide.
59.       Construction of Access Ramps for Ferries. Ten access ramps, on
approved sites, would be constructed for the existing 35 T ferries in order
to fac4iitate ferry exploitation and prevent damage to vehicles.
60.       Technical Assistance, Consulting Services, and Office Equipmnt.
OR intends to substantially decrease its number of technical assistants,
but it will still require about 120 man-years of expert services during
implementation of its 1986-88 program. As in the past, bilateral sources
will provide the bulk of this assistance. However, to fulfill OR's needs,
about 36 man-years would be provided by the project basically to str2ngthen
OR's administrative and operational capacity. In the past, OR has
generally assessed its technical assistance needs adequately and
coordinated effectively the various available sources of financing.
61.       Consulting services (about 135 staff months) would also be
provided to: (a) improve and expand the management information system and
set up a cost accounting system; (b) strengthen the management of the
equipment fleet and the organization of SGMTP's procurement department; (c)
improve the management of human resources and introduce a computerized data
base for personnel management and training; and (d) carry out specific
studies on the improvement of work conditions and skill utilization by
public works contractors, the use of solar energy, the reorganization of
OR's general services department, and the location of quarries. Draft
terms of reference for these services, prepared by OR, were agreed at



- 21 -
negotiations. The project would also include 25 staff-months of consulting
services for short-term missions, to be agreed with IDA during project
implementation, as necessary to assist OR in improving its management and
carrying out economic studies.
62.       The project would also assist OR to (a) improve its
telecommunication system, which is a key to its efficiency, by providing
about 30 additional telexes, about 6 fixed and 60 mobile radiophones and
miscellaneous equipment; and (b) improve the management of human resources
by providing a computer system (including a maintenance contract) and
associated software at headquarters and micro-computers in each region.
63.       Training. The project would assist OR in strengthening its
training capabilities and in implementing its 1985-88 training program
which is satisfactory to IDA. This component would complement the
assistance of other donors and take into account OR's plans to reduce the
use of foreign experts in its training centers. It includes:
(i)  consulting services (78 staff-months) to provide training in the
field in civil works techniques and to start a systematic
follow up of OR's training programs, to continue the training of
OR's accounting and financial staff, to train OR's staff in the
use of computers, and to undertake various specific assignments.
The substance of these services has been agreed with IDA. Terms
of reference are being prepared by OR;
(ii)  33 fellowships for OR's high level staff for training abroad in
accordance with a program currently under preparation; and
(iii)  equipment, tools, books and various teaching materials in accor-
dance with a list to be approved by IDA.
Cost Estimates and Project Financing
64.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$66.4 million
equivalent with a foreign component of US$55.0 million equivalent, or 83
percent of total cost. Cost estimates are given in January 1985 prices.
Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been included.   Price
contingencies are based on recent Bank estimates of inflation rates as
follows: 1985 - 5.0 percent; 1986 - 7.5 percent; 1987 through 1989 - 8.0
percent. The same percentages for local and foreign costs have been used
under the assumption that the difference between local and international
inflation will be compensated for by exchange rate adjustments. Cost
figures are given net of taxes and duties estimated at about $0.8 million
equivalent, as project items would be exempt from taxes and duties. The
project's foreign exchange cost (US$55.0 million) would be financed
entirely by the proposed IDA credit. The project's local costs (US$11.4
million equivalent) would be financed by OR out of its own resources.
65.       Cost estimates are based on data provided by OR which have been
reviewed and found acceptable. They have been derived as follows: (i) for
equipment, spare parts and supplies, estimates are based on recent actual



- 22 -
CIF costs (Matadi) plus a local component for handling and local transport;
(ii) for civil works on bridges and ferry accesses, estimates are based on
preliminary engineering for the quantities and on current contracts for the
unit prices; (iii) for technical assistance and consulting services,
estimates are based on actual costs for the same services rendered under
the Fifth Highway Project and on prevailing market rates (including travel
and housing allowances).
Implementation and Monitoring
66.       OR would implement the project.  Gravel/earth road routine and
periodic maintenance, routine maintenance of paved roads, ferry maintenance
and operation would be carried out by OR's units. Civil works on bridges
and access ramps for ferries would be executed by contract. Technical
assistance experts and consultants would assist in the development and
execution of the project. The training component would be implemented by
OR's Department of Human Resources.
67.       Starting in 1985, OR would submit, by November 30 each year, its
annual work programs to the Association for approval and would not modify
work programs already agreed upon without the Association's approval
(Section 3.03 (ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In the event
of significant delays in equipment renewal or shortfalls in allocations of
funds to OR, the Association and OR would also exchange views on any
modifications to be made to the current work program. Implementation of the
maintenance component would start on January 1, 1986 as an uninterrupted
continuation of the Fifth Highway Project ard would last three years.
Equipment would be delivered before the end or 1986. Delivery of spare
parts and supplies would begin in the second quarter of 1986 and be spread
over 1986 to 1988. The bridge and ferry components would be carried out
over two years starting at the beginning of 1987. Technical assistance,
consulting services and implementation of the training component would be
spread over 1986 to 1988. The implementation schedule has been agreed at
negotiations (Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreemeut).
68.       As under the Fifth Highway Project, OR's effectiveness and pro-
aress in the implementation of its work program would be measured by indi-
cators devised for all its main activities. In particular, as is currently
done, regional targets would be set yearly for each indicator in accordance
with network needs and OR's estimated operational capacity. Regional
targets would be based on the lengths and types of roads, the number and
composition of working units assigned to the region and prevailing local
conditions. Indicators of performance, which would be submitted for IDA
approval as part of OR's annual work program, would also include
availability and utilization rates for equipment and ferries. OR would
monitor its output by using methods acceptable to the Association (Section
5.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Project's
implementation schedule has been agreed (Schedule 4 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 23 -
69.       Procurement. Spare parts, tools, supplies, materials, and
equipment financed by the Association would be grouped whenever possible
into contracts valued at US$100,000 or more and would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Ban': Group
guidelines. Spare parts, supplies, tools, materials, and pedagogical
equipment which cannot be grouped into such $100,000 contracts, and which
would total no more than $1.5 million, would be procured through
international or domestic shopping on the basis of quotations from at least
three manufacturers, dealers, or suppliers. Proprietary spare parts (for a
total amount not to exceed $2.5 million equivalent), and steel bridge
superstructures to be replaced would be procured by direct contracting
after negotiations. Exceptions to ICB would thus not exceed $4.0 million
equivalent, or about 20 percent of the concerned component total. Civil
works contracts for bridge repair and ferry access ramps would be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding. The contracts of technical
assistance personnel already in place would be renewed as appropriate; if
necessary, new experts would be recruited. Terms and conditions of these
contracts would be satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with
the procedures described in the "Guidelines for t1  Use of Consultants-
published by the World Bank in August 1981. All consultants would be
selected in accordance with the 1981 Bank Guidelines. Terms of reference
and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Association
(Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Training would
be provided by specialized institutions selected by OR in accordance with
its specific needs and after consulting several possible candidates. The
program would be submitted to the Association's approval. A summary of
procurement arrangements is in Annex V.
70.       Disbursements. Proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over 5
years3/ on the following basis:
'i) spare parts, supplies, materials, and equipment- 100 percent of
foreign expenditures; 80 percent of local expenditures for
ex-factory cost; and 75 percent of local expenditures for other
items purchased domestically;
(ii)   civil works:  65 percent of total expenditures;
(iii)   technical assistance, consulting services, and data processing
and telecommunications equipment: 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures; and
(iv)   training fellowships, teaching materials, and related consultant
services: 100 percent of total expenditures.
71.       All claims would be fully documented except for claims relating
to any contract or purchase order whose value is less than US$20,000, that
3/ The estimated schedule of disbursement does not follow the typical
sectoral disbursement profile for the region. It is, however,
considered realistic, since it is based on the project implementation
schedule, and consistent with the disbursement profiles of the Fourth
and ongoing Fifth Highway Projects in Zaire. A one-year delay after
the end of physical execution allows for completion of disbursements.



- 24 -
would be submitted under statements of expenditures. The documentation for
these claims would be held in OR and made available for inspection by the
Association. In order to expedite and facilitate disbursements, a Special
Account would be opened in a financial establishment acceptable to the
Association (Section 2.02 (b) and Schedule 3 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Association would deposit an amount of US$1.5
million equivalent in foreign exchange. All IDA financed expenditures
would be eligible for financing under the Special Account, unless otherwise
specified by the Association. The Account would be replenished monthly.
72.       Auditing and Reporting Requirements. OR is a public sector
enterprise and as such is required to prepare accounts according to Zaire's
generai commercial accounting standards. OR would continue to hate its
annual accounts and financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association for submission to the Association, 6 months
at most after the end of its financial year (Section 4.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). OR would also prepare quarterly progress
reports, to be submitted to the Association three months at most, after the
end of each quarter (Section 3.03 (i) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement), and a project completion report in a form acceptable to the
Association.
Benefits and Risks
73.       Since the first PIP (1979), one of Zaire's top priorities has
been to improve the condition of its road network, mainly because roads
play a key role in linking very spread out population and economic activi-
ties to the main river/rail transport network, and sometimes directly to
the main urban centers. Better roads would have a direct impact on
agriculture which, together with mining, is expected to lead the recovery
of Zaire's economy. Substantial progress has been achieved recently that
Government intends to pursue with the implementation of OR's 1986-88 pre-
gram. The proposed project would support this program and more specifical-
ly help increase OR's productivity by providing it with appropriate amounts
of equipment, spare parts, and supplies and by strengthening its
organization and staff. In addition, the project would support badly
needed repairs and maintenance of some key bridges, and improve the use of
larger ferries. The consequence will be lower operating costs of vehicles,
better use of vehicles because of higher speed, and higher reliability of
road transport with an overall positive effect on the economy and the
balance of payments.
74.       Since the road transport industry has proven to be very competi-
tive in Zaire over the recent past, the above benefits would to a great ex-
tent be passed on to producers and to consumers. This would result espe-
cially in cheaper food prices in urban areas, in higher profit margins for
peasants and increased consumption of agriculture inputs and finished pro-
ducts in rural areas - to the extent that marketing systems do improve and
develop, which can reasonably be expected. Some transport bottlenecks that
hamper agriculture production would also be reduced, or eliminated. In
addition, other substantial but not quantifiable benefits are likely to
accrue to rural areas from easier movements of people and better



- 25 -
penetration of various support services. The economic rate of return (ERR)
is expected to be about 40 percent for the road maintenance and technical
assistance components, which account for 84 percent of total project costs.
75.       The main risks associated with the project are that (i) OR would
not achieve the expected level of productivity because of unforeseen
changes in organization and management, shortage of fuel or inadequate
local funding; and (ii) traffic would not increase. These risks have been
taken into account in the design of the project. In addition, OR agreed
not to make any change in its organization without first consulting the
Association; Government agreed to take all steps necessary to ensure that
OR will promptly and in adequate quantities get the fuel it requires for
its operations; Government also agreed to provide required financing to OR
and maintain the road tax on fuels at levels adequate to provide, at least,
all the funds necessary for maintenance.  A sensitivity analysis has shown
that even under restrictive assumptions the project components still
achieve satisfactory ERRs. If OR's productivity were only 75 percent of
targets, the ERR of the maintenance and technical assistance components
would still be about 25 percent. If traffic did not increase, the ERRs
would be 28 percent for tle maintenance and technical assistance component.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zaire and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
77.       Special condircons af the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A special condition of Credit effectiveness would be the
establishment of an interministerial committee, including OR's
representatives to monitor and make recommendations on the level and
structure of taxes on automotive fuels.
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
may 24, 1985



- 26 -
Annex I
TASLI a   '                              Page  1 of 5
_*13                  - SCW  ZICA3  DTA UuT
ls  RPU   MrC S (ClOnED AgRnS) la
HOT                ('SIT SUNI| ESTIAT) 1k
M                   (         nc CAIIC RIDDEU INC
ma4t      z9iL      u.nATrLk    SOoTM Or S**A          ARIlCA S. OF 3MAU
am cmum SQ. EQ
ToTAL                             2345.4     2345.4      2345.4
*OICULTtlsL                       146.4       151.2       155.7
m  a capm (                           70.0       110.0       190.0           249.1                 1112.9
(KILOGANS Or OIL QUIVALENT)        45.0        80.0        74.0            62.8                  529.0
1WEIR      VITAL STAESEC
POPULATIONII.D-KAIR (THOUSANDS)   11756.0    21643.0    304B8.0
UN*1 POPLATION (I OF TOTAL)        15.7        21.6        37.8             9.2                  29.;
POPUlATION PRCTI
POPuLATIO IN MR 2000 CHILL)                              55.0
SrATIONTY POPUATION (KILL)                              171.8
POPULATION                                                1.9
POPULATION DENITY
PE SQ. M.                         7.6         9.2        12.7            32.5                   55.8
P3R SQ. M. AGt. LAND            121.3       143.1       191.2           119.2                  111.5
POPUATION AGE STUCTUIE (2)
0-14  S                          44.1       44.3        44.S            45.6                   45.4
15-44 US                         52.9        52.9        52.4            51.5                   51.7
65 AND ADM09                      3.0        Z.          2.6             2.9                    Z.9
POPULATION GOWTH RATE CZ)
TOTAL                             2.2         Z.0         2.9             2.B                    Z.6
ME"                                ..         5.2         7.6             6.2                   5.2
CRUDE mlam RATE (PER TWOS)         43.0        47.8        46.0            48.6                  47.0
CRUDE DEATH RAKE (PR TOUS)         24.3        20.8        15.8            17.7                  15.2
mOSS REPRODUCION RATz               3.0         3.e         3.0             3.2 
FAMILY PtAJNIUG
USERS (Z F MARlED W )              ..          ..
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
C1969-71-100)                     101.0       LO1.0        37.0            35.3                  91.6
TER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF RUIIENTS)         93.0       101.0        94.0            36.4                  9Y.2
PROEINS (CANS PER DAT)           36.0        37.0        33.0            49.9                  56.7
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.0       13.0        10.0 /c         13.3                   17.0
Cil1a (SES 1-4) DEAr RATE          32.0       27.0         20.0            23.8                  18.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT bIRTH (YARS)       40.0        43.9        50.3            43.4                  51.7
IrANT SIT. RATE (PR THOUS)        150.0       132.0       106.0           117.5                 102.7
ACCSS TO SAME MITER CIPOP)
TOTAL                               --       11.0        14.0 Id         21.3                   35.6
m"                                 ..        33.0        43.0 T          61.5                  54.1
RURAL                              ..         4.0         5.07;i         14.2                  27.3
ACESS TO UCwA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
tOTAL                                         5.0        22.0            32.0
U..                                           5.0        65.0 Ic         69.2
RaRL                               ..         5.0         6.o77          24.8
POPULAWION PER PHTSICIAN        79620.0    30140.0      14730.0 It      27477.8               11948.3
POP. PU NURSING PERSON           3510.0      2290.0      1920.0 iF       3396.2                2248.9
POP PFE HOSPITAL NED
TOTL                             230.0      320.0       350.0 if       1069.0                  936.9
013*1                            60.0       100.0       150.0 j        395.2                 368.7
RURAL                           770.0      1070.0      2670.07         3094.0                 4012. 
AlIISSIONS PU HOSPITAL ED
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSENIOLD
TOTAL
UR*1 AN.t.                                                   .. 6.0
AvERAGE 90 OF PE__Sa
AVEISE NO. OF PERSONS/bOi
TOTaL                              ..          ..          ..              ..                     .
URTALN
ACCSS TO ELECT tZ OF DWES}MM
TOIAL                               .           ..                          ..
URBAN 



- 27 -
Annex I
TAB2LE E 3
Page  2 of 5
ZAIRE                 -SOCIAL INDICATORS- DATA SUET
mua                                uxPaREx COUWPS cvncrrwT AVERLAGES) /s
NDST               (NOST RECT ESTIATE) /b
RECENT     LOW INCOIE AFRICA       NIODLE ITNC
i196k    197eLb    ESTINATEl-b   sOUTH oF SAABtA       AFRICA S. OF SAHBA
ADJUSTED ENRLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  60.0        Ul.0        90.0            6 09.2                91.0
AtLE                   86.0       110.0       104 .0           78.8                  90.5
-E                     32.0        6b.0        75.0 I          57.6                  73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  3.0         9.0        23.0 I          13.1                   17.4
MALE                    4.0        13.0        33.0   j    717.6                     23.7
FEMALE                  1.0         4.0        13.0 l          8.3                   14.8
VOCATIONAL (IZ OF SECONDARY)       26.5         9.0        10.0 /C          7.2                   5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RAI10
PRIARY                           40.0        43.0        30.0 If         46.1                  38.6
SECONDARY                        20.0        20.0        21 0T7          25.9                  24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)            31.3 /b    13.0         54.5            4.3                   35.6
PASSENG  CARS/THOUSAND POP          2.5         3.0          ..             3.8                  20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         ..         2.9         5-2            41.9                 100.8
TV lECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            _          0.3         0-3             2.0                  18.5
NEWSPAPER (-DILT GENERAL
INTERESr) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION           1.2         9.2         1.6 /f          5.4                  17.2
CINEA ANNUAL ATTENDANCAPITA         0.1         0.1         .-              1.6                   0.3
TOTL LAO  FORCE (THOUS)          8216.0      9465.0     12476.0
FEMALE (PERCENT]                 46.4        44.5        42.4            36.5                  33.8
ABRICULTURE (PERCENT)            83.0        79.0        75.0            77.4                  57.1
INDUST  (PERCENT)                 9.0        11.0        13.0            98                    17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TDTAL                             46.3       43.7        40.7            41.0                  36-3
KALE                              51.9       49.8        47.7            52.1                  47.6
PCtKALE                          41.2        38.0        33.8            30.2                  25.1
ECONOMIC DEYElDENCY RATIO           1.0         1.1         1.2             1.2                   1.4
INCE DISTRIU2OE
PERCENT oF PRIVATE INCGGE
RECEIVED BT
UIIEST 5I OF BOUSEHOLDS            ..
HICUIEST ZE OF NOUSEIOLDS          ..
LOWEST 2DX OF HOUSEROLDS           ..
LONEST 40m OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..
n        T maR  RS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVER  INCOE
LEVEL (CSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..           168.3                 525.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        80.0 /e         90.8                 249.0
ESTIMTED RELATIVE POVER  INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PEE CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        76-0 /e        107.7                 477.4
RURAL.                             ..          ..        43o0 WE         65.0                 186.0
ESTIMATED POP. DELO ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOIE LEVEL CZ)
URAN                               ..          ..          ..            34.7
RIRAL                              ..          ..        80.0 Ie         65.4
HOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
s  The group averages for each indicator are populstioweighted arithmetic means. Coverage of eontries mng the
indicators depend  - availability of data and ls not unifon.
/b  Ualess otherwise noted. -ta for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961: -ta for 1970' between 1969 ad
1971; nd data for -Io.t Recent Estlste  between 1980 ad 1982.
/c  1977; Id 1976; Ie 1975; /f 1979; /L 1978; /b 1962.
JUNE. W986



3-     SdtndA .313me ) 5   ntinh  a en   eAt              n
3t  3      5Mflt.t .I. a otaIa -t-hl en .3333n
3-Psi Am - R"Vd  n-   '3-ma          21    Tt  51W3 J.
- 13511  in3- S   ~      ftees"- en-*lnttttAl -" -   -
-  u-  ea.".  *32 - di  5a531  J.l .0 .3.3. i1-  Adn   w
-1*ttt  Rei~ pee -i-.t3hS                                                               11323--ie-e   tl   WiS3   3-l'-31   ieS5  -
'259121 3 as 'SC lFMte2I SMUIM-AS " 1Z.1
met    R-g ~*   I   aI- pt-ta alIseq    mef 1. _e31t a.-sdl                                                                                           trie-s1 02S-"  -l  -
- -a- ne.-  .1Sin- PMURSS teIn iej                                                                      -11anas-ipe tavWo  e e- i.e.,.0
lea.enei .nialal .3113-a'PaM.. 3. I  a     tPa '.t. 343 .  RN.-  IR-RW 5  (P--tel  Bfl 3-a  q3s'.t ('I                                       a
-  1-W.r.      -l -                       elsWR     -a  s.Ram Ant;nt.t %-et             ".Isa- a-1           Ideea   es   ,emle  d-  ,.  .i 
an el eliiSs tetla leilee..t ~~~~~d step .te  Ale.tala.ee       t~Pat 3wAI= t,ItI  53 - --T            et   tis  -  .1.3-2a 6-la..i
""jnei. -  2-le  Jei.e-    el. 3;  "'-STi  atLatn  eqw p"J3 fldtelad -   PsI-   3-3-'1_ 3  Ai'le. e""'i llgt1  3.
I  panes- - (1  an ma] tnei    a3aB_  ...1 tatta.. utt-l1                     RR      -  A P         3-I  wa tiC  '61-25 I&        ..3-  9q    Ai.;
.I e-"  ss.ia J.a           n--saled Sa   -  .ePI.m-,           ea.                   3-i t  v - .!            11.3   -. nsi s J. an    'I   ei3  ea.et
ML  -ttl-,u ins- et Piese- ane   at ea  a- eee   e
3- ten- he -ea   mu - "u -" .e-MMT taa-h e-es Ve A. -.ime
a- ftsad" inae  a-s s taje  '                     -.3    a Metals.-* -i                    'tme. - pn-3ep  l pj  C . fitee e.A.u as-ad               ul
__VA  SI1 3- tI  t'ItC116  Inl _    e1  a   B1
be    13 ita_le  at 5iWPti. p- .eetepde  je enTtsfJsel  -   B- elt
!h1313afld,-ft Ivs 3t e-ii ne 1-a P3- ae- 'teatp                nia-                  Ban   t-sd4             ieelet.ttdt3jnJ   ei3 fe
OM  .atndt--al-  - hT       -I-'e. - (tmeeae  'en nl3-s;flJadea                                                                                   'p-eat,
-&el mC  51113 st- e GARB t   Ot.*   -a n 1         a-         '.att.tta            ...J2 11e- -e-a -- ae-tap,d..*te'(                     a.- -       P-551
u  Seaaa    'aln- Se Sleatl  CI -  .1-au- -  lC.            l~                      C'~s3~         1--3    t3 - IPie' SARA h   e-.-2 eeast
blet16313- 551  SI 13*11III.  3.-1 P. 555    -Ssa;*'aSeS--iain                                     i3      --  iuet s, lll1- 3i
en  .11- **3eatj*tttlj.1 -3.I3  ttt    1       UJ.    U3 -ep3Se.it-.a'eiltpe  t  e eaeedIi
'atlJ  eti  C3553  -aeia   tS3.  PtejdIeU                   tade  55  h ~3ti- JlalPI-CI          aa.1  55 I_la*l-As  et a-St.-
'en, 5551 paeai 'tiel   t,t'                                                            Itaila    . -.
an en  nlal .e-san el   i1iaa3~~~1 *-S-SBd. je  tttiM.d
.3  ll l-  511 ---W             e1t  t*  e   ltept  etl-d55i
hsetea-awt  - stA*1.te43taela    i                    aI                        i.d153I.elJ3la ;ael                                 2-19 ttttl
aa.ian at t    at tC13 39*3-i 33 AtSes  m.lva5 ee33.ai-i.5                                                                               _d 6"2
Real-, en ~-n-psea                     t i-i eeisaaa, aae-dI    Pi-3d.al  nena  ...e3*e ea a uuTii  .aiaaulti %.an
-eliet  3e'V             e  ti3el.           l3 e  l $  - .   31-   t3 t1Aeti                        s 5  a         he            aa--a.tl.ea3   t
tan .3ee tIqeaA-5 etn  *.3S   s1 -;  lal ltafld 11an flee              -P@1I. h enta53 ItasI 2-t! -                Ip.s  t' aWt 510au.
3-  e2-lt~'e312.i  a- 1.3e.sl1.51. Met.3.1 3-se- a...                                            -*P C J-  --'61-1 'MC  'e-tleln
A-he--idal  tIt.alt..e-5 -le-ilsan ele-I J_I  eat,  2.31p                    s-92I.. he e1..34 - ..sAenn-te                             ...tl  -  APe
'dtt P-  *11 -    pu .3liel       al- ie1  he~ laUelid                         P-i Ieie- fl   lea as        plsStI - 3    empamea        . ~    -
.-I  ~    ~      1131   3-IneA.ge, es.. "siltRa JInlt'2                               _ 1t" R-Is        tLIIa       'i
I, IaI.aa-  Clata'  -a-- -- 3*1p"         tinl -  31e  0l.tal3a                                                                         'e-la"Ptact '5i1'n
'3-IttlItal 33.t2- he el-15519 .  - alat'p3d.t--a adel tes            I-I maealt -2 2i-li ClllltJ  lul "Il.Cl 
T3     llet  -'ee-3tal.  -           13I 4      jens.11'i5..A~ C 'I-' 3111114313.  i                                       lW-all - n              .
Pspee   Ieale -r2. 1- .if    -ele'tt-                 -aRd,e lpa.                 35tlI Pi a   ltetfla le  a  .ltlJt.a..sna.            tsa tn
atee e1l33P.a  _le  -2. etP_                 elI e-e- taIml P-                      t3e'i'  "elt-  iaC5  Am.aesa   e.  I-e   ln
e.a& tjt  -IIu-  2               S3-he .3Mlt ad-  o   n- esn-f Ce en 'n-and e.-3 -i -&.latea  S1  le 'I e   eplt  tI-
lIst u  PlIta ' -itv all.31e      _ - 13155*ei 1"        ti3-   ane2Saftl2R3-n   Ae -ai-a                                                           P- eW
.3la*e   hendeatisdn  311   .ts  le  It.ee  ~  itneCa,            Atill-ta   t3- a    d T. eIt  'peln.WdC1-   S)3  -e2
.13__-I 3-die  'ellenal.-1  ' '1-W  nwl      -1" -Ij5 55     iCMp Asll.  iiade3e    S   mt  i-    -N  ftiie Pa31  asea1Il0le
~~11-  di      -n-D.-M  ---- -led-limm-                            14~-1e -en    t).13..1"  -B9   3l11Je =3aiene7he  Ati-T3-l
..Id"  P-:I-IB-- p- I__  --nd'-pe   esl1-  -a Pt113- asla 11 aPtn                                             'an. iJ Slesil
p-   -    Il    Alstl          1Id    .1-i  -   I-d  'p3-  he                          33.. .d3  33131A teet 1- leiSlla.   t el-.              'eM.tA.
2-l    eva2detiae   v.qear-Io, ai:atal        11.  ee1l.3e3                        'j  2 -leieel                                   --et. .5)  i-en'ia. nC P-I2.
-  3.  3   3isla-  -g.-ll.  - eaae3iiipaiw,t I3--mli e2Aaln  ela  1.1v-    tian 2.  as-ad-  sl -,ee et 3e
S.,        pep~ ~ ~~~'eddpe33e.ae  e  sst2ta  13.*  a    et-n  a.-WaoR 3~n
l3 A-     "3   a-ld 3 in   3-  -.l    I. et         sed MURad a-.  I        l   -33 -fte-B,-t3          -      --,aM.datliet   -a J.
Sad af- Iaesal 3-  tet*  -It  - Pea  R,a As nean h      mtee  Stap tao:xstfaIdd  e.e,a.wu                         3-s-wso~ -    Rp
?"MI Ift  -0~- Ae d- mle      - inIIls  as"1 mmta Isetas 't" w36Cm 3- 'taCt 'eel -IseIiis                                                543B
meI     -3                        -1 aft--a  41    *-3%31. d-9  A.-'           . C3)*Ple1J3 -   IWOttell- me iS.  he 4e--e3- -       hel ( tsltall-    -.eiAa t.
ensau.C 2.pa   .et. en eyul)alinel he  eas e   -e  neaP~       -0   "l J"eal2IdSB- ldet.. tt  p3athe.1.  - S11-5 a nt1l.es l esaers,3de
ItPP  -        '11-.3 - (13..- -R  me3 --werta) 9t351.3Selit 3-s -       e-ap q.Ed                 p           rP             .M          .
All-n S " 3- Ads Am&fted,pft-as""."Rede M            P   .          54v r - ..I"'3-I I  Met a--
S    Jo    C    asit'.931 Im Stu    n.           CMBUi=
l31l~PIC  lzfllp   I  enlet   s   111's3   eaiee'le   a   3   tC



- 29 -
ANE I
P4  f 5
ZAIRE B3 ZMC nDl4t
NMATiCAL MCr'1S 1/
-mOunt         Shre of GDP at
(LUJu US$ at    Mhkat Prica (Z)            A--I Qaith Batr (I)
ourrut pdcas    (at cwrm= pj2c)           (at co'.at. 1970 prl)
1983               1983             1981       L982      1983 P
(rss cimc Prod=  2/          4470.7              100.0              2.9      -2.2        1.2
(G  Crd=lzei)               (3414-5)             (76.4)            (2.9)    (-2.9)     (0.8)
41IaULt                   1584.6               35.4              2.7       2.0        2.0
inkstcq                    1082.2               24.2              4.8      -3.6       4.3
Servin                     1716.8               38.4              1.5      -2.6      -0.1
Ca.maqzcc          ~3696.7                        82.7              1.7      -9.5       5.0
G1s rnvetw                   891.6                19.9            -24.7     -21.3     -13.5
Eaq      of QIS 3/           Lg97.0               35.7              9.2      15.4       80
Irnut  of MIES 3(            1760.0               39A             -19.9     -12.5       2.0
&ah Nht1aml Savisp            615.8               13.8            -35.7       5.3      -11.0
FaWUJ FIN  (C    Cawm)
(dlmZ)                          Z Of GOP
Actualta                                    l
_91                                 1981 1i98              W
cr em n                      48598.8     6259.1     1098.0         20.4      20.0      19.1
Q'M= eitues                  5832.1      8.48.1     12715.0        24.5      27.0      22.1
Crren defd',                -973.3      -2189.0    -W17.0          -4.1      -7.0      -3.0
C*ptal emddre                744.9      1084.9       647.0         3.1       3.5       1.1
OveraU defid               -1718.2      -3273.9    -2364.0         -7.2    -10.5       -4.1
M ,            AND m    UES
1961      1982      L983
MmW and Quad Many                                          M64.9    857.4   1400.LO
B.t CCait to Pbic Setor                                          3763.6    787.7   1=52.2
Rsi1t m Private Se3r 142.4    1931.1    2881.8
0--- Ia    or Indmc &=be=)
amd QuA M=y (as z of Gop - uetw prce)                        19.5      25.7      24.3
Can    Prc TIex (1975 - liD)                                     1813.1    2487.9    4375.3
Amual _erce0aue dmr a  in:                                       38.1      37.2      75.9
-Prie 1i                                                      62.4      108.5      30.0
BUc lldSt t ieh1c Str                                             32.3       43.9      49.2
}.k C.iit to Pvate SWO=r
NM, ALt ccveruim to dlmzz In tids ta         weble     at it. acp ewhe  ate puewaWza
dn* ith - p avera.
1/ Wlrl-admaL   nx   bon szarai  tazrcce1W azd slmisd be
-p           udtL  
2/ AC   *t orn;          a_s  a ez          at fetor  auc ad sd    c add da td th
ewlii  aEf net irwH-  t    ad Pszidb.
3/ Uedm an lulam of E  aya endm   Vaich am wta reliable tbm naiomd azlts data.



- 30 -
ZA= -    c   DEo=
UUIO P A1A!    OUMU 1W31)                                19i1 imi  im 19
bPm        d mal al   _ S          21853      18330      15.3    12.6
CI .dgha Ngdmo"  F.0.L          (2..a2   (1469.9)   (U.4.)   (132.3)
_,c al    s MI _gyum               =2.       2300.6  D M.3  aXD.9
0l iddu  Ibsmam  1F.O.L         (16724    (304    (12U3.3)   (U122)
gw   Mod  (em,)                    -7.A        -3.5       4.8      -1.4
C,w  A                             -4t7.7    -672.1     -9.8    .49.5
afttL son" (MO)                     244       247.4      161.2      168.9
Fig& Gr.L (MC)                     *2LL      -165.      -1.        -m2.6
-pwo (Om) ad              =
ad Qamid                          -1.0    -147.4        704        UJ
IM Aglams                           3.         18.5          
OUur Womqe.4                                  6 .2         6.9      518.5
Ow. inan   ImgmIImL
C- . Imcm                         .4.Z       U3.2       35.3      55.6
m   PA.                        (VUWU)    t S I z1z
ht 24, l9g92ebmm  2. 19              2.5        0.48       0.375
Pm.tY 22. 19W4m  11, 11              3.0        0.33       0.262
km  19. inSl.6pi  1, 1               5.62       0. Ls     O.5
S    er 12, 191g'/                  5JJ         0049       0.03362
(23.S3)    (O.)
rFwu  2a. l6 It                     33.0        0.03       0.023
*amb   IS (=mg)                  o.         0.        0.025
1m                                   0.86
mg1                                  1.73P
1960                                 LIow
isa                                  4.384
1910                                 5.750
188                                 12.w
kImmi,s ad r.1                     1646.LI   U95.1      153        12B6.9
00..                               3921       304.0      2014      236.2
3-Lz.2      994      1154I      123.1
tML=     As dE De- 31, 15>, I11U. t=S
P3*1  D. i2L        -                              4393
mxr _mcmoc"                                         235
7hral swstmkqG 623.bgM                             'uN
Ctab lIc t.    .    -U13.9M  2/
ww         31, 19M., MU. 3)
>      _gu a Km                                     360.1
adishn_ma                                           190.7
f 1    Sqb        2. 19, ,ZU 1U         a     tism  l d Mi  .w
zIsm, O= is am dMtfal m   ad a km    -  MO. din. to
APaI9 -1



-31 -
ARIEX 1
Pae 1 of 2
SIS  OF BAC CROUP SPTCS 3 ZAE
A. srAMM  OF  K  WANS AND IA MA,a       S (As of March 31, 1985)
loan or
Credit   Year                                            Ammmt In TUS$ Mllion
Nimber   Sine    Borrower                            Bank     IDA       Uxihied1
Prior
to J1n    Congo &    Trasport               91.58 2/
1960     Otrac      Tnfrastructure
(Oe lom RFbly Dishised                               10D.00
Stmi Credits Pully Disbursed                                  200.34
796     1978      ZAIRE      01i Palm                          9.00          6.66
902     1979      ZAIE      Railwys                           20.O0          5.30
998     1980      ZAIRE      Fifth Dev. Pinance               18.50          2.94
1040     1980      ZAIRE     Snallblder Maize                  11.00         7.02
1089     1981      ZAIRE     lllu woagp  Sugar                 26.40         4.31
1152     1981      ZAIE        ngo-K     Techical Assistance   2.90          1.09
1180     1982      ZAIRE     a      M. 1 Ia                    26.00         16.96
1224     1982      ZAIRE     Shba Po1w  System    a1ltan  19.00              11.64
1241     1982      ZAIE      Water Supply II                   1800          8.63
1244     1982      ZAIRE     Aiature T.A.                       5.00         3.38
1264     1982      ZAIRE     SecOid CottM                      11.30         10.52
1273     1982      ZAIRE     Sith MC                           21.50        12.68
1290     1982      ZA7E      Righiy V                          43.50        21.28
1325     1983      ZAIR        rth East Rural DLaelpment       13.00         10.57
1335     1983      ZAIRE     Ports XebaMl-lat                  25.00        22.24
1336     1983      ZAIRE     Gecamines TJL                      7.00         5.62
1409     1983      ZAIRE     Petroleu  Sector T4.A              4.50         4.05
1421     1984      ZAIE      Ruizi.    Hydroelectric           15.00         12.97
1475 3/  1984      ZAIRE     Railmays II                       26.00        26.0D
1492     1984      ZAE       Seventh IET                       36.00        35.87
1519 3/  1985      ZAIRE     Educatin Tehnical Assistc          9.00         9.00
1540 3/  1985      ZAIRE     T21inl  Agricultural Deelopment    12.50        12.50
Total (less    lln)                        191.58   580.44        251.23
- of which has been repaid                 135.44      2.39
Tbtal now outstanding:                      56.14    578.05
Aimmt sold:                     54.47
of vich bas been repid        54.47
Total now bid by Bank and MA                56.14   578.05
Total Ulndisbrsed:                           0       251.23       251.23
1/ US dDIlar ammxnts for credits 1089-ZR and oraxds are conputed at the rate of Credit
-~gotiatin  dates.
2/ G    nteed by tde Kinigon of Belgimn.
3  Signed it not yet effective.



-32-
Pa 2 of 2
B. SrAiME  OF IE DCWINBE 1    (As of Marih 31, 1985)
Fiscal                           Type of            Amount in US$ Mllcas
,Year    Obio                     BuiesUB Fut                            Total
197',   Sockt FinanciAre de      MFV                  -     0.76    0.76
rlte]opp-- (SCFILE)
1979    Zaire Giif Oil Comany    ml pro&xtim        2.50      -      2.50
& epi. CaMny
1979    Zaire Petroleu Oupmny   Oil pYrducim        1.61      -      1.61
& eZpl. CacWay
1983   INd-SuId Trdustrie-
RSIFF QGM, for stdies
m an nuidni project                       0.23      -      0.23
1984    SoDtig FiYnArEie de                           -     0.5      0.54
r, ect      (SaFE)
1985 1/ Socfti TePtle de         Texile Copmy    6.25    0.53    6.78
de Kisangai
1985 1/ Company in fomti         (bttcc Fanug         -     0.10    0.10
1985 2/ Grands HT tels du Zaire    Hotel  ympiy    15.00      -    15.00
Total gross coudtnmt                       25.59    1.17   26.76
Less repayme=                               436       -      4.36
Pied by IFC                                21.23    1.17   2l.40
1/Appved by IE's Board ca April 4,1985
2/ Approved by IF's Boad on April 16, 1985



- 33 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Appraisal Mission:              June/July 1984
(b)  Co-financiers Meeting:          March 4, 1985
(c)  Post-Appraisal Mission:         March 1985
(d)  Negotiations:                   May 1985
(e) Planned date of Effectiveness:  October 1985
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
The Governement would:
(a) produce, by March 1 each year, a rolling five-year comprehensive
higbway program, covering the current year, and a review of
implementation of the previous year's activities; such programs would
be based on realistic forecasts of the availability of local and
foreign funds, and on economic criteria satisfactory to the
Association (para.32);
Cb) in respect of any new investment or sub-project estimated to cost in
excess of $5.0 million equivalent, furnish to the Association a study,
the methodology of which shall be satisfactory to the Association, of
its technical and economic justification and including its financing
plan, and shall exchange views thereon with the Association prior to
including such investment or sub-project in the five-year rolling
program of the Bureau (para. 32); and
(c) starting in 1985, submit to the Association's approval, by November 30
each year, OR's annual work program, and would not modify agreed
programs without the Association's prior approval (para. 67).
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would, inter alia:
(a) maintain at all times gasoline and diesel oil prices above economic
costs, including full transport and distribution costs (para. 33);
(b) furnish, by December 31, 1985, its reconmmendations for road user
charges, exchange views on those, and thereafter maintain such charges
at levels sufficient to cover the cost of routine and periodic
maintenance of the road network to prevent its deterioration
(para. 33);



- 34 -                      ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) submit by December 31, 1985 an action program for regulating and
enforcing axle loads and, after exchanging views with the Association,
implement it promptly taking into account the Association's views
(para. 39);
(d) take all the necessary steps (including adjustments in gasoline and
diesel oil taxes) to: (i) provide OR each year with the funds
necessary to finance, at least, the road maintenance, repaving, bridge
and ferry works, technical assistance and training included in OR's
five-year rolling highway program; (ii) ensure that the needed funds
are provided, besides foreign contributions, by the road tax on
gasoline and diesel oil; (iii) ensure that yearly road tax proceeds
are never inferior to US$50.0 million equivalent (in mid-1986 terms);
and (iv) continue to transfer road tax proceeds directly to OR (para.
49);
(e) ensure that OR Ci) repay within one year from March 31, 1985 all its
local currency debt overdue by more than 90 days as of such date, and
(ii) pay its contractors according to relevant contracts (para. 50);
and
(f) carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
presented in Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreeement
(paras. 54 and 67).
Effectiveness Condition
A special condition of effectiveness Cpara. 49) would be the
establishment of an interministerial technical committee (including
OR) to review regularly the adequacy of the fuel tax level and propose
necessary adjustments.



-35-
ANNEX IV
page 1 of 1
Financing Plan of OR's 1986-88 Highway Program*
Total                        -          orelgu Auetm
Coet  Zaire- .ui              -     .         -      -       -      - 
OW    AMO     VWC   Prmae  OSAID  Japan   O.K.   IDA   Total
(i) Ratusi  and ftriodIc Haiateuee
Per.nael                      36.0   36.0
3qui  a*t renwel              50.0   15.0    6.0             2.1    5.0     3.0    4.0            14.9   35.0
Spare pwrt. for
*qu1t                   23.0    6.0    1.0             1.0    1.0      I.0    1.0           12.0   17.0
ferrie.                  5.0    0.9                    2.1                                   2.0    4.1
fuel and lubrticeut           24.0   24.0
Material.                     .4.0    3.0                                                         1.0    1.0
anuaa umat_mee                 6.0    3.0                           2.0                            1.0    3.0
*e.l inetments                15.0   15.0
(Ci) 3APetieg                       49.0   14.7   15.4    16.9                                                 34.3
(iLL) UrldX* Pregr_                   8.0    3.0                           0.65                   1.15   3.0    5.0
(IV) Ferry progra                    7.0    3.3                    2.3    0.5                            0.9    3.7
(v) Technical -2eaitase            1.L    3.6                            0.8                            6.71t  7.5
(Vi) Treiniag                       13.5    7.5    0.5      1.5   1.0    0.5      1.0           -      .1.5-   6.0
me"  Cet                     251.6  135.0   22.9    20.4   U.5   10.65    5.0    5.0    1.15  63.0  116.6
Coatingnc-es                  46.2   24.3    4.6      4.1   1.4             0.a                  12.0   23.9
Sub-total I                  299.6  L59.3   27.7    24.5   9.9   10.65    5.6    5.6    1.15  S5.0  140.5
(vii) 11_ roed conetructia
Xl_aeunIs-Uukauu              55.0   25.0            11.0  12.0                                          30.0
Akule-Comemne                 10,19          10.0                                                        30.0
ikedtgtshbe                          10.D   lO.u   _10.0
Sub-total U                   75.0 25.0   20.0    10.0  12.0                                             S0.0
Total                        374.0  184.3   47.7    42.5  21.9   10.65    5.S    5.6    1.15  55.0  110.5
* This financing plan was submitted by Government, following
the March 1985 co-financiers meeting. It does not reflect
changes or substitutions in individual contributions which
may have taken place since.
Only $5.9 million has been retained under the proposed project.



- 36 -
ANEX V
page 1 of 1
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method    Total
Project Element              ICB    LCB   Other   NA    Cost
-    -US$ million
I.   Road maintenance by Force Account
(i) Equipment                          22.86    -    -         -     22.86
(19.45)   -    -        -    (19.45)
(ii) Spare parts and tools
for roads and ferries              17.38    -     4.10    -      21.48
(14.77)   -    (3.50)   -    (18.27)
(iii) Materials                           1.54    -      -       -      1.54
(1.30)   -      -      -      (1.30)
(iv) Manual Maintenance                  1.54    -      -       -      1.54
(1.30)   -      -      -      (1.30)
II.  Bridge Repair and Maintenance        0.54   3.40   2.00   0.15    6.09
(0.43) (2.19) (1.19) (0.10)  (3.91)
III. Access Ramps for Ferries              -     2.12    -       -      2.12
-    (1.17)   -      -      (1.17)
IV. Technical Assistance, Consulting
services and office equipment
Ci) Technical assistance                 -      -             4.51    4.51
-      -      -    (4.06)  (4.06)
(ii) Consulting services                  -      -      -      2.29    2.29
-      -    (2.06)  (2.06)
(iii) Office equipment                    1.84    -      -       -      1.84
(1.56)   -      -      -      (1.56)
V.   Training
(i) Consulting services                  -      -      -      1.02    1.02
_      _      -    (0.90)  (0.90)
(ii) Fellowships                           -      -      -    0.63    0.63
-      -      -    (0.63)  (0.63)
(iii) Equipment and teaching materials    -       -     0.46    -       0.46
-      -    (0.39)   -      (0.39)
Total           45.70   5.52   6.56   8.60   66.38
(38.81) (3.36) (5.08) (7.75) (55.00)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts
proposed for financing by the Credit.



,-r  s10Je ^    ^--  4                                                       IBRD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16564 RI
et ,CHA   " nJ              CENTRA   RICAN REPUBLIC
,1~~~~~~~ S =,z,_ 
PEOPLE'6 FIEPUBLIC t r>K D*~t
-    E OF THE CONC0 G                                                                          uA
}_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NWA FCNO')
1   A*. r
. ,. -                      Z
I'       P T14, CONOANGOLA
* ~~~~~~~~~  BAG / ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~B
*        I      B~~~~~ADIJRNE
A -  n. i                         ANGOLA
MAY INS






