Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15196
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDITS 1608-ZR, A006-ZR, AND JAPANESE GRANT 2379-9-ZR)
DECEMBER 26, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AffB                       African Development Bank
CA                         Credit Agreement
EF                         European Development Fund
ERR                        Economic Rate of Return
GOZ                        Government of Zaire
IRR                        Internal Rate of Return
KF                         Kuwaiti Fund
KfW                        Kreditanstalt fur Wiederanfban (Germany)
LNTP                       Laboratoire National des Travaux Publics
MP                         Ministere du Plan
ODR                        Office des Routes
PCR                        Project Completion Report
PDG                        President Delegue General
PIP                        Public Investment Program
SAR                        Staff Appraisal Report
TA                         Technical Assistance
VOC                        Vehicle Operating Costs
VPS                        Vehicle per Day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
EXCHANGE RATES
Currency unit Zaire (Z)
Year/month                                 Zaire per US$
September 1980                                   1.87
June 1980                                        5.60
September 1983                                  25.00
February 1984                                   33.00
January 1988                                   120.00
January 1989                                   330.00
May 1990                                     2,000.00
December 1991                               64,000.00
May 1992                                   155,000.00
September 1992                           1,000,000.00
October 1993                             8,000,000.00
November 1993                           15,000,000.00



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 26, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Zaire
Sixth Highway Project (Credit 1608-ZR)
The Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Zaire: Sixth Highway Project (Credit 1608-
ZR, approved in FY85), prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The Borrower contributed
thoughtful comments in Part II. The credit for US$55.5 million was closed on December 31, 1993,
five years behind schedule. A total of US$48.6 million was disbursed. The project benefited from
a Special African Fund credit (US$29.5 million) and a Japanese Grant of Yen 600 million, the latter
being administered by the International Development Association (IDA).
The project objectives were: (a) to continue to consolidate the country-wide road program,
and (b) to strengthen the Road Administration's (ODR) management and training. The project had
four components: (i) financing for the purchase of equipment, spare parts, materials, and supplies;
(ii) bridge repair and maintenance and construction of ferry access ramps; (iii) technical assistance
and consulting services; and (iv) training. Initially, four-fifths of the credit amount was allocated to
procuring equipment, parts, materials and supplies.
The project became effective in May 1986. During the first two years training and
equipment was procured and ODR's Director General (DG) was changed twice. In 1988 the credit
was suspended with the exception of the Technical Assistance (TA) activities and contracts in
progress because of the Government's failure to provide counterpart financing for maintenance as
provided in the credit agreement. IDA conducted a technical audit of the ODR. As a result a new,
third, DG was appointed, who initiated organizational reform and reduced ODR personnel from
8000 to 2500, and the entire credit was restructured. The revised project also allocated substantial
monies to civil works, which were not part of the original project, and relied on maintenance by
private contractors. Numerous small-and medium-sized firms emerged to do the civil works.
A fourth DG was appointed in 1991. Under his tutelage the revised project was largely
implemented, including the organizational reforms, in spite of the emerging social unrest. Of the
civil works, nearly 70 percent were completed. Under the reorganization plan formulated by the
third DG, the equipment acquired was leased to the private sector and the ODR maintenance units.
Training and technical assistance was used more than originally envisioned due to the new
requirements after the reorganization. In 1993, the Bank suspended operations in Zaire, and then
closed its portfolio in the country; the remaining credit funds, US$6.9 million, were canceled. The
portfolio was closed because Zaire had fallen into non accrual status with the Bank and because of
deteriorating conditions in the country.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
This official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



2
The project's economic rate of return, calculated at appraisal as 39 percent overall, ranged
at completion from 29 to 51 percent for three roads, covering 8 percent of the final project cost.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as uncertain, and its institutional
development as substantial.
The main lesson learnt is the importance of project design. An institutional study of the
ODR was available at appraisal. During project preparation, IDA should have done, together with
the government, what it finally did in 1989: trigger a reorganization of the ODR and design the
entire project, including its institutional component, on that premise.
No audit is planned.
Attachment



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDITS 1608-ZR, A006-ZR, AND JAPANESE GRANT 2379-9-ZR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ....................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ...................................................                                               ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity                                               .1
2. Background                                                   .1
3. Project Objectives and Description                                         .3
4. Project Organization and Design                                          .3
5. Project Implementation                                             .4
6. Project Results .10
7. Project Sustainability .11
8. IDA Performance .12
9. Borrower Performance .13
10. Relations under the Project .14
11. Consultant and Expert Services .14
12. Project Documentation .14
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..............                                     ............... 15
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...................................................                               28
Table 1: Related Bank Credit ...................................................                            28
Table 2: Project Timetable ...................................................                              30
Table 3: Credit Disbursements ...................................................                           31
Table 4: Project Costs and Financing ...................................................                    35
Table 5: IDA  Contribution to ODR ...................................................                       36
Table 6: Project Indicators ...................................................                             37
Table 7: Status of Covenants ...................................................                            38
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources ...................................................                          40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






(i)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDITS 1608-ZR, A006-ZR, AND JAPANESE GRANT 2379-9-ZR)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sixth Highway Project in Zaire
financed with Credits 1608-ZR (IDA) in the amount of SDR 55.5 million and A006-ZR (Special
African Fund) in the amount of SDR 29.5 million which were approved on December 13, 1985,
and supplemented with Japanese Grant 2379-9-ZR in the amount of V 600 million, approved on
March 23, 1987. The Special African Fund and the Japanese Grant were fully disbursed.
The closing date for Credit 1608-ZR, initially scheduled for December 31, 1988, was postponed
four times, to be set finally at December 31, 1993. The Credit account was closed on May 20,
1994, in the context of the general cancellation of the Zaire portfolio, following the placement
of Zaire in non-accrual status on November 15, 1994. The undisbursed balance was SDR
6,907,931. Despite unusually trying circumstances, the project was a complete success.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III of the report were prepared by
the Infrastructure Operations Division, South-Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa
Region. The Borrower prepared Part II of this report.
The PCR is based inter alia on the Credit Agreement, Staff Appraisal Report,
correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, and internal IDA documents.






(ii)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDITS 1608-ZR, A006-ZR, AND JAPANESE GRANT 2379-9-ZR)
Evaluation Summary
Objectives
1.   The project was conceived in support of the Government's overall objective of providing
Zaire with reLiable and efficient communications between the major economic centers and
stimulating agricultural development by facilitating transport and marketing of agricultural
products. More specifically, as an integral part of the three-year program (1986-1988) of the
Office des Routes (ODR) in respect to 40,900 km of national and provincial highway systems,
the project sought to: (i) continue and consolidate the maintenance and rehabilitation program
for roads, bridges, and ferries begun under the five previous IDA-financed highway projects;
and (ii) strengthen ODR's administration and training capabilities.
Implementation
2.   The project received funding from two credits and one grant: IDA Credit 1608-ZR (SDR
55.5 million); Special African Fund Credit A006-ZR (SDR 29.5 million); and Japanese Grant
2379-9-ZR (Y 600 million, or approximately SDR 4 million). The two credits were signed
simultaneously in December 1985, and the Japanese Grant, in March 1987. The project became
effective on March 7, 1986.
3.   The Credit Agreement provided that the project would be completed in three years, and
the original closing date was December 31, 1988. This date was postponed four times, to be set
finally in November 1992 at December 31, 1993. During its first three years, the project
suffered severely from the lack of local financial contributions and poor management by ODR.
This situation led IDA to suspend the project from March 1988 until February 1990.
The reopening of the project was preceded by a technical audit of ODR, which called for an
extensive restructuring of ODR and modification of the project design, transferring road
maintenance activities from force account arrangements to contract with private enterprises, and
managing the fleet of equipment with financial independence from ODR The project did not
begin to make significant progress until after the successful restructuring of ODR, its effective
management, following the appointment of the fourth Zairian PDG in April 1991, and the actual
allocation of counterpart funds. In the end, project implementation took seven and one half
years, as against the originally planned three years.



(iii)
Results
4.   The project objectives were largely reached, despite its slow start, the serious upheavals
that affected Zaire in general, and the project in particular, and the general decline in economic
activity. During the latter three years of the project, results were generally satisfactory in terms
of various aspects of the project objectives: its overall management, the results achieved in road
maintenance by small- and medium-scale enterprises and by force account, rehabilitation work
carried out by large enterprises, and fleet management were all satisfactory. A ninety-two
percent completion rate was achieved for the IDA financed works, equipment and services,
which gained momentum in 1992 and 1993, despite the numerous problems that were
experienced, particularly in 1993. Maintenance work financed by counterpart funds made it
possible in 1991 and especially in 1992 to enter into subcontracting arrangements with more
than 100 local enterprises involving more than 21,000 km of roads.
5.   Implementation of the restructuring effort made it possible to increase the productivity of
ODR's Zairian staff, which was reduced from 8,000 to 2,500 in 1991. This reform opened up
the public works market in Zaire based on competitive bidding, making it possible to promote
more than 100 small- and medium-scale enterprises involved in public works, and to create
15,000 new jobs, absorbing some of the staff affected by the rehabilitation of ODR. Technical
assistance used by ODR for routine management and training of local staff was drastically
reduced, with a decline in the number of experts from 67 in 1986 to 15 at the end of October
1993. Equipment management improved by becoming financially independent from ODR as
part of the reform. The condition of the highway system clearly improved between 1990 and
1992. During this two-year period, for the 23,140 km road network, eighty-eight percent of
which are earth roads, the percentage of roads in poor condition declined from fifty-five percent
in 1990 to under twenty-nine percent at the end of 1992. In addition, the percentage of roads in
very good condition increased from zero percent in 1990 to sixteen percent at the end of 1992.
Sustainabilitv
6.   From the institutional standpoint, the project facilitated the restructuring of ODR, which
was transformed during project execution from a cumbersome, unproductive organization since
1988 into a relatively lean and efficient institution with a highly motivated staff.
7.   The project was suspended for almost two years, and was nearly canceled without
reaching its objectives, due to lack of adequate local counterpart funds required for ODR's
operation. The subsequent release of approximately US$5 million per month in counterpart
funds made it possible to save the project and achieve tangible results. Near the end of
the project, Zaire's deepening financial crisis sharply reduced the value of the local contribution
and jeopardized the sustainability of the project's accomplishments. Scheduled to close on
December 31, 1993, the Sixth Highway Project was expected to be taken over by a highway
sector rehabilitation project with a view to building upon the project's accomplishments.
The deterioration of the country situation and disabling environment for project implementation,



(iv)
and consequently the lack of counterpart funds, are therefore a threat to the sustainability of
the project achievements and even the survival of ODR, which for the past two years has relied
almost exclusively on IDA support. The efficiency resulting from ODR's reorganization could
thus be compromised, and  without the required  assistance  and  counterpart funds,
the rehabilitated highway system and fleet of equipment, now being managed profitably, might
soon revert to a state of chronic deterioration. ODR's equipment fleet could very well be
confiscated by companies who have not been paid, or even by unpaid ODR staff.
Conclusions and Lessons Leamed from the project
8.   The availability of counterpart funds, effective management of the Zairian implementing
agency even in an adverse political environment, and the use of contracting with private
enterprises to perform as much work as possible were found, as in previous similar projects, to
be the key factors to success.
9.   Experience acquired from project implementation suggests that a certain degree of
flexibility combined with careful supervision should be built into projects that involve both
complex implementing agencies and considerable infrastructure investments. The design of this
project underwent considerable change in the context of ODR's reorganization, with a shift in
financial resource allocation priorities, from procurement of new equipment and execution of
works on force account to civil works carried out by private enterprise. As it happened, this
change met with few obstacles as a result of IDA's perseverance through a tightened supervision
effort, the Borrower's cooperation, and an ongoing constructive dialogue between the two
parties. The restructuring of ODR within the overall framework of structural adjustment and
privatization already initiated by IDA, was successfully carried out in less than a year thanks to a
bold PDG who implemented it and a skilled PDG who consolidated it. Its results were notable,
for ODR and the highway system, as well as for Zaire's economy in general, and private sector
development in the construction industry in particular. The success of ODR's restructuring
should set an example for the reform and restructuring of a number of public enterprises in other
developing countries. The five previous IDA highway projects established ODR as the national
institution for maintenance of Zaire's national and regional highway network, and achieved the
overall physical objectives fairly well. The works were mainly carried out on force account
basis. ODR had, however, quickly turned into an over-staffed, over-equipped and inefficient
public organization especially after 1988, and, therefore, became an ideal target for the
privatization and structural adjustment program.






1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDITS 1608-ZR, A006-ZR, AND JAPANESE GRANT 2379-9-ZR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Project Name              Sixth Highway Project
-    Credit Nos.               1608-ZR, A006-ZR (Special African Fund),
and 2379-9-ZR (Japanese Grant)
-    RVP Unit                  AF3 (South-Central and Indian Ocean Department)
Country                   Zaire
-    Sector                    Transport
-    Subsector                 Highways
-    Implementing Agency       Office des Routes (ODR)
2.   Background
2.1  Development of the transport sector is vital to the economic growth in Zaire, given the
country's size (2.3 million km2) as well as its unevenly distributed population and economic
activities. The combination of river and rail transport is the most critical component of Zaire's
transportation system, providing approximately 15,000 km of navigable waterways and
5,000 kmn of railways in several unconnected n-tworks. Most of Zaire's 150,000 km of roads, of
which only 2,500 km are paved, were built to provide local access and feed into the rail and
river network. However, road transport had continued to grow over the years while river and
rail transport remained relatively stagnant.
2.2  Zaire's transport sector has been greatly affected by the economic and political problems
of the country. The basic transport infrastructure has suffered from a lack of spare parts and
fuel as well as insufficient maintenance and investment.  This situation has led to an
accumulation of obsolete, unreliable equipment and facilities that translate into poor service and
high transport costs.
2.3  Private investment and foreign aid in Zaire have virtually disappeared as a result of
the incessant economic and political upheavals which have affected the country since the onset



2
of the political transition process in early 1990, in particular the looting in September 1991 and
January 1993 and the Government's failure to meet its debt service obligations vis-a-vis most
donors and the WIF. Zaire continued, however, to honor its debt service obligations vis-a-vis
the Bank through May 1993 and to provide counterpart funds to high priority ongoing Bank
operations under very difficult circumstances.   As a result of the decline in project
implementation conditions and accumulated arrears outstanding with the Bank, the latter
suspended all disbursements to Zaire on July 15, 1993 and canceled non-performing projects in
Zaire's portfolio following the placement of Zaire in non-accrual status on November 15, 1993,
and leaving only one project account in the human resource sector open by April, 1994.
Sector Strategy and Development Objectives
2.4  The primary development objectives in the sector were to proyide reliable and efficient
communications between Zaire's principal centers of economic activity, and to stimulate
development of the agricultural sector by facilitating transport and marketing of agricultural
products.
2.5  With a view to meeting these objectives, the sector's principal needs identified over
the years were: (i) rehabilitation and maintenance of existing infrastructure and equipment; (ii)
strengthening of the financial and management capabilities of the public agencies responsible for
the sector; and (iii) development of qualified human resources and incentive systems for the
benefit of suppliers and users of transport services.
2.6  In the roads subsector, the Government developed a three-year highway plan for
the period 1986-1988 following a March 1985 meeting of donors involved in the sector. This
program provided the basis for the Sixth Highway Project and encompassed:  (i) routine
maintenance of the entire highway system and scheduled maintenance of unpaved roads,
including the ongoing operations of ODR; (ii) resurfacing of paved roads; (iii) a subprogram for
bridges and ferries; (iv) construction of new paved roads; (v) technical assistance, consulting
services, and office equipment; and (vi) training. The total program cost was estimated at
US$374.8 million (including approximately US$190.5 million in foreign exchange).
Organization of the Highway Subsector
2.7  ODR is the public agency responsible for the maintenance and construction of Zaire's
national highway system, and is an operationally and financially autonomous agency under
the authority of the Ministry of Public Transport.



3
3.   Project Objectives and Description
3.1  Objectives. The project was designed to support the Government's overall objective to
provide Zaire with an effective and reliable communications systems. Specifically, the project
sought to: (i) continue and consolidate the maintenance and rehabilitation program for roads,
bridges, and ferries begun under the five previous IDA-financed highway projects; and
(ii) strengthen ODR's administration and training capabilities.
3.2 Description. The project, which was intended to be implemented over three years, was
inter alia designed to cover certain components of ODR's comprehensive three-year (1986-88)
program in respect of 40,900 km of the national and provincial highway system. The following
components were included: (i) support for routine and periodic maintenance on force account
via ODR's procurement of equipment and spare parts (30 percent and 50 percent respectively of
the requirements for the three-year period), materials and supplies (asphalt, structural steel for
bridges, and galvanized steel for culverts); (ii) bridge repair and maintenance (50);
(iii) construction of ferry access ranWs (10); (iv) strengthening of ODR's management through
technical assistance (36 man-years), consulting services (135 man-months), and office
equipment (telex, fixed and mobile telephones, computers, etc.); and (v) training.
4.   Project Organization and Design
4.1  The project was conceived as a continuation of the five preceding highway projects.
Much of identification and preparation took place during the supervision of the Fifth Highway
Project which was completed in 1987. ODR was the implementing agency.
4.2  Under the circumstances prevailing during the identification phase, the project was well
designed, with a clear understanding of its different components by the various parties involved.
The roles and responsibilities of the partners in the project were also clear and well defined.
This helped facilitate supervision to a certain degree, and enabled the parties to deal more
effectively with the sensitive problems faced during project implementation.
4.3   Under the project, the civil works for routine and periodic maintenance were to be carried
out largely on force account basis by ODR rather than by private enterprise. Accordingly, it
was proposed that the project's largest component should be devoted to providing ODR with
construction equipment and spare parts.  The project did not initially provide for any
restructuring of ODR nor were any particular efforts aimed at private sector development. This
approach was justified during project preparation by the very limited capacities of the Zairian
construction industry.
4.4 Because of the financial and management problems experienced during project
implementation, it became essential to restructure ODR and modify project design, thus limiting
the force account activities and relying primarily on private enterprises for the civil works.
The distribution of funds allocated to the project was modified to reflect subcontracting



4
arrangements for performing the works. The Government's failure to make its committed
contribution to the project, in particular ODR's operating costs, led IDA to suspend the project
from March 1988 until February 1990. The project did not begin to make tangible progress until
after ODR's restructuring was completed, and the local counterpart funds were actually
allocated, i.e., over the two and a half year period ending July 1993, when the Bank suspended
all disbursements to Zaire.
5.   Project Implementation
Effective Dates of the Credits
5.1  Credit 1608-ZR, in the amount of SDR 55.5 million, was based on the Staff Appraisal
Report. (SAR). Without any alteration to the SAR, the project also benefited from two
additional sources of financing: Credit A006-ZR (Special African Fund) in the amount of
SDR 29.5 million, and Japanese Grant 2379-9-ZR administered by IDA in the amount of
1 600 million. The Japanese Grant was specifically earmarked for the needs of the Bas Zaire
region. Credits 1608-ZR and A006-ZR were governed by two different agreements signed on
the same date (December 13, 1985) and became effective on March 7, 1986, approximately one
month after the scheduled date. The Japanese Grant was signed on March 23, 1987, and went
into immediate effect. Disbursement priorities were given to the Special African Fund and
Japanese Grant, which were fully disbursed as of June 30, 1991, and December 31, 1991,
respectively.
Implementation Duration
5.2 The Credit Agreement for Credit 1608-ZR, provided that the project would be
implemented in three years, with a closing date of December 31, 1988. For reasons specified
later in this report, the closing date was postponed four times, and in November 1992 was set
irrevocably at December 31, 1993. However, approximately six months before this limit date,
the project was interrupted by the Bank's general suspension operations in Zaire effective
July 15, 1993. Accordingly, project implementation ultimately spanned seven and one half
years, as against the originally planned three years.
Project Management
5.3 Until 1991, the project suffered considerably from the lack of adequate Zairian
counterpart funds and unstable management of the project's implementing agency.
5.4 Frequent changes in ODR's top management significantly affected the progress of
the project. During the five preceding highway projects financed by IDA, the ODR had always
been headed by an expatriate President Delegue General (PDG).  In 1987, during
implementation of the Sixth Highway Project, the Government decided to appoint a Zairian
national as PDG. Accordingly, after the November 1987 departure of the expatriate PDG,



5
the first Zairian PDG took office but remained in this position for only eight months as his
performance was deemed unsatisfactory.  The second Zairian PDG was then appointed;
remained in office for only 12 months, following a performance judged to be equally disastrous.
5.5  The third Zairian PDG  served from  September 1989 until April 1991.   Under
the leadership of this PDG, formerly head of SNCZ and SNEL, where his accomplishments had
been considerable, ODR underwent a remarkable restructuring effort. Within a period of about
one year, this resulted in: (i) a drastic reduction in staff, from more than 8,000 in 1989 to less
than 2,400 in 1991; and (ii) a large-scale transfer of road maintenance and construction activities
from ODR's force account unit to small-, medium-, and large-scale private construction
enterprises. This far-reaching reform of the project implementing agency was clearly much-
needed "maj or surgery," and largely benefited its subsequent operations. This reform, spurred
by IDA's supervision missions through the technical audit of ODR, was also consistent with
the concept of privatization which the Bank had already initiated with public enterprises and
promoted through the structural adjustment process in Zaire. However, the reorganization of
ODR so monopolized management attention that the monitoring and supervision of field
activities was neglected. As a result, in 1990 and during the first quarter of 1991, few road
maintenance activities were carried out; the condition of the highway network had also
dramatically worsened, especially after nearly three years of insufficient maintenance stemming
from a lack of local counterpart funds. Poor road conditions had become an increasing
impediment to the agricultural trade and to the mobility of goods and people. The situation was
the source of political debate and served to damage the reputation among highway users and the
general public alike of ODR, which became known as the "office des trous" ("Potholes" agency)
because of the countless potholes in the road network. This, too, was a major concern to IDA's
supervision missions.
5.6  In April 1991, a new PDG was appointed for ODR and was still in office at the writing of
this report (June 1994). This PDG came from private business circles and had no experience in
highway management. He wisely chose to build on the accomplishments of his predecessor, i.e.,
restructuring and local financing, while addressing the primary failing of not keeping abreast of
field activities. The management style of this PDG is reflected in his initial accomplishments:
(a)  Limited changes in key staff positions;
(b)  Systematic field visits throughout Zaire's different regions.  These visits gave
the PDG a basic knowledge of the highway sector, and enabled him to follow up on
the activities of his field staff and contractors and to personally take stock of
the condition of the highway network and the views of the users;
(c)  Reactivation of a few ODR maintenance units, and expansion of road maintenance
by small-, medium- and large-scale enterprises to foster expansion of the best of
these enterprises;
(d)  Large-scale diffusion of information on project activities by: (1) installing signs on
a number of highways indicating the types of work in progress, source of funding,
names of the enterprise and the consulting and supervising firms; and (2) providing



6
a continuous stream of information to the Zairian press on ODR's activities;
(e) Recruitment of a team of international consultants to manage ODR's fleet of
equipment and materials, which were then being leased to private road construction
firms and ODR maintenance units.
Project Implementation Phases
5.7  Apart from the management changes experienced by the implementing agency, the project
included the following five phases:
5.8 Phase one (1986-July 1988): Project startup. The effectiveness of the credits in March
1986 was followed by the preparation of the bidding documents, which placed priority on
equipment procurement and training programs. Preparation of invitations to bid for equipment
and spare parts required a lengthy period of time. Disbursement priorities were given to
the Special African Fund and the Japanese Grant.  Invitations to bid were divided into
numerous lots, only a few of which received IDA's no-objection. Most of the lots were never
ultimately evaluated as the project was suspended from March 1988 until February 1990.
The equipment delivered was held at the port of Matadi for two years, until the fourth Zairian
PDG of ODR was appointed.
5.9  Phase two (March 1988-February 1990): Project suspension. The Credit Agreement
required the Government to ensure financing for road maintenance activities and structural
expenditures for ODR, in the amount of US$5 million per month, through the highway tax
mechanism. This mechanism yielded disappointing results because of the Government's decision
not to raise fuel prices. Failure to meet the terms of the Credit Agreement led to the suspension
of the credit in March 1988, with the exception of financing for the technical assistance
contracts in progress. During that period, IDA made another exception, in agreement with
the Government, in order to finance a thorough technical audit of ODR. The recommendations
of this audit, began in April 1989, were based on two findings: (i) that the Zairian highway
system was inadequate, fragile and in such poor condition that considerable financial efforts
were required to restore it to condition permitting subsequent maintenance; and (ii) that ODR,
with major improvements to its organization, management and procedures, was the appropriate
institution to continue implementing the project given the difficult environment in Zaire and
the variety of tasks yet to be carried out.
5.10 Phase three (1990): Reorganization of ODR. The conditions set by IDA for project
resumption required that ODR obtains domestic financing, placing this within a broader context
of the reorganization of the enterprise in accordance with the overall concept of structural
adjustment and privatization already initiated by IDA. Since sufficient agreement on financing
and ODR's reorganization had been reached, the project was reactivated in February 1990.
However, 1990 was devoted to both the reorganization and preparation of documents for
implementing the civil works component of the project. As the first works contracts were
signed only in December 1990, and because priority had been placed on consulting services



7
being financed substantially from the Special African Fund, IDA credit disbursements were low
in 1990.
5.11 The project's design and, in particular, the allocation of resources, changed considerably
as a result of the reorganization. While the Credit Agreement had provided that SDR 54.3
million of the available SDR 85 million (Credits 1608-ZR and A006-ZR) should be devoted to
equipment and spare parts and SDR 3.9 million to civil works, the August 1990 project revision
allocated SDR 44.1 million to civil works, limiting equipment expenditure to SDR 25 million.
The Japanese Grant, in the amount of approximately SDR 4 £nillion (about i 600 million) had
already been committed to the procurement of equipment. The higher priority placed on civil
works and the reduced emphasis on equipment was justified by:
(a)  the need to undertake an extensive work program, after four years of inadequate
ODR presence in the field;
(b)  the sizable amount of other financing which ODR had obtained (from other donors)
for the procurement of equipment, decreasing the importance of IDA's involvement
in this connection; and
(c)  the priority  placed  on  efficient management  of existing  equipment over
the procurement of new equipment.
5.12 Phase four (1991-July 1993): Civil works. These works involved catch-up of periodic
maintenance on the asphalt roads and the modernization of earth roads. During this period,
expenditure for all project activities amounted to approximately SDR 40 million, or just under
45% of total project resources (SDR 89 million).
5.13 The allocation of resources was revised twice during this phase, the most active in
the project. The reorganization resulted in a considerable increase in 1992 and 1993 in
expenditures for consulting services, primarily involving the monitoring of road works and
technical assistance for road maintenance supervision activities.  In addition, the share of
equipment and spare parts was increased in 1993 to meet urgent equipment maintenance needs.
These requirements could not be met by the rroject before the cancellation by the Bank of the
undisbursed portion of the credit.
5.14 Phase five (July-November 1993): General suspension bv the Bank of operations in
Zaire. Announced on July 15, 1993, the suspension immediately curtailed all financing, except
for consultant services. The cancellation went into effect on November 15, 1993. During this
period, ODR continued the civil works already in progress.  Although acknowledged by
the supervision consultants, these civil works were no longer eligible for payment by IDA.
5.15 In summary, after five years of fits and starts, from 1986 until 1990, the project was
finally in a position to be effectively implemented in 1991, as a result of the successful
reorganization of ODR and the release of counterpart funds. Due to the general suspension by
the Bank of activities in Zaire, however, project implementation was ended prematurely, a few



8
months before scheduled closing. The pace of works in 1992 and the first half of 1993 suggests
that all resources would probably have been fully used if the project could have continued until
its scheduled closing date of December 31, 1993.
Project implementation by categorv
5.16 Categorv 1: Equipment and Spare Parts. As mentioned above, the budgets allocated to
this category were revised downward during project implementation. Final expenditure under
this category was approximately SDR 28.8 million as against the initially planned SDR 58.3
million (for the Japanese Grant and Credits 1608-ZR and A006-ZR combined). All equipment
financed by the project was used for road maintenance. A total of 597 equipment units were
distributed among the regions in Zaire under the project. Since ODR's reorganization in 1991,
equipment has been leased to private enterprises and ODR maintenance units.
5.17 Category 2: Civil Works. In addition to relatively minimal expenditure in 1988 on
repairs for ferries and ports, disbursements under this category primarily involved road works in
the amount of SDR 34.4 million as against the SAR estimate of SDR 3.9 million. The civil
works programs mainly consisted of road works begun in 1990 and 1991 under seven different
contracts with private enterprises:
(a)  Periodic maintenance of old asphalt roadways
Road                         Length (km)             Status at closing (%!
Goma-Sake                        24.4                     100
Cite Verte-Seka Malembe         183.5                     100
Kinshasa-Kenge-Kikwit           227.0                      86
Mbuji-Mayi-Mwene-Ditu            78.0                      25
Lubumbashi-Kasumpalesa           93.0                     100
(b)  Rehabilitation of earth roads
Road                          Length (km)            Status at closing (%)
Kamanga-Mbujy-Mayi              170.0                       21
Goma-Beni                      361.0                        44
5.18 Category 3:  Consultant and Expert Services.  Total expenditure in this category
amounted to SDR 17.1 million, well over double the initially planned SDR 7.7 million.
Furthermore, this exceeds one and one half times ODR's allocation in this category for the entire
three-year program (1986-1988). The considerable overruns can be explained by:
(a)  the extension of the project period with respect to technical assistance (eight
instead of three years initially projected) and the supervision of the civil works
(30 rather than the 18 months initially projected);



9
(b)  the technical audit aimed at ODR's reorganization;
(c)  the emergence in 1991 of new technical assistance requirements in order to build
upon the results of the reorganization for maintenance supervision and fleet
management.
5.19 Project expenditure on consultant and expert services was as follows by category:
Category                        Thousands of SDRs         %
Technical assistance (direct contracts  7,849            46
and consulting firms)
Works Supervision                      5,061             30
Consulting services under the project  3,734             22
Future project consultant services      424                2
Total                                 17,068             100
5.20 Category 4: Telecommunications and Computers. Expenditure under this category
amounted to only SDR 252,000. Initially at SDR 1.2 million, this had been revised downward
in 1990 to a total of SDR 600,000. ODR nonetheless managed to procure adequate computers,
cellular telephones, telexes, etc.
5.21 Category 5: Training. Training programs provided in the context of the project reached
their objectives and were largely executed in 1987 and 1988. A total of approximately SDR 1.4
million, or nearly ninety percent of the projected amount, was spent on these programs.
5.22 Project costs and disbursements. The project cost at the time of appraisal was estimated
at SDR 55.5 million. After adding the Special African Fund and the Japanese Grant, the total
amount allocated to the project was SDR 89 million. Tables 3, 4, and 5 of Part III of this report
summarize project costs, financing, and disbursements.  At the time of the suspension by
the Bank on November 15, 1993, SDR 82.1 rr;llion had been used, or approximately ninety-two
percent of the resources available for the project (SDR 89 million). These resources could
probably have been used in full had the project been pursued until the scheduled closing date of
December 31, 1993. As explained above, the allocations by category were revised to reflect'
the context of ODR's reorganization and the rate of disbursement, which was slow during
the early years of the project but increased drastically in 1991, 1992, and 1993 following ODR's
restructuring, management stabilization, the release of counterpart funds, and the execution of
the road works by private enterprises. The project used a special account whose disbursements
totaled US$8 million, which were applied to eligible expenditures involving different project
categories. No discrepancies have been noticed in this special account.



10
6.   Project Results
6.1  General results. The project objectives were ultimately largely achieved despite its slow
start, the serious upheavals that affected Zaire in general and the project in particular, and
the general decline in economic activity.
6.2  Generally, project management and the results during the latter three years were
satisfactory with respect to road maintenance by small- and medium-scale enterprises and by
force account, rehabilitation works carried out by large enwerprises, and fleet management.
ODR's performance reflected the caliber of the senior management team, particularly since April
1991. These results also justify and confirm the success of the restructuring of ODR, as an
approach for the reform and reorganization of most of the public enterprises, country conditions
permitting.
6.3  The project achieved a ninety-two percent completion rate for the works, equipment, and
services financed by IDA, gaining momentum in 1992 and 1993 despite the numerous problems
experienced particularly in 1993.  The high quality of the work performed by the enterprises
indicates that ODR carried out IDA's recommendations with respect to the quality and
sustainability of the works. In particular, the results obtained from a low-cost road construction
experiment known as "economy paving" were technically satisfactory, with costs of
approximately US$150,000 per km compared with an average cost of US$250,000 to
US$300,000 per km, and in certain cases up to US$1 million/km, for comparable roads
designed using conventional engineering studies. This innovative method should serve as an
example for similar Bank projects in the future.
6.4  Maintenance works financed by counterpart funds in 1991 and especially in 1992 enabled
ODR to enter into subcontracting arrangements with more than 100 local enterprises involving
more than 21,000 km of roads. During 1993, ODR was only able to execute a total work
volume of some US$5 million as of September 30, 1993, due to the depletion of liquidity which
prevented it from using the monthly allocation which the Government continued to pay
regularly, but which at that time represented only US$350,000 (instead of US$5 million), taking
into account the reduced value of the check.
6.5  Implementation of the restructuring effort made it possible to increase the productivity of
ODR's Zairian staff, which was reduced from 8,000 to 2,500 in 1991. This reform opened up
the public works market in Zaire, basing it on competitive bidding; thus it enabled the
promotion of more than 100 small- and medium-scale enterprises involved in public works and
the creation of 15,000 new jobs, therefore absorbing some of the staff affected by
the rehabilitation of ODR. Technical assistance used by ODR for routine management and
training of local staff was drastically reduced, with a decline in the number of experts from 67 in
1986 to 15 at the end of October 1993.
6.6  As part of the reform, financial independence from ODR improved the management of



11
equipment. The new private style of management showed that the level of renting equipment to
small- and medium-scale enterprises and force account activities could generate sufficient
resources for the purchase of spare parts and for equipment maintenance. The overall fleet of
98 bulldozers, 130 loaders, 192 graders, 660 trucks, etc. generated a turnover of US$ 19 mnillion
in 1992 alone, in comparison to virtually nothing prior to the 1991 reorganization.
6.7   At the close of the project in November 1993, ODR also had 137 ferries serving a number
of lakes, rivers, and streams in Zaire.
6.8  Finally, works performed by ODR in 1991 and 1992 amounted to US$ 187 million, clearly
improving the condition of the country's road network. During this two-year period, for the
23,140 km of the road network -- the majority of which are earth roads -- the percentage of
roads in poor condition declined from fifty-five percent in 1990 to under twenty-nine percent at
the end of 1992. In addition, the percentage of roads in very good condition increased from
zero percent in 1990 to sixteen percent at the end of 1992.
6.9  Internal Rate of Return (IRR). The SAR calculated IRRs for five road sections totaling
448 km which ODR proposed to rehabilitate, but which were ultimately not included in
the project. The iRRs, which varied in the range of 22-49%, were deemed satisfactory.
The IRRs were calculated for this report, using information provided by ODR, for three roads
financed by the project and which were fully completed at its close, totaling some 300 km.
These IRRs vary in the range of twenty-nine to fifty-one percent, which indicates that roads
included in the project were economically justified.
7.   Project Sustainability
7.1   At the time of the general suspension of Bank disbursements to Zaire in July 1993,
the project was well on its way to helping establish sustainable benefits for the Zairian
implementing agency and for Zaire's economy in general, by facilitating on an ongoing basis
the transportation of agricultural products and the mobility of goods and persons.  From
an institutional standpoint, the project facilitated the restructuring of ODR, which was
transformed during project execution from a cumbersome, unproductive organization into a
relatively lean and efficient institution with a highly motivated staff.
7.2  In addition, to build upon the results of the reorganization, ODR was to receive technical
assistance for some key enterprise activities in subsequent years. IDA had hitherto provided
financing for this type of assistance, absent that, the required skills would become more difficult
to obtain and the efficiency resulting from the reorganization could be compromised.
7.3  The project was suspended for just under two years, and was nearly canceled without
reaching its objectives, due to problems in obtaining local counterpart funds required for ODR's
operations.   The subsequent Government commitment to maintain its contribution of
approximately US$5 million per month in counterpart funds made it possible to reactivate



12
the project and achieve tangible results. Near the end of the project, however, Zaire's deepening
financial crisis sharply reduced the value of the local contribution and jeopardized
the sustainability of project achievement.  In theory, another highway sector rehabilitation
project was to take over the Sixth Highway Project at the end of 1993 (schedule closing) and
build upon its achievements. However, the deterioration of the state in Zaire, which has
abandoned responsibility for its essential functions due to the political transition process, and the
associated administrative paralysis, threatens the sustainability of the project results and even
the survival of ODR, which over the past two years has relied almost exclusively on IDA
support. Without the required assistance and financing, the rehabilitated highway network and
fleet of equipment -- now being managed profitably -- might soon revert to a state of chronic
deterioration. The equipment fleet could very well be confiscated by enterprises that have not
been paid by the Government or even by ODR staff themselves who have not received their
wages.
7.4  The latter years of the project realized benefits apart from financing which have enabled
progress towards privatization. Moreover, productive collaboration has developed between the
ODR and IDA in all areas of enterprise management, including programming, project design,
competitive bidding procedures, monitoring and supervision of performance, financial
management, and preparation of financial statements.  Without this cooperation, which
promotes a continuous improvement in ODR's working methods, its management quality may
decline.
8.   IDA Performance
8.1  Through the previous highway projects, IDA contributed greatly to the physical and
institutional development of Zaire's highway sector. Project identification and preparation tasks
had been carried out during the supervision phase of the Fifth Road Project with a view to its
continuation. For the Sixth Highway Project, negotiations, approval, signing of agreements,
and implementation of the project were relatively rapid, with few delays in terms of the
processing.  A number of risks potentially affecting the progress of the project had been
identified during project appraisal, including a decline in productivity of ODR staff following a
change in organization, fuel shortages, and insufficient counterpart funds.   Despite
the Government's assurances before the project began, the project suffered from the lack of
local resources as well as fuel, and from frequent changes in ODR management. Project
appraisal did not provide for catastrophic risks related to political and economic problems nor
for the liquidity crisis which Zaire subsequently experienced.
8.2  IDA maintained effective supervision throughout the project. This supervision, combined
with flexibility, application of corrective actions, and a continuous dialogue with
the implementing agency led, after the difficult years of the project, to the technical audit of
ODR, which brought about the successful reorganization of ODR and substantive attainment of
most of the project objectives.



13
8.3  In the context of structural adjustment and privatization of public enterprises promoted by
the Bank in Zaire, the original project design no longer was no longer acceptable. The project
had initially made no provision for any restructuring of ODR nor any particular efforts to
develop the private sector, Zaire's construction industry capacity was barely incipient when
the project was prepared.  Instead, the initial design of the project proposed to allocate
the largest component to providing ODR with construction equipment and spare parts, thereby
promoting the execution of the work on force account basis rather than by private enterprises.
8.4  This is an example of a project that might have conipletely failed or been closed or
canceled while in progress without any tangible results, due to growing unsustainability in the
absence of the required local contribution of resources and stable management at the national
implementing agency. Under the Bank "core approach" and portfolio reorientation, the design
of the project underwent significant change in the context of ODR's reorganization, with a shift
in financial resource allocation priorities from the procurement of new equipment and execution
of the work on force account basis to civil works by private enterprises. This change met with
relatively few obstacles as a result of IDA's perseverance, the executing agency's cooperation,
and an ongoing constructive dialogue between the two parties. ODR's reorganization was
carried out successfully in less than one year, and its results were surprising, both for ODR and
the highway network, as well as for Zaire's economy in general and private sector development
in the road construction industry in particular. The success of ODR's restructuring should serve
as an example for the reform and restructuring of public enterprises in Zaire and other
developing countries.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.1   During the first three years of the project, both the Government, which in particular failed
to meet its financial counterpart obligations, and ODR, with its inconsistent management, were
very weak performers.
9.2  This situation was turned around after the full-scale reorganization of ODR, its transition
to stable management, and the Government's regular payment to ODR of an allocation
equivalent to US$5 million per month. The reform completely transformed the operational
methods of ODR, whose performance became satisfactory despite an unfavorable political and
economic environment.
9.3  Before the 1990 reorganization, ODR's perforrnance was substandard in terms of both its
general functions and project implementation.  The reorganization was reflected in (i)
the definition of a priority highway program focusing on 23,000 km of highways handling ninety
percent of the traffic; (ii) the establishment of a monthly allocation equivalent to US$5 million
from the Government to ODR; (iii) the transfer of road maintenance activities to private
enterprise; (iv) the reduction of staff from 8,000 to 2,500 persons in 1991; (v) the establishment
of autonomous equipment management; and (vi) the allocation of eighty percent of
the resources obtained from domestic financing to road work, thereby limiting expenditure for



14
structural costs to twenty percent of these resources.  Through effective management of
the organization, ODR's performance was greatly improved and the disbursement of project
resources could have been fully achieved in 1993 had it not been for country developments
which resulted in the July 15, 1993 suspension.  The Government's performance under
the project also improved during this period with the payment of a sustained monthly allocation
to ODR, although the real value of this allocation declined as a result of the financial upheaval in
Zaire.
10.  Relations under the Project
10.1 Although the project went through a particularly difficult period, especially during
the first three years of implementation, relations between IDA and the implementing agency
remained good. These relations have been marked by a high level of confidence and cordial
understanding under the leadership of the latest PDG at the Office des Routes. This PDG was
also able to maintain positive relations with the consultants and enterprises, and promoted
effective cooperation between these two groups.
11.  Consultant and Expert Services
11. 1 As explained earlier in this report, expenditure for consultant services was much higher
than initially projected at project appraisal.  The considerable difference was explained by
the extended duration of the project (beyond the period planned) and by the new requirements
which arose from the reorganization of ODR. The services of consultants and experts involved
(i) the supervision of road maintenance work by consulting firms; (ii) technical studies; (iii) the
auditing of the equipment department; and (iv) technical assistants. In general, the selection of
consulting firms and individual technical assistance experts was adequate, and their performance
was satisfactory. In particular, staff from consulting firms responsible for supervising the civil
works were integrated within the ODR equipment department, and manned a coordinating unit
in Kinshasa and supervision teams for each site.
12. Project Documentation
12. 1 The project was implemented in conformity with the legal agreements signed by
the Government and IDA. The distribution of resources allocated to the different expenditure
categories was revised several times, by mutual agreement between the parties involved, to
reflect ODR's restructuring and the priority given to the execution of civil works by private
enterprises, with a commensurate decline in procurement of equipment and work on force
account basis. The Credit Agreement was amended to reflect the revised distribution of
financial resources. The basic documentation was standard for this type of project, including
supervision reports which were always complete and adequately prepared, as well as
the different studies and audits carried out during project execution. ODR also prepared a
project completion report and other technical and financial data which were very useful in the
writing of this report.



15
PROfECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROTECT
CREDITS 1608-ZR, A006-ZR, AN-D JAPANESE GRANT 2379-9-ZR
PART II: PROfECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(English translation)
1. Confirmation of Statistical Data
1.1   After analysis of the paper prepared as Part III, Zaire considers that Table 3 concerning
disbursements of the credit should be completed by taking into account the disbursements made
on April 21, 1994 on Credit 1608 ZR, or SDR 504,175.68. The undisbursed balance on Credit
1608 ZR, which has been canceled, is thus SDR 6,907,931.33.
1 2   For the rest, the Government confirms the statistical information contained in Part III of
the completion report prepared by the World Bank.
2. Comments on the Analvsis Contained in Part I (Project Review from the Viewpoint of the
Baank!
2.1   In general terms, the Government wishes to indicate formally its agreement with the
viewpoints and observations contained in the World Bank report. The comments that follow
concern specific points; moreover, they are in keeping with the relations "of trust and cordial
understanding," to which the World Bank report refers.
2.2   The undisbursed balance that was canceled on May 20, 1994, was SDR 6,907,931.33 and
not SDR 7,412,107 as indicated in the preface to the report (cf. fax message of May 20, 1994).
2.3   The World Bank rightly emphasizes (4.3, page 3; 5.11, page 7; and 8.3, page 13) the
reorientation of the project in 1990 and, in consequence, the emergence of SMEs, which have
proved themselves capable of doing the greater part of the highway maintenance work. This
intervention by the SMEs in the roadwork sector is an essential fact, which merits in-depth
analyses. As an initial approach, the reported success in this area is based on:
(a) the existence, in most of the regions of Zaire, of a high potential for private initiative,



1 5
which was underestimated prior to the development of World Bank operations in the area
of structural adjustment;
(b) the fact that the PDG (President Delegue General) of the enterprise is himself a
member of this circle of Zairian private sector and has shown his ability therein,
(c) the system of leasing the equipment to the enterprises established within the project;
(d) strict technical and financial supervision by the Office des Routes (ODR) supported by
appropriate technical assistance.
2.4   The Government takes formal note of the fact that the World Bank shares its concerns
about the sustainability of the results achieved in the event of a lengthy interruption of the
technical and financial support from intemational donors (8, page iv; and 7.3, page I1).
Nonetheless, the major risk concerning the stock of equipment is not exactly its confiscation by
enterprises not paid by the Government or even the very employees of ODR who may not have
received their wages; if a threat of confiscation exists, it could rather come from the development
of widespread insecurity and arbitrariness, an unlikely contingency that seems increasingly
improbable. Another risk that is not negligible might entail the "cannibalization" of broken-down
machines, that is, the use of their components to replace spare parts that are lacking for other
machines in better condition. This practice could lead to the gradual depletion of the stock of
equipment.
2.5   The equipment financed by the project numbers 597, and not 582 as indicated in 5.16,
page 8.
2.6   The data concerning the state of physical progress of the work contained in 5.17, page 8,
should be revised as follows:
(a)   Periodic maintenance of old asphalt roadways
Road                            Length (km)           Status at closing f%!
Goma-Sake                         24.4                     100
Cite Verte-Seka Malembe          183.5                     100
Kinshasa-Kenge-Kikwit            227.0                      86
Mbuji-Mayi-Mwene-Ditu             78.0                      25
Lubumbashi-Kasumbalesa            93.0                     100
(b)   Rehabilitation of earth roads
Road                            Length (km)            Status at closing (%)
Kananga-Mbuji-Mayi               170.0                     21
Goma-Beni                        361.0                     44



17
3 Review of Main Data Concemring the Implementation of the Project and Performance of the
World Bank during the Course of the Project
Review of Data
3.1   Duration of project implementation. The credit agreements signed in December 1985
provided that the project would be implemented in three years, with a planned closing date of
December 31, 1988. As a result of events affecting the implementation of the project, which will
be examined below, this date was postponed several times, and, in November 1992, the closing
date was set irrevocably at December 31, 1993. However, approximately six months before this
final deadline, the project was interrupted by the suspension of the World Bank operations in
Zaire, effective July 15, 1993. Accordingly, project implementation in the end required seven and
one half years, compared with the originally planned three years. It would have lasted eight years
without the July 1993 suspension.
3.2   Proiect implementation phases.  The course of the project can be described in five
successive phases:
(a) 1986 to February 1988: startup;
(b) March 1988 to February 1990: project suspension;
(c) 1990: reorganization of the Office des Routes;
(d) 1991 to July 1993: implementation of civil works; and
(e) July to November 1993 suspension of World Bank operations in Zaire.
3.3   Phase one (1986-July 1988) Project startup. The effectiveness of the credit occurred in
March 1986 and was followed by the preparation of the bidding documents; given the initial
design of the project, they were mainly concerned with equipment procurement and training
programs; the corresponding expenditures were made in 1987 and 1988; at the end of 1988, the
main part of the final expenditures of the project for the two aforementioned categories had
already been made.
3.4   Phase two (March 1988-February 1990) Project suspension.  The credit agreements
provided that the Government was to ensure financing for road maintenance activities and
operational expenditure for the ODR in the amount of US$5 million per month, through the road
tax mechanism; the foregoing did not yield the anticipated results because of decisions taken
elsewhere concerning freezing fuel prices; failure to meet this condition of the credit agreements,
together with ODR management problems, which arose at that time, resulted in the suspension of
the project in March 1988. Nonetheless, as an exception to the suspension, the technical
assistance contracts in progress were maintained; the World Bank also financed, in 1989, a
technical audit of the ODR, which was the starting point for the subsequent reorganization.



13
3.5   Phase three (1990) Reorzanization of ODR  The conditions set by the World Bank for
project resumption included domestic financing for ODR, although placing this within a broader
context of the reorganization of the enterprise. Since sufficient agreement on financing and ODR's
reorganization was reached, the project was reactivated in February 1990; however 1990 was
devoted to both the reorganization and the preparation of the tender documents for implementing
the "civil works" component of the project. The first work contracts were signed in December
1990; because of the priority placed at that time on the studies, the project disbursements were
low in 1990. In the context of this reorganization, a considerable change took place in the project
design. Whereas, in the initial design, a large part of the work was to be done on force account by
the ODR, the reorganization resulted in assigning all the new works and the main part road
maintenance works to private enterprises. This change in orientation was reflected in a
modification of the allocation of resources. Expenditures for equipment were limited to their
current level, and the main part of the remaining available resources were allocated to civil works.
This enabled ODR, after four years during which its presence in the field was extremely
inadequate, to start up a sizable work program. Moreover, the stock of equipment had reached a
sufficient volume, and ODR was concentrating its efforts on the management of existing
equipment over the procurement of new equipment.
3.6   Phase Four (1991-July 1993) Implementation of civil works. These works, involving both
periodic maintenance on paved roads and the modernization of earth roads, comnmenced at the
beginning of 1991. The works were actively carried out during 1991-1993; expenditures from
foreign credits for project implementation during these three years totaled 62 percent of the
project resources. The allocation of resources was twice revised during this phase, the most
active in the project. The consultancy share was increased in 1992 and 1993 to meet the needs
identified as a result of the reorganization, which were considerable, primarily involving the
monitoring of road works and institutional assistance for road maintenance supervision activities.
In addition, the share of equipment and spare parts was increased in 1993 to meet urgent
equipment maintenance needs. These requirements unfortunately could not be met by the project
following the suspension of the Bank operations.
3.7   Phase Five (July-November 1992) Suspension of World Bank operations in Zaire. The
suspension was announced on July 15, 1993, immediately cutting off all financing, except for
consultant services; nonetheless, in view of steps taken with top authorities of Zaire to meet the
conditions so that the suspension could be reviewed, the ODR continued with the works in
progress during the period from July 15 to November 14, 1993. Unfortunately, these steps did not
have a favorable outcome, and the suspension was confirmed on November 15, 1993. After the
cut-off on November 14, 1993 of all payments financed by the World Bank, the foreign resources
available for the project were used at a rate of SDR 82.1 million of the 89 rnillion planned, or
92.2%. In addition, the cost of works done from July 15 to November 14, 1993, amounting to
SDR 3.3 million, has to date not been paid. This work was duly verified by the control mission
and by the World Bank supervisory mission, which visited the sites in November 1993.
3.8   In summary, after five years of fits and starts, from 1986 until 1990, the project was able
to be effectively implemented in 1991 as a result of the successful reorganization of the ODR.



19
Project implementation was interrupted prematurely because of a suspension announced by the
World Bank for reasons not directly related to ODR. In view of the pace of the work from 1991
to July 1993, the Government is of the opinion, as is ODR, that the project resources would have
been fully used if the project could have continued until its scheduled closing date, December 31,
1993.
Proiect implementation by category
3.9   Catezorv 1: Equipment and Spare Parts The project expenditure for this category was
SDR 29 million, including 23.1 million, or 80 percent, for civil works equipment and transport.
Other purchases involved construction materials (pipes, asphalt, etc.) amounting to SDR 2.5
million, metal products and subsets for the construction of ferries, amounting to SDR 2.2 million,
prefabricated bridge units, amounting to SDR 1.1 million, and computer equipment amounting to
SDR 100,000. All these expenditures were made between 1987 and 1990, and the review of the
project design conducted at that time led to a cut-off of equipment expenditures. Nonetheless, an
increase in resource allocation for equipment amounting to SDR 1.7 million was planned in 1993,
for urgent procurement of spare parts. A call for tender was issued for this purpose, involving
US$3 million, but no follow-up could be done because of the suspension of the project.
3.10  Categorv 2: Civil Works Expenditures for civil works of SDR 1.02 million were made in
1988. They entailed SDR 240,000 of equipment for ferries and SDR 780,000 for bridge units.
However, the main part of the civil works programs involved works begun in 1990-1991, as
follows:
(a) Periodic maintenance of paved roads:
Cite Verte-Seka Malembe (Kinshasa bypass)
Kenge-Kikwit
Mbuji-Mayi-Mwene-Ditu
Lubumbashi-Kasumbalesa
Goma-Sake
(b) Modernization of earth roads:
Kananga-Mbuji-Mayi
Goma-Beni.
3.11  The resources used for the performance of these works amounted to SDR 29.9 million. At
project closure, 92 percent of total resources of SDR 36.8 million finally allocated to civil works
had been used. However, the physical implementation of the project was not as complete as these
figures would suggest, and the volume of work actually performed is assessed at an average of 64
percent of the objectives established when the works began in 1990-1991. The reasons for this
fact are explained below in Section 4d which discusses the limits of the performance of ODR in
1991-1993.



20
3.12  Catezory 3  Consultant and Expert Services. Project expenditure for this category is
broken down as follows:
Category                                            Thousands of SDRs          __
Technical assistance                                        7,849              46
Works Supervision                                           5,061              30
Consulting services under the project                       3,734              22
Future project consultant services (transferred from PPF)    424                2
17,068             100
3. 3   Total expenditures for consultant and expert services category at the end of the project
amounted to 20.9 percent of the project expenditures compared with the 8.7 percent planned in
the credit agreements. This considerable overrun of the figures initially projected can be explained
by:
(a) the extension of the project period in regards to institutional assistance (eight years
instead of three years) and the supervision of the civil works (an actual period of 30
months rather than the 18 months projected when the work began), and
(b) the identification at the end of 1991 of new institutional assistance requirements
concerning the supervision of the road maintenance work, in order to build upon the
results of the reorganization, taking into account the cut-off of operations financed by
other lenders.
3.14  Catezory 4: Telecommunications and Computers. Expenditure in this area amounted to
only SDR 252,000, or less than 20 percent of the initial allocation. This initial allocation was
reduced to SDR 600,000 in August 1990, and then to SDR 275,000 in June i993.
3.15  Category 5: Training. Training programs provided in the context of the project were
largely executed in 1987 and 1988. On December 31, 1988, SDR 1,308,000 was spent on these
programs, or 97 percent of the final project expenditures for this category.
Performance of the World Bank during the Course of the Project
3.16 The Government considers that, insofar as the Sixth Highway Project is concerned, the
performance of the World Bank, through the teams that managed this project, was of exceptional
quality.
3.17  Indeed, in view of the considerable difficulties that the project experienced beginning in its
second year, the World Bank, after threatening to suspend the project, could have contented itself
with imposing this suspension and waiting passively for Zaire to comply with the commitments
undertaken in the credit agreements. Such an attitude would very likely have led to stopping the
project without any of its established objectives being achieved.



21
3. 18  However, while imposing the suspension provided for in the documents, the World Bank
maintained a dialogue with the authorities responsible for the project and undertook initiatives
that made it possible to deal effectively with the concerns of the authorities concerning the ODR.
In this context, the World Bank did not hesitate to question certain aspects of the initial project
design and to propose innovative solutions, particularly concerning the primary involvement of
the SMEs in the perforrnance of road maintenance work. The reorganization of the ODR, as it
was undertaken under the impetus of the World Bank, rapidly became operational because it
corresponded effectively to the realities of the Zairian economy and society.
3.19   Following the reorganization, the World Bank cor.tinued to follow up closely on the
management of ODR and to advise it in several areas: programming, project design, bidding
procedures, follow-up, financial management, and book-keeping. This collaboration, which
required ODR to improve its managerial methods constantly, proved particularly fruitful.
3.20  From the viewpoint of a resumption of World Bank operations in Zaire -- which it is
hoped will occur as soon as possible -- and lessons to be learned from this experience attests to:
(a) the need to maintain a continuous dialogue between the World Bank and the Zairian
authorities on the implementation of the ongoing projects and any difficulties that are
encountered; only such a dialogue can make it possible to analyze these difficulties in
depth and develop solutions that are well adapted to the realities in the field;
(b) the feasibility of a road maintenance policy that relies essentially on SMEs for the
performance of the work; and, more generally, the sizable potential for economic
development of Zairian private imtiative;
(c) the feasibility of a financially autonomous management policy for equipment, based on
leasing contracts with contractors; and
(d) the usefulness of permanent follow-up by the World Bank on project management, to
provide advice concerning various techrncal and financial problems and to supply technical
assistance for certain key posts.
4. The Performance of the Office des Routes in the Implementation of the Project
Assessment of the Performance of the ODR
4.1    The Government considers that the performance of the ODR was uneven: weak during the
first three years but subsequently very satisfactory, despite an unfavorable environment.
Meanwhile, an in-depth reorganization, undertaken in close collaboration with the World Bank,
completely transformed the working methods of the enterprise. The following will be analyzed
below:



22
(a) the operation of ODR before reorganization,
(b) the content and the process of the reorganization;
(c) the factors and limits of the performance of the ODR in 199 1- 1993, and
(d) the new conditions created by the suspension of World Bank operations in Zaire.
4.2   The operation of ODR before the reorganization. Before the 1990 reorganization, the
performance of the ODR as regards its duties in general as well as project implementation was
poor. Insofar as the project was concerned, whereas the implementation was initially planned for
three years, the disbursement of the foreign funds at the end of the third year, or 12i3 1/88, was
only 25 percent of the amount of the available credits. Three major handicaps impaired the
efficiency of the ODR at that time:
(a) the absence of a coherent planning framework;
(b) the inadequate and irregular level of the local financial resources; and
(c) the overdesign and lack of flexibility of the organization.
4.3   The process and content of the reorganization. The reorganization was undertaken on the
basis of an in-depth audit of the activities of the ODR, conducted in April 1989, by mutual
agreement between the World Bank and Zaire. This audit made it possible to diagnose the
strengths and weaknesses of the institution and to conduct studies with a view to reorganization.
The reorganization encompassed the following:
(a) insofar as the planning framework is concerned, by: (i) the definition of a priority
highway program (Programme Routier Prioritaire: PRP) focusing on concentrating road
maintenance activity on the 23,000 kilometers of highways handling 90 percent of the
traffic; and (ii) the execution, on June 23, 1992, of the 1992-1995 Performance Contract
with the Government;
(b) in the area of financial resources, by the establishment in 1990 of a monthly allocation
equivalent to US$5 million; this allocation has been received regularly by the ODR since
January 1991 (even if, subsequently, its real value has greatly declined as the result of the
financial upheaval of Zaire); and
(c) insofar as the organization is concerned: (i) the transfer of the greater part of the road
maintenance activities to the SMEs; (ii) consequently, the reduction of the staff of ODR
from 8,000 to 2,500 at the beginning of 1991; and (iii) the establishment of financially
autonomous management of the Equipment Department, the use of the equipment being
governed since 1991 by lease contracts with large contractors and the SMEs.
4.4   This reorganization process was piloted by the World Bank and undertaken by the ODR
with the participation of the Government and all the lenders. Its success was reflected in the field
both by a perceptible improvement in the conditions of the PRP highways and by progress in
project implementation. At the institutional level, the involvement of SMEs in road maintenance
works and the use of lease contracts for equipment have become a matter of course.



23
4.5   The Government believes that the reorganization of the ODR should be considered a joint
accomplishment by the Office des Routes and the World Bank.
4.6   The performance factors of the ODR in 1991-1993.  The primary factor in the
performance noted from 1991 to 1993 in the results of road maintenance as well as in the
implementation of the project relates to the accomplishments of the reorganization. Since this was
so, the necessary measures were taken in agreement with the Government, to make the most of
these accomplishments, and in particular:
(a) adherence to management rules established following the reorganization, entailing two
essential points: (i) allocating 80 percent of resources obtained from domestic financing by
the Office des Routes to road works and thereby limiting expenditure for structural costs
to 20 percent of these resources; and (ii) limiting ODR staff to 2,500 employees.
(b) the priority given to project implementation and the definition of appropriate solutions
to all problems that might risk creating implementation delays. Thus, at the beginning of
1992, after the withdrawal of the MD/MDZ contractor from the Kinshasa-Kenge-Kikwit
and Mbuji-Mayi sites, alternate solutions were found: (i) performance of the work on the
Kinshasa-Kenge-Kikwit highway by three SMEs, and (ii) subcontracting the work on the
Mbuji-Ma,i-Mwene-Ditu highway to the Swanepoel enterprise. In like manner, in 1993,
in view of the slow implementation of the work on the Kananga-Mbuji-Mayi highway, the
ODR became directly involved with the contractor in seeking to make appropriate
arrangements to resolve the thorny problem of supplying the site with fuel and materials.
(c) strengthening the framework for supervising the main sites, concerning the
modernization of earth roads.
(d) maintaining continuous dialog with the World Bank on all issues related to project
implementation, through quarterly follow-up missions, together with improved
communications via satellite telephone (procured through project financing), and the
appointment of a permanent correspondent with Washington;
(e) improvement, at the level of the General Secretariat of ODR, of the operation of the
Foreign Financing Division, which made it possible beginning November 1992 to control
the operating mechanisms of the Special Account and to ensure the regularity and fluidity
of foreign-exchange payments.



24
4.7   Since this is so, the Government considers that, because of the reorganization of the ODR
and then the management that was then established, the disbursement of project resources could
have been fully achieved in 1993, had it not been for the July 15, 1993 suspension.
4.8   The limits of the performance of ODR in 1991-1993. Project implementation was slower
than planned at the time it was restarted in 1990, since the closing date had first been set for
December 31, 1992, in addition, it was noted that the physical performance of the road works
corresponded on average to only 64 percent of established objectives.
4.9   The insufficient pace of project implementation can be explained by the major upheavals
that the country experienced and the deterioration of general conditions of economic activity. The
works started in 1991, in a climate of accelerated inflation and uncertainty about the future of the
country. They were greatly slowed down by the looting in September 1991, which led to the
closing of certain construction sites for several months. Subsequently, the problems of inflation
were exacerbated by a monetary and financial crisis characterized by the paralysis of the banking
system, the rejection of checks as payment methods, and the shortage of bank notes. The looting
of January 1993 struck a new blow for shutting down the works. And throughout this period, the
fuel shortage worsened, particularly the remote sites (Kananga-Mbuji-Mayi and Mbuji-Mayi-
Mwene-Ditu).
4.10  As for the time lag between the attainment of the technical objectives and the financial
performance, it is explained:
(a) in a general manner by the above-mentioned worsening of economic conditions
together with work shutdowns following the looting of September 1991 and January
1993; during these interruptions the works left unfinished deteriorated considerably, which
was reflected by additional works to be charged to the project; and
(b) for the works of asphalting the earth roads, by the need, which became evident with
experience with the works in the field, to complete the initial design (adopted by mutual
agreement with the World Bank) in supplementary drainage works. These additional
works, entailing technical improvemene of the roads built in terms of protecting them
against erosion, are reflected in an increase in costs from US$74,000 per kilometer on the
average depending on the outcome of the bids to US$125,000 per kilometer for the
completed work.
4.11  The new conditions created by the suspension. The immediate consequences of the
suspension were:
(a) nonpayment of road works perforned between July 15 and the final confirmation of
the suspension, works amounting to SDR 3.3 million;
(b) the closure on November 14, 1993, of the project sites that were not yet completed
with the high risk of loss of the works that remained unfinished at the closure;



2 5
(c) the impossibility of following up on bids for procurement of spare parts for the
equipment, whose financing had been approved by the World Bank up to SDR 2. 1 million,
the lack of this financing was reflected by a decrease in the availability of this equipment
and physical breakdown, and
(d) the suspension of the preparatory studies for the seventh highway project.
In addition to these immediate, already worrisome consequences, the suspension of World Bank
operations results in the postponement until an indefinite date of the set-up of a new proy..ct. It
deprives ODR of the support of the World Bank -- which has proved particularly fruitful during
past years -- and could, if prolonged, have disastrous consequences in several areas:
(a) financing road construction. In the current state of the road network, these works are
concerned on a priority basis with protecting asphalted roads. Of vital importance to the
country, such works in and of themselves require a budget of US$210 million over three
years. The intervention by the World Bank should be decisive in order to guarantee
financing of these works, either directly or as the leader of the other lenders. If the Bank's
absence is to be prolonged, it will become extremely difficult to ensure that these essential
roads are protected, with incalculable social consequences.
(b) institutional assistance. In order to build on the results of the reorganization, the ODR
should receive, in the next few years, technical assistance in some key positions of the
enterprise. Until the present, the financing of this type of assistance has been ensured by
the World Bank. In its absence, the necessary expertise might become more difficult to
obtain, and the efficiency resulting from the reorganization could be impaired.
(c) management advice. In addition to the financing, the recent years of the project made
it possible to experiment with a fruitful collaboration between the ODR and the World
Bank in all areas of management of the enterprise. This collaboration, which obliged ODR
to improve its work methods constantly, should be continued, because without sustainable
progress, the quality of the management could well diminish.
Recommendations
4.12  The Government strongly wishes that World Bank support be provided again to the ODR
as soon as possible, with the lifting of the suspension and the preparation of a new project. In the
meantime, the Government fervently hopes that the World Bank will not lose interest in an
institution that it has supported since its origin and whose recent achievements also its own
successes.
4.13  From this viewpoint, the Government would be deeply appreciative, as soon as the
institutional obstacles are eliminated and the political and financial adjustment measures have been
taken by the Zairian authorities concerned, if the World Bank would resume its traditional



26
leadership role among lenders to the highway sector. In the context of the preparation of a
specific and substantive financing plan for future projects, the World Bank could thus organize the
mobilization and concerted efforts of lenders to the ODR, both multilateral (UNDP and EDF) and
bilateral (Kuwait. Fund, KfW, Caisse Fran9aise de Developpement, Japan, Great Britain, Canada,
Belgium).
4.14  In the same context, the World Bank is the institution best suited to organize a concerted
action to identify and mobilize the ways and means that would be most effective in permitting a
settlement for works performed but not paid for following the suspension of the operations of the
ADB, EDF, and IDA, which amounts to a total of US$9.7 million.
4.15  These concerted actions could result in the organization of a mini round table of lenders to
the highway sector, with a view to the resumption of a normal operating system at the ODR. The
intervention strategy to be developed would essentially be concerned with protecting and
rehabilitating the asphalted road network, together with maintaining and finishing up highway
projects that could not successfully be completed during the suspension of operations by the Bank
and other lenders (ADB, EDF, KFW).
4.16  For its part, the Government will undertake to ensure the institutional stability of the ODR
and make budgetary allocations regularly available to it.
5. The Mutual Relations of the World Bank. the Goverrnent, and the Office des Routes durin
the Course of the Project
5.1   The preceding analysis in Chapters 3 and 4 above has enabled it to appreciate the
excellence and remarkable effectiveness of the relations that have been established since the
beginning of the project between the World Bank, the Government, and ODR, despite the
considerable difficulties that led to the project's suspension. After the reorganization, these
relations were intensified and took the form of an ongoing collaboration to ensure the success of
the project. Without the suspension of World Bank operations in Zaire, this relationship could
have culminated in the comprehensive use of the resources of the project under review and the
establishment of a substantive seventh project whose configuration would have been built upon
the experience and success of the sixth project.
5.2    Without reference to the preceding analysis, it should be emphasized that the relations of
exemplary cooperation established between the Bank and the executing agency (ODR) found their
support in:
(a) the World Bank supervisory missions, 19 in number over the eight years of the
project, or an average of over two per year;
(b) the follow-up missions of the ODR at the World Bank headquarters in Washington,
seven in number between April 1991 and June 1993;



27
(c) the contacts and continuous discussions between the ODR and the Resident Mission
of the World Bank in Zaire;
(d) the establishment of an international telephone link by satellite between the ODR and
its foreign correspondents, which made it possible to overcome the deficiencies of the
telecommunications system in Zaire; and
(e) the appointment by the ODR of a permanent correspondent responsible for ensuring
liaison and contacts with Washington.
5.3   From the perspective of a new project and a resumption of World Bank operations in
Zaire, it is imperative to ensure that these tangible supports of effective collaboration that have
been noted are maintained or reestablished. The project took responsibility for the procurement of
a satellite telephone. In addition, the Government strongly hopes that the Resident Mission of the
World Bank in Zaire may be reopened as soon as the suspension measure is lifted.
Done at Kinshasa, June 10, 1994
[Signature]
The Vice Minister
LOKONDO YOKA



ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cr.1608-ZR
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1 - Related Bank Credits
A - Credit/Loans to Highway Sector
CREDIT TITLE                         PURPOSE                           YEAR OF            STATUS                       COMMENTS
.___________   ________________________________           A PPROVA L                                          _
Loan 184-BE         New highway construction, improvements to prepare      1957                             Satisfactorily completed
Highway Project    for mechanized maintenance of feeder roads
Loan 251-BE        Construction and improvement of feeder roads, ferries   1960                             Mostly canceled duc to prevailing political
and bridges                                                                             conditions
Cr. 152-CK Firsl    Institution building, maintenance and rehabilitation   1969       Completed in 1976.    Partially successful. Did not achievc the
Highway Project    of the highway system.                                             PPAR 1978             expected results.
Cr.292-CK Second   Same as above                                           1972       Completed in 1979.    Partially successful projecl.
Highway Project                                                                       PPAR Oct. 7, 1983
Cr.536-ZR Third    Same as above                                           1975       Completed in 1980.    Successful conclusion of main
Highway Project                                                                       PPAR Oct. 7, 1983     components, in particular regional
maintenance.
Cr.916-ZR Fourth   Same as above                                           1979       Completed in 1983     Salisfactory conclusion of the project
Highway Project                                                                       PPAR, 1991
Cr. 1290-ZR Fifth    Same as above                                         1982       Completed in 1987     Partially successfujl projecl. Completed
Highway Project                                                                       PPAR, 1991            witli one and a lhalf year delay. Overall
physical objectivcs achieved fairly well.
c:\worddadc\ghzal\zairc\1608tblI A(JH)



ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cr. 1608-ZR
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table I - Related Bank Credits
B - Credits to Other Transport Subsectors
CREDIT TITLE                                        PURPOSE                                  YE4R OF            S TA TV.V
APPROVAL
Cr.255-CK River Transport Project I   Rehabilitation of facilities and equipment for the Zaire River Esluary  1972   PPAR Oci. 7, 1983
TA for institution building                                                    ___
Cr.571-ZR River and Railway Transporl  TA lo ONATRA for institutional building and training, ONATRA's    1975        PPAR Oc1.7, 1983
Project                              investment requirements, track renewal                                               __
Cr.902-ZR SNCZ Railway Project       To finance track rehabilitation, rolling stock, TA and training      1979       Coiiipicted in 1986
Cr.1 180-ZR ONATRA Modernization    Track renewal, rolling slock river transport equipment, TA Training   1982       Completed in 1990
Project e
Cr.1335-ZR ONATRA Maladi-            Berth reconstruclion, equipment, spare parts, technical assistance  1983        Completed in 1990.
Kinshasa Port Rehabilitation Project
Cr. 1475-ZR SNCZ Second Railway      Track renewal, rolling stock procurement, communications, training  1984        Closed in 199()
Project
Cr. 1761 -ZR River Navigation        Assistance to two parastatals involved in maintenance of river      1987        Closed in 1993
Improvement Project                  navigation aids, hydrographic surveys, pilotage, including institution
building
Cr.2027-ZR First Transport           Rehabilitation of Voie Nalionale, port improvement and equipment    1989        Closcd in 1993
Rehabilitation Project, ONATRAISNCZ  replacement, tools and spares, operalional improvements
Cr.2178-ZR Pilot Feeder Roads Project   To test and evaluate alternative methods for the rehabilitation and  1990   Objectives partially
maintenance of feeder roads, strengthen the responsible institution,           achieved. Closed in
promote development of local capacity                         ___1994
c:.otdc\1aazac0B3Il(JHl)



30
ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cr.1608-ZR'
PART m1- STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 2- Project Timetable
ACT11VTY                 PLANNED                 ACTUAL
DATE                    DATE
Identification                                   During supervision of
Cr. 1290-ZR
Preparation                                      During supervision of
Cr. 1290-ZR
Appraisal                06/84                   06/84
Negotiations             01/85                   05/85
Board Approval           4/85                    06/13/85
Signature                                         12/13/85
Effectiveness            01/01/86                03/07/86
Loan Closing2            12/31/9393               12/31/93
Project Completion       12/31/93                 12/31/93
c:\%wardWdocz\&1da\ui16tb2(JH)
"The IDA Credit 1608-ZR was associated with and completmented by:
African Facility Credit, A006-ZR, of SDR 29.5 millionm, signed at the same time s
Cr.1608-ZR (December 13, 1985)
* Japanese Grant 2379-9-ZR, of 600,000,000 Yens, signed March 23, 1987
2The initial planned closing date was December 31, 1989, as per Appraisal DocumenL The project
was etended 4 times, the last planned closing date was December 31, 1993.



ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTII hlGHIIWAY PROJECT
Cr.1608-ZR
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 3 - Credit Disbursements
A. Disbursement by Category
IDA Cr. 1608-ZR                      AFRICAN FACILITY C'r.A006-ZR              JAPANESE GRANT 2379-ZR
(SDR)                                        (SDR)                                  (YEN,V)
CATEGORY                APPRAISAL    AMENDED   ACTUAL                 INITIAL        AMENDED    ACTUAL             INITIAL         ACTUAL
ESTIMATE       ESTIMATE                      ESTIMATE    ESTIMATE                         ESTIMATE
(01/90)                                      (01/90)
1. Materials, equip.,      31,181,000      6,000,000      5,878,716      23,100,000     19,000,000     18,969,445    600U,OII,00l\     G600,UII,O1I o
supplies, spare parts
2. Civil works              3,935,000     36,580,000     27,903,830              -       7,550,000      6,5108,369    .__                         -
3. Consultants and          4,733,000      3,400,000      13,123,799      2,950,000      2,950,000      3,943,613
expert services
4. Data processing &        1,211,000        600,000        251,606              -              -               -
telecomm. equip.,
software & maintenance
contract                                                                                                                  _                   _ _
5. Training, fellowships    1,514,000      1,680,000       1,352,556                     -                     -               -
6. Unallocated/Special     12,926,000      7,240,000        585,738      3,450,000              -         78,575          78,575
Account                                                                                                                                     __  _
TOTAL                      55,500,000     55,500,000     48,592,069     29,500,000      29,500,000    29,500,000     600,000,000        600,000,O0U0
UJndisbursed balance     Cancellation      6,907,931
<                    I\ b3.(JIE)



ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION PROJECT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cr. 1608-ZR
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 3 - Credit Disbursements
B. Disbursements by Quarter (at end of quarter)
Cr.1608-ZR and African Facilily Cr.A006-ZR
(US$000)
Appraieal ~~~~~~~~~~~                                            Actp~~~~~~~l Cpimtlative as % of
| -  -$--  - 0 0   D it  nt (at t08 tg  |:nt
.........              t C.168Z    Aede   sim   isusuins                    Acta Dibrat Is                 AmeAded. Estimated
~~Cr460$-ZR & cr,A0O6~~~Z)~)                         Cumulative
FY and QTR   Absolute        Cumulative         Absolute        Cumulative       Absolute    Cumulative
1986 _                                                                  _          _
Sep-85
Dec-85 _
Mar-86        1,500             1,500             1,500           1,500            0              0                             WP,_o
Jun-86        3,500            5,000             4,500            6,000         1,510         1,51(0                           25%
1987   _ _ _ _ _ __                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                  _ _ _ _ _ _
Sep-86       5,000            10,000             6,000           12,00(            0          1,510                            13%
Dec-86        5,000           15,000             8,000          20,000            90          1,600                             x%
Mar-87        5,000           20,000            15,000           35,000          290           1,890                             5%
Jun-87        5,000           25,000            10,000           45,000          750          2,640                             5%
1988
Sep-87       5,000            30,000            10,000          55,0I0         2,950          5,590                            10%
Dec-87       5,000            35,000            10,000          65,000         3,650          9,240                            14%
Mar-88        5,000           40,000             5,000           70,000        13,410        22,650                             32%
Jun-88        5,0001          45,000             5,000           75,000        8,8001        31,530                            42%



ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cr. 1608-ZR
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 3 - Credit Disbursements (Continued)
B. Disbursement by Quarter (at end of QTR)
ICr.1608-ZR and African Facility Cr.A006-ZR
_US$000)
I                                                -  -   :::   :-  .,: .- -: 1:-:': -: -  - ::  : :: -- -  b  -  ..... .. ....... ... .......... ..  ,.,. . .   - , : . . - . - .
-    :- .. ...                  stu       -e                                                               Actuai Cumulative as % of
-lb*smeat qC.10-RAute   sb~Dsiasnet                            cul1ibrect                   Amended EstImated
.._________ .,    . .  ......  .  . Y)  ..  .  (Cr.....  . .A         - .      . .......    ..   ...  .   .    . .   . .Cumulative
FY and QTR   Absolute        Cumulative         Absolute        Cumulative      Absolute   Cumulative
1989                                      
Sep-88       5,000            50s00             5,000           80,000        4,050         35,580                           44%.
Dec-88       2,000            52,000            2,000           82,000        3,470         39,050                           4 X_Mu
Mar-89        1,000           53,000             1,000          83,000          680         39,730                            48%
Jun-89        1,000           54,000            1,000           84,000          500         40,230                           48%°
Sep-89         so500          54,000              S00           84,500        1,080        41,310                            49%1
Dec-89         500            55,000              soo           85,000          230        41,54()                           49__ _ _
Mar-90                       s55,000                            85,000         2,030        43,570                            51%
Jun-90 .                      55,000                           s85,000          790         44,360                           52%
sep9  _                       55,000                            85,000          380        44,740                            53%
Dec-90 _     _55,000                                            85,000          440        45,180                            530%/,
Mar-911                       55,000                            85,000        6,210         51,390                           60%
Jun-91                        55,000                            85,000        5,420        56,8101                           67%



ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cr. 1 608-ZR
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 3 - Credit Disbursements (Continued)
B. Disbursement by Quarter fat end of Quarter)
Cr.1608-ZR and African Facility Cr.A006-ZR
_US$000)
A~~aIss) guhm.         AmtXded Rstim~ '0ish^&Ients                          *.         etuA Ctte   % of
.... ..                ded I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mvie . . ........
FY and QTR   Absolute    Cumulative            Absolute       Cumulative    Absolute   Cumulativc                                                 L
1992
Sep-91                       55,000                           85,000         1,050        57,860                          68%
Dec-91                       55,000                           85,000         1,5(0        59,410                          70%
Mar-92                        55,000                           85,000        5,330        64,740                           76%
Jun-92                       55,000                           85,000        7,250         71,990                          83%
1993                                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Sep-92 _                     55,000                           8s,000        8,670        80,660                           95%
Dec-92                       55,000 _______                   85,000         5,680        86,340                          102%
Mar-93                        55,000 ________85,000                          4,410        90,750                          1(1%
Jun-93 ______55,000 ________85,000                                          5,630         96,380                          113%
Sep-93     __55,000 ________85,000                                       6,500       102,880                          121%
Dec-93                       55,000                           85,000        3,440        106,320                          125%
May-94c.
c:%excelUI6689b3b.zIs(JH)



,5
ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cr. 1608-ZR
PART HI - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 4 - Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (In SDR 000's)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATES           AMENDED ESTIMATES               ACTUAL
(Cr.1608-ZR)          INCLUDING AF. FACELITY
AND JAP. GRANT*
Materials, equipment,                         31,181,000                    29,000,000        28,421,907
supplies, spare parts
Civil works                                    3,935,000                    44,130,000        33,908,023
Consultants and experts                        4,733,000                     6,350,000        17,067,412
services
data processing equipment,                     1,211,000                       600,000           251,606
telecomm. equipment
Training, fellowships                          1,514,000                     1,680,000         1,352,556
Unallocated/Special                           12,926,000                     7,240,000           586,391
Account                                                  _
TOTAL PROJECT COST                            55,500,000                    89,000,000        81,S87,895
I Note: 1SDR - 150 Yens (approximately)
B. Project Financing (in SDR 000's)
APPRAISAL        AMENDED ESTIMATE                            ACTUAL AS % OF
EST>I4ATE        (Cr.1608, Cr.A-006 and      ACTUAL             AMENDED
(Cr. 1608-ZR)       Japanese Grant)                             ESTIMATE
Government of Zaire             11,480                  11,480              11,480        100%
IDA                            55,500                   89,000              81,590        92%
TOTAL             1            66,980                   100,480             93,070        93%
c: .word\doc\ghzala\zaire\l60Stb4(JH)



36
ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cr.1608-ZR
PART Im - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 5 - IDA Contribution to the Office des Route's 1986-88 Comprehensive Highway Program
ESTIMATE OF OR's              IDA ACTUAL               EDA ACTUAL
1986-88 HIGHWAY          CONTRIBUTION          CONTRIBUTION AS
ACTIVITIES                         PROGRAM        (Cr.1608, Cr.A006-ZR       % OF HIGHWAY
(AS PER APPRAISAL)        and Japanese Grant)             PROGRAM
1. Materials, equipment,               164,482                  28,422                    17%
supplies, spares
2. Civil Works                         140,264                  33,908                    17%
3. TA, Consultants,                     11,201                  17,319                   155%
experts, office
equipment
4. Training                             13,623                   1,353                    10%
Base Cost                              329,570                  81,002                    25%
Unallocated                             48,638                     586                     1%
TOTAL                                  378,208                  81,588                    22%
c: \word&doc\&hzaia\zaire\tb5(JH)



37
ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cr. 1608-ZR
PART mH - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 6 - Project Indicators
1. Condition of the Priority Network'
I 06/30/89   01/01/90   01/01/91   01/01/92   09/30/92   12/31/92   30/06193
Very good                                         7%        16%        14%        12%
Good            31%        28%        21%        33%        26%        30%        29%
Average         40%        35%        24%        30%        28%        27%        27%
Bad       1    29%         37%        55%        30%        30%        29%        32/
2. Maintenance by Force Account
TARGET FOR 1988  ACTUAL    ACTUAL   ACTUAL IN 1992   1993
I AT APPRAISAL     IN 1990     IN 1991                      :
Paved Road Maintenance (sq.m)  122,000           79,425       76,618     24,131 (patching   N/A
not included)
Grading (km)                  52,000             7,164       3,297       2,247            N/A
Manual Maintenance(km)        15,000             252         3,185       N/A              N/A
Culvert Construction (m)      7,200              1,595        1,243      1,393            N/A
Bridge Maintenance (m)        8,800              2,603       1,347       N/A              N/A
3. Maintenance by Contractors
1990            1991          1992             1993
Maintenance Contracts                          5              47             66              113
Percentage of Total Maintenance Budget          -           59%            67%              80%
Amount (km)                                                18,313        15,672            28,060
c:'word\doc%ghzala\zaire\ 1608tb6(JH)
lThc levels are defined according to the average speed at which the user is able to drive on the road:
very good     av.sp>70kmvh
good          40 km/h < av.sp. < 70 km/h
average       30 krnvh < av.sp.<40 km/h
bad           av.sp. < 30 knvh



ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cr. 1608-ZR
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 7 - Status of Covenants
REFERENCE TO
CREDIT        STA TIUS   ORIGINAL   REVISED            DESCRIPTION OF COVENANTS                                COMMENTS
AGREEMENTS                    AD TE    DA TE
3.03 (i)        OK                               OD to furnish (i) quarterly reports on the  Last progress report received is for 41h quarter of 1992
progress of project.
3.03 (ii)       OK          11/91                (ii) its annual program for the approval of IDA  Complied with (Altachment to Conlract Plan)
4.01 (a)        OK         07/92                  (iii) for every quarter, statements of its  Complied with
revenues, financial investments, paymenis
made and main physical achievements
4.01 (b)        OK                               ODR to (a) maintain records and accounts   Complied with
adequatc to reflect the operations and financial
.______________              e__________               conditions of ODR
OK        6/30/92                (b)(i) have its accounts including special  Complied with for 1991. financial stateinents and
accounts and financial statements audited for   auditors report for 1991 were provided by June 30, 1992.
each fiscal year by independent auditors
OK        6/30/92                (ii) furnish not later than by June 30, certified   Not in compliance.
copies of financial stalements and auditor
report
4.02           OK                               GOZ to maintain domestic retail prices for fuel Irregularly complied with since February 1, 1989. The
above their economic costs.               very high prevailing inflation rate requires regular price
adjustments which at times have been delayed by GOZ for
political reasons. GOZ suspended temporarily the
fiscality on fuel in July 1991, to limil price escalation, but
this is not expected to be sustainable given ithe overall
dire fiscal situation.
The new government liberalized fuel prices in May 1992,
which resulted in an important increase in those prices.
4.03          RVS         12/85        N/A      GOZ to furnish a program of action for    A set of new regulalions was prcpared by ihe etid of 1986,
regulating and enforcing axle loads on its  but has not been officially approved by GOZ.
highways, exchange views with IDA and
promptly thereafter implement the program    I



ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cr.1608-ZR
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 7 - Status of Covenants (Continued)
REFERENCE
TO CREDIT    STA TUS   ORIGINAL   REVISED                 DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT                                    (OMMENTS
AGREEMENTS                     DA TE    DA TE
4.05          RVS         03/89        12/90     ODR to (a) pay its contractors promptly (b)  Not complied with persistently since 1987, which resulled
repay by December 31, 1990 all its local   in the suspension of disbursemcnts in March 1988. The
currency debt overdue more than 90 days.   situationl improved late 1989, carly 1990, which allowed
IDA to lift the suspcnsioni of disburscnents.
In 1990, actual resourccs madc available to ODR ($31
million) were shori of the amount; however, the situation
improved dramatically lately as in 1991 ODR received $45
million out of $60 million due, despile the very bad macro
financial and economic situation.
$5 million/month were received in 1992. A permanent
monthly deposit order of $5 million equivalent for the year
__________ __________                                                 1993 was issued by GOZ on January 28, 1993.
5.06          ACT                                ODR to continue to monitor the volume of   ODR was not able to finance traflic counts from 1987 to
traffic on its major highways.             1990. Traffic counts were expected to be resumed under the
new plaining system which ODR inieids to develop
following preparalion of a priority road program. Study on
I traffic assessment program submiiled to IDA in July 1992.
wh     0      17 (f1)



ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cr.1608-ZR
PART 31 - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 8 - Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (in staff weeks)
STAGCE                         FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86  FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92                 FY93   FY94   TOIAL
Preparation                     0.4                                                                                                 0.4
Appraisal                              29.9   39.8                                                                                 69.7
Negotiations                                    1.3                                              .                                  1.3
Supervision                           _         0.3    20.5   21.9    14.2    21.7    9.6        10.4     9.1      28.8            136.5
Project Completion ReporI                                             _                      I                             6.0      6.0
TOTAL                           0.4    29.9   41.4   20.5   21.9    14.2    21.7    9.6          10.4     9.1      28.8    6.0    213.9
c:\word\doc*hzama\1608(JH)
June 29, 1994



ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cr. 1608-ZR
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 8 - Use of Bank Resources
B. Missions
YEAW/   NUMBER   DAYS IN  SPECIALIZATION   PERFORMANCE  TYPES OF PROBLEMS
MISSIONS                  MONTH           OF         FIELD        REPRESENTED          RATING STATUS
__ _ _ _ ___    _PERSONS
Through Appraisal                      83               4            10      HE, TE, TRO, FA              .-_     .
Appraisal Through Board Approval       84/85            4            22      HE, TE, TRO, FA
Board Approval Through Effectiveness  85                3                    HE,TE, RSA
Supervision                            01/86            6            15      HE, E                           2                  Financial
Supervision                            05-06/86         3            17      HE, E                           I
Supervision                            01-02/87         3            14      DC. TE. IIE                     2           Fin. (Counterp. Funding)
Supervision                            04/87            1            5       HE                             3                   Financial
Supervision                            07/87            2            18      TE, HE                         3                   Financial
Supervision                            10/87            1            8       HE                             3                   Financial
Supervision                            01-03/88         5            28      HE, TE, TRO, FA, E             4                   Financial
Supervision                           05/88             1            6       IIE, FNA                       4             Financial, Management
Supervision                            10/88            3            9       FA, HE, C                                          Financial
Supervision                           02/89             2            4       IIE, E                                      Financial, ManagemenI
Supervision                           03/89             1            15      IIE                            4            Financial, ManagemenI
Supervision                           07/89             1            10      HE                             3            Financial, Management
Supervision                           02-03/90          S           20       HE, E, C, RSA                  2                  Managerial
Supervision                           06/90             2           10       HE, E                          3            Financial, Managemen  ||
Supervision                            11/90            3           10       TRO, HE, E                     2
Supervision                           03/91             2            7       HE, E                          2
Supervision                           07/91             2           23       HE, RSA                        2
Supervision                           02/92             2            2       HE, RSA                        2                   Political
Supervision                           05/92             2            9       TE, C                          2                   Political
Supervision                            10/92            4           17       TE, FA, C, RSA                 2            Organizational/Political
Supervision                           03/93             3            5       TE, FA, RSA                    2                   Political
Supervision/PCR                        10-11/93        4            19       TE, FA, C                      2            Country Mon. Problems
IE = Highway engineer         TE  1Transport Economist      C = Consultanl                 DC = Division Chiel
E  = Economist                TRO = T 'aining Specialist     FNA = Financial Analyst       RSA = Rcsearch Assistant
c:\word\doc\ghzala\zaire\I 608U(Jli)









IMAGING
Report No:       15196
Type: PCR



