CREDIT NUMBER 1608 ZR
Development Credit Agreement
(Sixth Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated        ecem ber-     /3     , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1608 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated ee)0",01       /       ', 1985, between the
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project, described in Schedule 2
to ti.is Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association in its
capacity as Administrator of the Special facility for Sub-Saharan
Africa (the African Facility) established by its Executive
Directors by Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985 (the Resolu-
tion) to assist in the financing of the same Project by granting
a special credit (hereinafter called the African Facility Credit)
to the Borrower equivalent to twenty-nine million five hundred
thousand  Special   Drawing  Rights  (SDR  29,500,000); and    the
Association as such Administrator is willing to grant the African
Facility Credit pursuant to the African Facility Credit AgrOement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association as
such Administrator;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association dated January 1, 1985
with the following modification, (the General Conditions) con-
stitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the    context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following terms have the
following meanings:
(a) "Bureau" means the Office des Routes established under
Ordonnance - Loi No. 71-023 of the Borrower dated March 26, 1971
as modified by Ordonnance - Loi No. 72-016 dated February 21,


﻿- 2 -
1972, Loi No. 78-002 of January 6, 1978, Ordonnance No. 78-223
dated May 5, 1978, Loi No. 80-004 of January 22, 1980, Ordonnance
- Loi No. 82-006 dated February 25, 1982, Arr8tG No. 82/CAB/
VPE/AT/0078 dated June 17, 1982, Arr&tG No. 82/CAB/VPCE/AT/0098
dated June 18, 1982 and Ordonnance No. 82-191 dated December 4,
1982; and
(b) "Special Account A" means the account described in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to land to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty-five million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 55,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account (Special
Account A) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from


﻿- 3 -
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1995, and ending April 15,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4,02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Bureau is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Condition.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through


﻿-4,
the Bureau with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate economic, financial, administrative, engineering
and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the Bureau to furnish
to the Association (i) within three months after the end of each
calendar quarter, reports on the progress of the Project as of
the end of such quarter and (ii) beginning in 1985 and not later
than November 30 in each year, its annual work program for the
approval of the Association; such work programs shall not be
modified without the prior approval of the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Economic Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Bureau to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of the Bureau.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Bureau to:
(i) have its accounts, including the Special Account,
and financial statements (balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expenses and related state-
ments) for each fiscal year audited in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;


﻿-5-
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts, financial statements of
the Bureau and the audit thereof and said records
as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are made from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause the Bureau to:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Closing
Date; and in any event until the completion of the
audit for the fiscal year in which the last dis-
bursement from the Credit Account was made, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts be included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contain,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit applied to such expendi-
tures were used for the purpose for which they
were provided.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain domestic retail
prices for gasoline and Diesel oil at all times, and in all parts
of the country at levels above their economic costs, including
full transportation and distribution costs.


﻿-6-
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall by December 31, 1985 fur-
nish to the Association a program of action for regulating and
enforcing axle loads on its highways, including the passage of
any necessary legislation and the adoption of enforcement mea-
sures, shall exchange views with the Association thereon and
shall promptly thereafter implement the program taking into
account the views of the Association.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the Bureau to: (i)
revise by December 31, 1985 the terms of reference of its plan-
ning unit to provide for optimum coordination with the Department
of Planning and the Group for Transport Studies of the Department
of Transport and Communications and to establish systematic plan-
ning and monitoring procedures; (ii) staff such unit in order
to achieve such purposes; (iii) furnish to the Association by
March 31 in each year, beginning in 1986, a five-year rolling
program of all its activities and investments from January 1 of
each year, together with a review of the previous year's activi-
ties and investments, such program to be based on realistic fore-
casts of availability of local and external funds and on economic
criteria satisfactory to the Association; and (iv) in respect of
any new investment or subprogram estimated to cost in excess of
five million dollars equivalent, furnish to the Association a
study, the methodology of which shall be satisfactory to the
Association, of its technical and economic justification and
including its financing plan, and shall exchange views thereon
with the Association prior to including such investment or
subprogram in the five-year rolling program of the Bureau.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Bureau to pay
its contractors promptly in accordance with the payment schedules
agreed with such contractors.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the Bureau repay within
one year from March 31, 1985 all its local currency debt overdue
more than 90 days as of such date.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall by December 31, 1985 fur-
nish to the Association its recommendations for road-user
charges, shall exchange views thereon with the Association and
thereafter shall maintain such charges at levels sufficient to
cover at least the costs of the routine and periodic maintenance
of its road network necessary to prevent its deterioration.


﻿- 7 -
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall tke such steps (including
adjustments to the levels of road taxes on gasoline and Diesel
oil) as shall be necessary to ensure:
(a) that the Bureau has available to it the funds necessary
to cover at least the maintenance of roads, repaving activities,
bridge and ferry works, technical assistance, studies, training
and the purchase of office equipment, including in its five-year
rolling program;
(b) that all such funds, other than those from external
sources, come from the road tax on gasoline and Diesel oil;
(c) that the proceeds of such tax not fall in any case
below the equivalent of $50 million per year in mid-1986 terms;
and
(d) that such proceeds be paid over directly to the Bureau.
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Bureau
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause the Bureau:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance  with   sound  administrative,   financial,  economic,
engineering and technical practices, with its annual work
programs as approved by the Association and with its five-year
rolling program, under the supervision of qualified and experi-
enced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers;
and
(c) at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property and, from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial,
economic and technical practices.


﻿- 8 -
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall not make or permit the
Bureau to make any change in the operation or organization of the
Bureau without a prior exchange of views with the Association.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
necessary to ensure that the Bureau obtain as and when needed the
fuel necessary for its operations.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall cause the Bureau to main-
tain procedures satisfactory to the Association for tVe monitor-
ing of the operations and output of the Bureau.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the Bureau
continue to monitor on a continuous basis the volume of traffic
on its major highways in accordance with a program satisfactory
to the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any of the legislation cited in Section 1.02 (a) of
this Agreement shall have been modified, or any other law or
regulation shall have been adopted, or the Bureau shall have been
reorganized, in such a manner as to threaten the ability of the
Borrower to carry out the Project through the Bureau as provided
in this Agreement; and
(b) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant, loan or credit made to
the Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the   terms  of   the   agreement   providing
therefor; or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.


﻿- 9 -
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancella-
tion, termination or prematuring is not caused by
the failutre of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; or
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has established an inter-
departmental technical committee which includes at least repre-
sentatives of the Bureau, of commercial petroleum distributors,
and of the Departments of Energy, Economy and Public Works, to
monitor and to make recommendations to the Borrower concerning
the levels and structure of taxes on automotive fuels.
Section 7.02. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
IV and V of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall cease on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlinr.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Commissioner of State of the Borrower responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Dfpartemed,, des Finances
Botte Pos ale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                     Telex:
DENFIN                             21161 KIN GOMBE
Kinshasa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI),
89650 (WUT) or
197677 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through the%r
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Spares parts,            20,890,000         100% of foreign
supplies,                                  expenditures,
materials and                              80% of local
equipment for                              expenditures for
road mainte-                               ex-factory price
nance, bridges                             and 75% of other
and ferries                                local expendi-
tures
(2) Civil works              20,920,000         65%
(3) Consultants'              3,400,000         100% of foreign
and experts'                               expenditures and
services                                   80% of local
(except for                               expenditures
training)
(4) Data processing           1,370,000         100% of foreign
equipment, soft-                           expenditures and
ware and main-                             80% of local
temance contract;                          expenditures
telecommuni-
cation equipment


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR-Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5) Training and              1,680,000          100%
fellowships,
including
equipment,
tools, books,
training
materials and
consultants'
services
therefor
(6) Unallocated               7,240,000
TOTAL              55,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for expenditures
made prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to provide more efficient
and reliable communications between the country's principal
centers of economic activity and to stimulate development of the
agricultural sector by facilitating transport and marketing of
agricultural products.    More specifically, the Project aims to
(i) continue and consolidate on-going country-wide road, bridge
and ferry rehabilitation and maintenance programs and (ii)
strengthen the administration and training capabilities of the
Bureau.
Part A:
Routine and periodic maintenance of paved roads, earth and
gravel roads and of ferries.
Part B:
Carrying out a survey of the infrastructure of about 50
bridges, repair of piles and abutments of 15 bridges and main-
tenance, repair and replacement of steel superstructures as
needed, nationwide.
Part C:
Construction of access ramps for ferries at Pinanga, Kutu,
Lusambo, Bena-Dibele, Kabwe, Bolomba, Basankusu, Yate, Aketi and
Ndu.
Part D:
Strengthening the administrative and operative capacity of
the Bureau through:
1.   improvement and expansion of its management information
system;
2.   establishing a cost-accounting system;
3.   assessing the use of solar energy in its production unit;


﻿- 15 -
4.   improving the procedures of its General Services Department
in order to provide more efficient service;
5.   mapping of quarries;
6.   strengthening the management of the equipment fleet and of
the organization of the procurement department of the Public Work
Equipment Management Service, principally through the revisions
of procedures, the improvement of information flows and the
introduction of data processing;
7.   the installation of a computerized data base for personnel
management and training;
8.   the improvement of the telecommunications system by the
installation of additional telex machines, fixed and mobile radio
telephones and other necessary equipment; and
9.   carrying out a study for the improvement of working condi-
tions and technical capabilities of pubic works contractors.
Part E:
Training: the provision of training to staff in civil works
techniques, accounting, finance and data processing, and the
adoption of procedures to monitor training programs; the provi-
sion of about 33 fellowships for high-level staff; the acquisi-
tion for use in the foregoing of equipment, tools, books and
other teaching materials.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDUUI 3
Special Account A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (6) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the   term  "Authorized   Allocation"  means  an   amount
equivalent to $750,000 dollars to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in Special Account A pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of Special Account A shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that Special Account A has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the Authorized Alloca-
tion, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit in Special Account A such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of Special Account A at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into Special Account A such amounts as shall be required to
replenish Special Account A with amounts not exceeding the amount
of payments made out of Special Account A for eligible expendi-
tures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association


﻿- 17 -
from the Credit Account under the respective Categories (1)
through (6), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of         Special
Account A for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into Special Account A shall be made
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
minus the amount of any outstanding qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Bor-
rower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in Special Account A as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account A (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 18 -
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
Special Account A (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into Special Account A shall
be made until the Borrower has made the deposit or refund
requested.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account A will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
I.   The following table sets the timetable for the main actions
required from the Bureau to implement the Project.
Main Actions                      Schedule of Actions
A.   Road and Ferry Maintenance
(i) Procurement of equipment for
road maintenance
(a) submission to the Association     September 30, 1985
of a final list of equipment
to be financed with the Credit
(b) submission of bidding docu-       From November 1, 1985
ments to the Association         to March 31, 1986
(c) submission of bids evaluations    From February 1, 1986
to the Association               to June 30, 1986
(d) award of contracts                From March 1, 1986 to
September 30, 1986
(ii) Procurement of spare parts,
supplies and tools for road
maintenance equipment and
ferries; of materials; and of
equipment and tools for manual
maintenance
(a) submission of bidding docu-       From September 30,
ments to the Association         1985 to December 31,
when necessary                   1986
(b) request to suppliers for          From September 30,
quotations                       1985 to December 31,
1986
(c) submission of bids evalua-        From April 1, 1986 to
tions to the Association         June 30, 1987
when necessary


﻿- 20 -
Main Actions                       Schedule of Actions
(d) award of contractsl/              From April 1, 1986 to
October 31, 1988
(iii) Rehabilitation of earth and
gravel roads by contractors
(a) selection of consultants          From December 1, 1985
to March 31, 1986
(b) preliminary designs and           From April 1, 1986 to
preparation of bidding            September 30, 19P6
documents
(c) invitations to bid,               From October 1, 1986
awards of contracts and          to March 31, 1987
mobilization of contractors
(d) execution of works                From April 1, 1987 to
December 31, 1988
B.   Bridge Repair and Maintenance
(i) Repair of piles and abutments
(a) survey of the infra-              From January 1, 1986
structure; preparation           to December 31, 1986
and submission to the
Association of bidding
documents
(b) submission of bids evalua-        From July 1, 1986 to
tions to the Association         March 31, 1987
(c) award of contracts                From October 1, 1986
to June 30, 1987
(ii) Procurement of steel super-
structures and maintenance and
repair tools and supplies
(a) submission of bidding             From January 1, 1986
documents to the Associa-         to June 30, 1986
tion when necessary
1/   Contracts for a total cost in foreign exchange of no less
than US$13.5 million equivalent will be awarded by Decem-
ber 31, 1986.


﻿- 21 -
Main Actions                      Schedule of Actions
(b)  request to suppliers for         From January 1, 1986
quotations                       to June 30, 1986
(c)  submission of bids evalua-       From April 1, 1986
tions to the Association         to September 30, 1986
when necessary
(d)  award of contracts               From June 1, 1986 to
November 30, 1986
C.   Construction of Access Ramps for Ferries
(a)  submission of bidding            From January 1, 1986
documents to the Associa-        to September 30, 1986
(b)  submission of bids evalua-       From April 1, 1986 to
tions to the Administrator       December 31, 1986
(c)  award of contracts               From October 1, 1986
to March 31, 1987
D.   Strengthening the Administrative
and Operative Capacity of the Bureau
(i) Consulting services
(a)  submission of letters of         From July 1, 1985 to
invitation to the Admini-        September 3G, 1986
strator
(b)  submission of evaluations        From January 1, 1986
of consultants' proposals        to January 31, 1987
to the Administrator
(c)  signature of contracts           From March 1, 1986 to
March 31, 1987
(ii) Office equipment
(a)  submission of bidding            From January 1, 1986
documents to the Administrator   to June 30, 1986


﻿- 22 -
Main Actions                       Schedule of Actions
(b) submission of bids evalua-        From April 1, 1986 to
tions to the Admionistrator      September 30, 1986
(c)  award of contracts               From July 1, 1986 to
December 31, 1986
E.   Training
(i)  Consulting services for training
(a)  submission of letter s of        From July 1, 1985 to
invitation to the Administrator  December 31, 1985
(b)  submission of evaluation of      From January 1, 1986
consultants' proposals to        to June 30, 1986
the Association
(c)  signature of contracts           From March 1, 1986 to
August 31, 1986
(ii) Fellowships
(a) submission to the Association     October 31, 1985
of comprehensive list of
trainees and training objec-
tives
(b) submission of comprehensive       January 31, 1986
program including choice of
training institutes
(c) signature of contracts            From April 1, 1985 to
May 31, 1986
(iii) Equipment, tools, books and
teaching materials
(a) submission of bidding docu-       From February 1, 1986
ments to the Association          to May 31, 1986
when necessary
(b) request to suppliers for          From February 1, 1986
quotations                       to May 31, 1986


﻿- 23 -
Main Actions                      Schedule of Actions
(c)  submission of bid evaluations    From May 1, 1986 to
to the Association when          September 30, 1986
necessary
(d) award of contracts                From August 1, 1986 to
January 31, 1987
II. The following table sets the operational objectives of the
Bureau:
Maintenance Activity       Unit             Outpouts/Year
1986        1987       1988
Paved Road Maintenance     m2      110,000      116,000    122,000
Grading                    km       40,000      49,000     52,000
Manual Maintenance         km       13,000       14,000     15,000
Culvert Maintenance        m         6,600       6,900       7,200
Bridge Maintenance         m         8,100       8,400       8,800
Regravelling               m3      830,000     870,000     920,000
Rehabilitation             km        2,600       2,750       2,900
(1,000 m3/km)


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A. International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
2.   Goods to be financed under the Credit shall be procured only
on the basis of lists approved by the Association.
3.   Goods to be procured shall be grouped as far as practicable
into bidding packages of a value of at least $100,000 equivalen-
for the purposes of inviting bids.
Part B. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in Zaire may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C. Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works under Parts B and C of the Project
may be procured on the basis of the competitive bidding proce-
dures of the Borrower and local advertising as described in para-
graph 3.3 of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of spare parts, supplies, tools,
materials and training equipment which cannot practically be
included in economical bidding packages of a value of at least
$100,000 equivalent for the purpose of inviting bids, may be
procured through international and domestic shopping as described
in paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines; provided, however, that the
total value of such goods so procured shall not, without the
prior approval of the Association, exceed the equivalent of
$750,000.


﻿- 25 -
3.   Contracts for the purchase of proprietary spare parts may be
procured by direct negotiation pursuant to paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines; provided, however, that the total value of such goods
so procured shall not, without the prior approval of the Associa-
tion, exceed the equivalent of $1.25 million.
4.   Contracts for the supply of steel bridge superstructures may
be procured by direct negotiation pursuant to paragraph 3.5 of
the Guidelines.
5.   Works under Part A of the Project may be carried out on the
basis of the competitive bidding advertized locally as set forth
in paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines or under force account, as
agreed with the Association.
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procuremeat Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures sot forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2. The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in managing the Bureau, in
carrying out the preliminary designs and the supervision of the
works under Part A of the Project, in carrying out the survey
included in Part B of the Project and in carrying out Parts D
and E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ construction,


﻿- 26 -
mechanical, engineering, economic, management and training con-
sultants and experts, whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants and experts shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198sL2
FORSECRETARY


