Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3175-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
SECOND TREE CROPS PROJECT
December 10, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Baht (B)
$1.00            =   B 23
B 1                  $0.04
B 1 million          $43,478
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)   = 2.47 acres
1 meter (m)       = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAAC   -   Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
MOAC   -   Ministry  of Agriculture and Cooperatives
ORRAF  -   Office of the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund Board
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
SECOND TREE CROPS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiary:      Rubber Replanting Aid Fund
Amount:           $142 million equivalent
Terms:            20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 11.6% per annum.
Relending Terms: $141.3 million of loan would be passed to the Rubber
Replanting Aid Fund as a grant.
Project
Description:   The objectives of the project are:  (a) to increase the
income level of smallholders living on relatively poor
soils in rainfed areas by expanding rubber production;
(b) to help improve the country's balance of payments by
increasing rubber exports; and (c) to lay the foundation
for further development of the tree crop subsector
nationwide. The project includes: (a) a four-year time
slice of the Office of the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund
Board's (ORRAF) program, including (i) replanting of
rubber trees at a rate of about 50,000 ha p.a., (ii)
continuation and completion of replantings already started
(212,000 ha), (iii) training of staff in the cultivation
of coconut and its intercrops, and (iv) provision of
technical support to a pilot scheme for new rubber
planting; and (b) strengthening the capabilities of the
Department of Agriculture, the Land Development Department
and the Office of Agricultural Economics to plan and carry
out programs for rubber and coconut development, including
the preparation of a tree crop subsector study. Benefits
of the proposed project are widely distributed, with more
than half accruing to the low-income target group. There
are only minor risks since the rubber replanting program
has already proved to be successful. Except for scattered
insurgency problems, which could retard development in
very remote areas, the project has a very high chance of
success.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                               Local  Foreign  Total
($ million) ----
Rubber replanting                           122.7   110.8   233.5
Rubber research                               2.7      1.2     3.9
Coconut development                           0.2      0.2     0.4
ORRAF administration                         39.1      6.2    45.3
Training and technical
assistance                                  0.1     0.3      0.4
Subtotal                               164.8   118.7   283.5
Physical contingencies                        0.3      0.2     0.5
Price contingencies                          50.2    24.6    74.8
Subtotal                                50.5    24.8    75.3
Total Project Cost                     215.3   143.5   358.8
Financing Plan:
Local  Foreign  Total
---- ($ million) ----
Government                                   31.8      1.5 /1 33.3
ORRAF                                       165.0        -   165.0
Commonwealth Development Corporation         18.5        -    18.5
IBRD                                            -   142.0   142.0
215.3   143.5   358.8
Estimated Disbursements
from Bank Loan:
Bank FY          1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
--------------- ($ million) ----------------
Annual          1.3    15.5    30.5    36.4    40.5    17.8
Cumulative      1.3    16.8    47.3    83.7   124.2   142.0
Rate of Return: 15%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3404b-TH, dated November 30, 1981.
/1 Government intends to seek UNDP grant to cover part of project costs.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND FOR
A SECOND TREE CROPS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $142 million to help
finance a Second Tree Crops Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% p.a. The Commonwealth
Development Corporation of the United Kingdom would make available a loan of
E 10 million ($18.5 million equivalent) to the Kingdom of Thailand on the
same terms as the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand:  Toward a Development
Strategy of Full Participation" (Report No. 2059-TH) was issued on September
18, 1978. Subsequently Thailand's economic situation deteriorated, and an
economic report entitled "Coping with Structural Change in a Dynamic Economy
(Report No. 3067a-TH)," which proposed a medium-term strategy to deal with
the problems was discussed with the Royal Thai Government in September 1980
and issued on January 8, 1981. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Frequent changes at the top levels of government have character-
ized recent political developments in Thailand. General Kriangsak Chomanan
was Prime Minister from November 1977 to February 1980. His third cabinet
resigned following increasing public and parliamentary criticism of its
economic policies. General Prem Tinsulanonda was elected by the National
Assembly as Prime Minister after receiving the support of nearly all major
political parties. General Prem's government, formed in March 1980,
included leaders from the political parties which supported him. General
Prem soon announced his government's policies on a number of issues
including economic and social development. These policies place high and
immediate priority on accelerating rural development, raising rural incomes
and improving health and education. Particular emphasis was given to
generating more jobs, and a rural public works program, similar to the
1975/76 Tambon Program, was included as a major element in the strategy.
The Government also committed itself to contain inflation, although it
recognized the need for a substantial adjustment of energy prices and most
public enterprise tariffs. Furthermore, it decided to institute reforms in
monetary and fiscal policy and to reduce the trade deficit through improved
export performance and development of domestic energy resources.



- 2 -
4.        After a period of political consolidation, during which an attempt
was also made to inform the public better about the need to take corrective
measures, the Government began to take steps to implement these policies in
the fall of 1980. In March 1981, however, the Social Action Party and other
coalition parties withdrew from the cabinet on an issue of handling fuel oil
contracts and a new cabinet was formed comprising members of the United,
Chart Thai, and Democrat parties as well as a number of technocrats. Shortly
thereafter there was an attempted coup by a group of military officers which,
however, failed. During much of the summer of 1981, the political position
of the second Prem cabinet appeared to he weak, particularly in the wake of
the devaluation of the baht against the dollar in July, which resulted in
much public criticism. Since then, however, the Prime Minister's position
appears to have strengthened, not least because of the relatively favorable
economic developments, especially in the agricultural sector. Parliament
has passed the FY82 budget nearly unanimously, and there appears to be broad
support for the cabinet's economic and social policies.
Past Economic Trends and Recent Changes
5.        The 1960s and early 1970s were a period of unprecedented economic
development in Thailand, with GDP growth averaging 7-8% per year (or 4 to 5%
per capita). Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% per year, based largely
on an expansion in cultivated area and development of new crops in response
to export opportunities, was a major factor contributing to these develop-
ments as well as to a sustained growth of exports. An increase in the
investment level from about 20% to 27% of GDP contributed to rapid indus-
trial growth. Investments were largely financed by domestic savings, keep-
ing the debt service ratio quite low. The incidence of poverty was reduced
substantially, from about 57% in 1962/63 to about 31% by 1975/76. However,
poverty still remains a problem, and significant regional disparities exist,
with the Central Region, including Bangkok, not only having the highest per
capita income, but also being much better served by roads, telecommunica-
tions, schools, public health and other services than the other three regions,
the North, the Northeast and the South. Considerable variations also remain
within regions: farmers who have diversified into the new cash crops have
in many cases succeeded in crossing the poverty line, while the incomes of
those unable to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated. By
the mid-1970s it became apparent that Thailand was facing increasingly
difficult problems of development, including the lack of new arable land to
continue to absorb the rapidly growing labor force, and an emerging balance
of payments constraint as a result of deteriorating terms of trade. In
order to deal with such problems the country needed to shift its pattern of
growth from one based on the extension of land under cultivation and on
import substituting industries to one based on increasingly intensive use of
land and on industries producing for domestic and export markets under
competitive conditions.



6.        In the past three years Thailand's development problems have been
compounded by adverse external factors including oil price increases, a
resurgence of inflation and slow growth in developed countries. A rela-
tively high rate of overall growth was maintained (8.7% per annum between
1975 and 1978, 6.0% in 1979 and 6.3% in 1980) but this was accompanied by
accelerating inflation, large fiscal and external deficits and growing
dependence on foreign borrowing. Consumer prices increased by 8% in 1977
and 1978, by 10% in 1979 and by 20% in 1980. The overall Central Government
deficit reached 4.4% of GDP in 1980. Notwithstanding continued rapid export
growth, the current accovnt deficit came close to 5% of GDP in 1977 and
1978, but it rose to 7.5% of GDP in 1979 and 7.0% of GDP in 1980;
consequently there has been a rapid accumulation of Thailand's initially low
external debt.
7.        Over the years 1975-78 the Government was slow in responding to
the changing internal and external conditions, but, beginning in 1979,
policy adjustments were undertaken at a gradually accelerating pace. They
included sharp increases in prices for most petroleum products and
electricity, measures to increase government revenues, amendments to the
usury laws, which permitted an increase in interest rates, and the
introduction of regulations to increase financial stability and exercise
more monetary restraint.  In the second half of 1980, the Government began
to give serious attention to developing a longer-term comprehensive program
for the economy, and continued to implement necessary, but politically
contentious, economic decisions. In October 1980 price controls were lifted
on 29 of 36 goods.  In the same month the Government started oL a reform of
the tariff structure, reducing import duties on 10 categories of electrical
goods by between 10% and 60%. In November, retail prices of sugar, which
had fallen out of line with international prices, causing domestic
shortages, were increased by 60%. In a number of successive steps,
electricity and petroleum prices were increased further, and by mid-1981
they were nearly two--and-a-half times as high as at the start of 1979.
During the first half of 1981, charges for other public services (water,
transport, communications) were increased substantially (mostly by at least
50%). During this period, the Government also introduced various fiscal
measures designed to limit the central government deficit.
8.        Despite the effect that these measures inevitably had on the price
level and on effective demand, economic performance in most areas appears to
have been good during the first nine months of 1981. Agricultural
production and incomes increased rapidly, due to favorable weather and,
until recently, agricultural export prices (which a domestic rice price
support program helped to reflect in farmgate prices). The demand and
interindustry effects of a buoyant agricultural sector are stimulating the
other sectors of the economy, largely compensating for the reduced stimulus
from the public sector. Thus, while some sectors of the economy, notably
construction, are weak, the authorities do not foresee a general recession.



- 4 -
At the same time, price pressures have lessened considerably; on a June to
June basis, th2 increase in the Consumer Price Index of 24% for 1979/80 was
reduced to 12% for 1980/81. Because of reduced inflation and increased
nominal interest rates, real interest rates on 1-2 year time deposits have
now become positive, and private commercial borrowing entails a substantial
real cost.
9.         The one area in which the situation did not improve in the first
half of 1981, was the balance of payments. The trade deficit in that period
was $1.6 billion, about $0.5 billion more than in the first half of 1980.
Some deterioration was to be expected, as the deficit in 1980 had been below
trend as a result of a bulge in imports of non-oil intermediates in 1979,
which led to a below-normal level of such imports in 1980. In addition,
exports in the first quarter of 1981 fell below the trend, while the capital
account was negatively influenced by high interest rates abroad. In July,
the pressure on the balance of payments became so strong that the Government
decided to break the longstanding link of the baht to the (then rapidly
appreciating) dollar, decreasing the dollar value of the baht by about 9%,
but keeping the trade-weighted exchange rate of the baht approximately at
the level of the preceding year. Subsequently, the trade deficit has
started to decrease, but for the year 1981 as a whole, it is still likely
that the current account deficit will be somewhat higher than the 1980
deficit in absolute amount, although it may be slightly lower (6-7% of GDP)
in relative terms.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.        In the coming decade, many of the positive features which contri-
buted to Thailand's rapid socio-economic development over the past two
decades will continue to do so. These factors include a relatively
equitable distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to
economic incentives and improved technology, provision of infrastructure by
the Government, and the dynamism of the private sector in both industry and
agriculture. Also, major gains have been made in family planning in recent
years, slowing the annual rate of population growth from about 3% during the
1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979 (but only affecting labor force growth
two decades later). A new favorable factor is that the infrastructure to
tap the substantial natural gas reserves which have been discovered in the
Gulf of Siam has just been completed, enabling a gradual but significant
reduction in Thailand's dependence on foreign oil.
11.       Against these favorable factors, however, three major negative
ones must be recognized. Firstly, partly as a result of external influences,
Thailand's current account deficits have over the years 1979-81 reached
levels which are unsustainable in the medium term and therefore must be
reduced. Secondly, the outlook for the world economy is not favorable, and
tendencies toward protectionism are increasing, thus limiting the
opportunity to increase exports (unless offset by effective domestic



- 5 -
policies). Thirdly, the exhaustion of land reserves threatens to severely
constrain Lhe growth in agricultural production, exports and absorption of
labor.
12.       In response to the challenges posed by the general economic out-
look for Thailand, the Government has searched intensively for policy
alternatives which would correct the fiscal and external imbalances without
undue consequences for the growth of incomes and employment, especially for
the poor. Its efforts are reflected in the Fifth Five-Year Plan, which
covers the period October 1981 to September 1986. The major (and inter-
related) objectives are equity, financial stability, and national security
(growth is seen as a derived, rather than a primary objective). The
Government aims at reconciling these objectives over the five-year period of
the Plan, partly through a reduction in lower-priority expenditures, which
is already being implemented, but mainly through medium-term structural
adjustments which improve production incentives and increase the efficiency
of the economy, and improve its competitiveness, both in the external and
domestic markets.
13.       To assist it in realizing these objectives, the Government has
sought the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. Agreement was reached with
the Fund on a major standby program, which covers a two-year period starting
in April 1981, and amounts to SDR 814.5 million.  In addition, the Fund in
July 1981 provided Thailand with SDR 186 million under its Compensatory
Financing Facility. With regard to the Bank, the Government has requested
assistance in further developing and implementing the structural adjustment
program, incorporated in the Fifth Plan, through a series of structural
adjustment loans. An appraisal mission for the first such loan visited
Thailand in August/September and negotiations are scheduled for early
December.
Financing Requirements
14.       While the Government is making considerable efforts to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of policies
needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress will require
continued growth in the absolute level of public expenditures, though they
are expected to remain constant relative to GDP. Much greater efforts will
be required to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the
past. The Government's domestic revenue, as a percent of GDP (about 14% for
1978 to 1980), is low compared to other developing countries at similar
levels of development. Recently the Government has achieved a modest improve-
ment in its revenues through revision of the tax structure and improved
collections. Further tax measures are planned, particularly in the area of
improved tax administration and structure. The goal is to increase Central
Government revenues to about 18% of GDP by 1986, thus substantially reducing
the budgetary deficits and thereby limiting the reliance on foreign
financing. In addition, the financial situation of state enterprises, which



- 6 -
has already improved substantially in the wake of recent tariff increases,
is expected to continue improving as a result of appropriate pricing
policies.
15.       Despite these fiscal policy measures and the ambitious structural
adjustment policies to be implemented in the agriculture, industry and energy
sectors, the demand for external resources will increase. Macroeconomic
projections indicate that the current account deficit will remain at a level
of some $2 billion per annum, but will decline as a share of GDP.  Even the
realization of this target will require large amounts of external borrowing,
totalling more than $20 billion over the period 1982-87, of which about half
is expected to be in the form of public and publicly guaranteed debt.
Assuming a significant level of concessional assistance, total debt service
payments as a percent of exports of goods and non-factor services will rise
from 11.6% in 1980 to over 15% in 1987. Given the diversification of Thai
commodity exports and the continued expansion of agricultural and
manufactured exports expected as a result of appropriate structural
adjustment policies, these debt service requirements should be sustainable.
16.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks,
have been expanding their programs to meet a larger part of Thailand's
growing resource requirements.  The rest has been financed through syndicated
loans and bond issues. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy
Committee to coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public
sector. The Bank of Thailand is improving its procedures for recording
private borrowing abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt.
External agencies, including the Bank Group, have in recent years increasing-
ly concentrated on project lending to Thailand in some sectors that have
high social benefits, but low foreign exchange savings or earnings. To
achieve the level of external resource transfer that is now required, it is
necessary, in selected projects where the foreign exchange component is low,
to finance some local currency expenditures.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
17.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of September 30, 1981, had received 66 IBRD loans (including
two third window loans) and six IDA credits, totaling (net of cancellation)
$2,266 million in loans and $125 million in credits. As of that date,
$939.15 million remain undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No IDA
credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as well as
the status of Bank Group projects under implementation.
18.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans has been as follows:
$821 million for energy; $566 million for agriculture and rural development;



$446 million for transportation; $153 million for telecommunications; $149
million for urban development; $81 million for industry; and $52 million for
education. Of the six IDA credits, two credits totaling $55 million have
been extended for education; one credit of $25 million for rural develop-
ment; one credit of $33 million for a population project; and two credits
totaling $12.5 million for irrigation.
19.       Over the past six years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY75) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government-s
efforts to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since
FY76 investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for about 60% of Bank Group lending and about
half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed to
benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 30%
of lending operations since FY76. The design of projects in this sector
has also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more bal-
anced program covering irrigation (including land development and support
services to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farm-
ers outside the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricul-
tural extension, research and credit, and rural development). Projects in
the social sectors, which prior to FY76 were limited to three in education
accounting for 6% of the program, have both diversified and grown. In recent
years education, population and low-income housing projects have accounted for
about 10% of the program.
20.       For the future, the Bank's assistance objectives are to support the
Government's development efforts, as articulated in its Fifth Five-Year Plan
for the period 1982-1986, to address: (a) the long-term issues of poverty
alleviation, promotion of employment, and reduction of income disparities; and
(b) the medium-term issue of restructuring the Thai economy through the inten-
sification of agriculture, efficient development of the industrial sector,
promotion of domestic energy conservation and development, increased public
resource mobilization, and improved institutional capacity in the public
sector. In addition to these two broad objectives, Bank assistance in
Thailand also aims at moving from project-specific to sectoral lending,
especially in agriculture, industry, energy, and education, and at strengthen-
ing the local Thai capacity for policy analysis and formulation.
21.       In implementing this strategy, projects in the areas of agriculture
and rural development will seek to generate employment and income growth
particularly among the poorer farm households in the rainfed areas of the
country and will support the structural adjustment process by aiming at
continued growth of agricultural production and exports through intensi-
fication. Lending for transport and communications will increasingly aim at
expanding the rural road system and thus be in support of agricultural and
rural development for the medium and longer term. In the urban development



- 8 -
and human resources sectors, Bank lending will be geared to strengthening the
long-term capacity of Thailand to transform itself efficiently from a
primarily agricultural and rural economy to a relatively more industrial and
urban economy, while also supporting the Government's goal to address basic
human needs in the more disadvantaged rural and urban areas of the country.
Lending in the energy and industry sectors will be designed to support
structural adjustment and growth through the efficient development and
utilization of domestic energy resources and the strengthening of the
financial infrastructure. Finally, structural adjustment lending will
strengthen the Government's structural adjustment program through studies,
development of action programs, and policy actions in the areas of agri-
culture, industry, energy, fiscal policy, and institutional development.
22.       Bank loans and IDA credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding,
amounted to $900.9 million as of September 30, 1981. As of December 31,
1980, Bank and IDA debt disbursed and outstanding accounted for 11.7% of
total debt (disbursed and outstanding), while the Bank Group-s share of
total debt service payments amounted to 8.3% in 1980. This is not excessive
in view of Thailand's modest overall external debt (18% of GDP in 1980) and
the declining shares of Bank debt in total debt, and of Bank debt service in
total debt service.
23.       As of September 30, 1981, IFC had made commitments totalling
$110.6 million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enter-
prises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity, and consultations
with the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may
be needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed soda ash project to serve the ASEAN community; projects in the
petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector; and projects in the agricul-
tural sector. In addition to a tantalum processing project which is being
considered by IFC management, IFC has recently appraised a shrimp farming
venture.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
24.       The agricultural sector currently employs, on a full-time or part-
time basis, about 75% of the labor force, produces about 30% of gross
domestic product, and provides about 60% of total export earnings. The
overall growth of the sector has been excellent, averaging about 5% p.a.
during 1960-79. This has come largely from an expansion of the area under
cultivation (about 4% p.a. until the mid-1970s) along with a movement into
higher valued crops. However, the availability of readily accessible new
land for expanding agriculture now seems to be nearly completely exhausted,
and this has led to a steady encroachment on forest reserves and on land
only marginally suitable for stable agriculture.



- 9 -
25.       With about 4.5 million farm families occupying about 24 million
ha, farm sizes are necessarily small, but the size distribution is not
particularly skewed. Ninety percent of the cultivated area is rainfed and
only 10% irrigated. The total area under holdings has not expanded
significantly over the past five years, and recent production increases have
resulted mainly from more intensive use of land within holdings.  In
irrigated areas, intensification of land use has taken place principally
through the use of higher yielding varieties of crops, complemented with
higher use of technical inputs such as fertilizer and pesticides.  In the
1979/80 season, rice was planted on over 60% of the cultivated area, rubber
on 10%, maize and cassava each on about 8%, and sugarcane on 5%.  In parts of
the rainfed areas, the poor natural resource base and the lack of an
appropriate technology seriously constrain increased agricultural production
and continued improvement in incomes.
26.       The benefits of growth have been relatively well distributed
throughout the country. Since most agricultural production is by small-
holders, most of the income growth in the sector has accrued to the rural
producers themselves. The overall incidence of poverty has been reduced from
about 57% in the early 1960s to about 31% by the mid-1970s, and from about 61%
to 35% in the rural areas.
Government Objectives and Strategy
27.       The main objectives of the Government's agricultural policy are:
(a) to increase agricultural production as rapidly as possible; (b) to alle-
viate rural poverty and to redress interregional income disparities; and
(c) to expand agricultural exports rapidly so as to improve the balaace of
payments.  Its strategy for achieving these objectives involves the creation
of an environment which gives the private sector the needed incentives and
confidence to boost production and exports; the development of public sector
infrastructure and services to facilitate the achievement of sector objec-
tives; and the establishment of the required legal and regulatory framework
to give individual farmers title to their land and a clear demarcation of
zones reserved for forestry and conservation.
28.       The Bank fully supports the broad outline of the Government's objec-
tives and strategies, and its lending program for Tliailand-s agriculture has
two underlying aims:  to improve the technical and infrastructural bases for
improving productivity, and to increase the Government-s overall capacity for
project planning, coordination and implementation. Where at all possible,
projects are oriented toward meeting the needs of poor people and communities.
The main activities supported by the Bank in agriculture are irrigation, tree
crop development, research, land development, extension services, credit,
rural infrastructure, and projects designed to address rural poverty.
29.       Two Project Completion Reports have been prepared for Bank-assisted
agricultural projects, one for the Sirikit Dam (Ln. 514-TH) and one for the
Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project (Cr. 379-TH). These two projects
were the subject of a joint Project Performance Audit Report. The Sirikit
Dam project was very successful, made a major contribution to the rapid



- 10 -
expansion of dry season cropping in the Chao Phya Basin and was a timely
addition to the country's power production. The Chao Phya project was also
successfully completed and has provided valuable experience to the
Government in the planning, design and implementation of an intensive mode
of on-farm development. It was found, during implementation of the Chao
Phya project, that operation and maintenance of both the main and farm level
systems required some improvements and, under more recent projects, steps
have been taken to strengthen the capability of the Royal Irrigation
Department in this function, mainly through provision for consulting
services to assist the Department to develop operation and maintenance
procedures in these project areas.
The Tree Crop Subsector
30.       Tree crops, including rubber, coconut, coffee, cocoa, oil palm
and fruit trees, now account for at least 15% of the planted area in Thailand,
10% of the production value, and over 20% of agricultural export value.
Rubber is by far the single most important tree crop, and contributes about
12% of the country's foreign exchange earnings. It grows mainly in the
South and East (about 1.6 million ha), and is predominantly a smallholder
crop. Rubber production has been increasing at about 6% p.a. over the past
two decades largely as a result of a successful rubber replanting program
administered through the Office of the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund Board
(ORRAF), whereby low-yielding averaged rubber is being replaced by high-
yielding rubber at the rate of about 50,000 ha p.a. (paras. 35-37). There
is also considerable scope for expanding the planting of high-yielding rubber
varieties into new areas of the South and East, and possibly the North
and Northeast.
31.       Coconut is the second most important tree crop in Thailand.
Extensive coconut plantings (440,000 ha) are found in the South, where an
estimated 90,000 ha of coconut are due for replanting and about 65,000 ha
may be suitable for rehabilitation through the use of inputs and/or
intercropping with coffee or cocoa. Yields and production of coconut are low,
and at present supply falls short of domestic demand by about 10%. There is
considerable scope for production increases through a major replanting or new
planting program using hybrid plant material and the required inputs.
32.       Oil palm covers about 12,000 ha in the South in three land settle-
ment schemes, of which 5,000 ha are due for replanting and 7,000 ha could be
rehabilitated. Plantings of other tree crops such as coffee, cocoa and fruit
trees are widely scattered. Some coffee and cocoa is intercropped in coconut
stands, while fruit trees are mainly grown on house lots and in commercial
orchards.
Institutional Arrangements
33.       The responsibilities of agencies involved in the tree crop subsector
are for the most part clearly defined. Planning for the subsector is carried



- 11 -
out by the Office of Agricultural Economics in the Ministry of Agriculture
and Cooperatives (MOAC). Research and the production of foundation stock
for all tree crops is the responsibility of the Department of Agriculture.
All of the Department s rubber-related activities are handled by its Rubber
Division and Rubber Research Center, while coconut and the other tree crops
come under its llorticulture Division. Nurseries to provide planting material
to farmers are the responsibility of the Department, which may delegate
authority to provide this service to the agency responsible for assisting
farmers to establish the crop. For example, ORRAF handles nearly all the
nurseries for rubber replanting. Regular extension services during the
productive years of the trees are provided by the Department of Agricultural
Extension. Credit is supplied either by the Bank for Agriculture and Agri-
cultural Cooperatives (BAAC) or private banks. The provision of inputs is
either through normal commercial channels, or, in the case of replanted
rubber, through ORRAF. Marketing and processing are carried out effectively
and efficiently by the private sector in Thailand.
34.       Except in the case of rubber replanting, technical and financial
support for tree crops has not proved adequate to stimulate the potential
development of this sector. Because of the long gestation period and,
therefore, perceived higher risk of investing time and money in tree crop
development, special efforts are needed to help smallholders establish tree
crops, particularly during the immature period when needs are the greatest.
Recognizing this need, the Government has initiated a pilot scheme for rubber
new planting, with BAAC providing long-term credit and ORRAF giving technical
support. A study included in the proposed project would assess this scheme
and the financial, technical and institutional implications of expanded tree
crop development.
The Rubber Replanting Program
35.       The Rubber Replanting Aid Fund was established in 1960 to carry out
a program of rubber replanting designed to limit, and eventually reverse,
the decline in rubber yields and ensure that rubber smallholdings remain
viable economic units. ORRAF administers the Fund which receives its monies
through a general cess levied on rubber exports, supplemented when necessary
by Government subventions. The rubber replanting scheme calls for the
provision of technical and financial support to smallholders who wish to
replace existing overaged rubber with new high-yielding varieties. Small-
holders receive replanting grants from ORRAF, both in kind (high-yielding
clonal plant material and required inputs such as fertilizers and agro-
chemicals) and in cash (after satisfactory completion of specified tasks)
throughout the immature period of the rubber.
36.       Between 1960 and 1975, about 180,000 ha of overaged rubber were
successfully replanted under the replanting program. An assessment carried
out during Bank appraisal of the Rubber Replanting Project (Ln. 1234-TH) in
1975 indicated, however, that the rate of replanting needed to be increased



- 12 -
from the then current level of 20,000 ha p.a. to about 50,000 ha p.a. in
order to eliminate the existing backlog of low-yielding rubber and to allow
the sustained renewal of rubber stands over a 30-year cycle. That project
included the provision of the necessary financial support as well as changes
in the staffing and organizational structure of ORRAF to permit this expansion
of activities.
37.        Although loan disbursements have been somewhat slower than
initially envisaged - because of initial legal problems, security problems
in Southern Thailand, and relatively high rubber prices which caused farmers
to postpone replanting due to the increased profitability of tapping -- the
project has been a success, and is expected to be completed in early 1982,
about one year behind schedule. Replantings increased gradually and in 1981
will reach about 66,000 ha, due to improvements made by ORRAF in the process-
ing of grant applications. For the future, ORRAF anticipates maintaining a
rate of 50,000 ha p.a. About 116,000 new grants were initiated between
1977-1980, with about 95% of the grants going to farmers with rubber holdings
of less than 8 hectares. Under the Rubber Replanting Project, about
one-third of the project beneficiaries have been farmers in the low-income
target groups, i.e., those with per capita incomes less than one third of
the national average. The proposed project would allow continuation of this
successful program and would strengthen ORRAF and MOAC in the development of
other tree crops. The improved organizational features introduced under the
first project will be sustained and strengthened under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.        The proposed project was prepared by ORRAF with assistance from an
FAO/UNDP Technical Assistance Team and the Bank. The project was appraised
in September 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington from November 2 to 6,
1981. The Government and ORRAF delegations were headed by H.E. Prok Amranand,
Ambassador to the United States, and Khun Narong Suchare, Director of ORRAF.
Project Description
39.        The main objectives of the proposed project are:  to increase the
income level of smallholders living on relatively poor soils in rainfed areas
by expanding rubber production; to improve the country's balance of payments
by increasing rubber exports; and to lay the foundation for further develop-
ment of the tree crop sector nationwide. The project includes: (a) a
four-year time slice of ORRAF-s program including rubber replanting and, on
a pilot basis, technical support for new rubber planting; and (b) assistance
to the Department of Agriculture, the Land Development Department and the
Office of Agricultural Economics to strengthen their capability to support
the rubber replanting program as well as the proposed development programs
for rubber new planting, coconut and the related intercrops. A Staff



- 13 -
Appraisal Report (No. 3404b-TH, dated November 30, 1981) is being distri-
buted separately. Supplementary project data are presented in Annex III.
40.       ORRAF-s program from 1982 to 1985 includes: (a) the continuation of
its successful rubber replanting program at a rate of 50,000 ha p.a.; (b) the
continuation and completion of about 212,000 ha of replanting already started;
(c) technical support for new rubber development; and (d) training and
technical assistance for its staff in the cultivation of coconut and related
intercrops such as coffee and cocoa. The costs of ORRAF's administration and
management (civil works, equipment, vehicles, staffing and operations) and of
the consultant services of a senior agricultural advisor during the project
period are included in total project cost.
41.       The project would also assist some of the other institutions
involved in the development of rubber and coconut and related intercrops.
The Department of Agriculture would receive assistance for: (a) establishing
60 ha of hybrid coconut seed gardens in Southern Thailand; and (b) strength-
ening the research capability of the Rubber Research Center in order to cope
with a generally increasing demand for technical advice on all stages of
rubber cultivation and production, as well as ORRAF's expanding rubber
development program. Strengthening of the Rubber Research Center would be
based on a review, currently being carried out by Government, of the Center's
staffing, organization and financing needs. The Government has agreed to
submit its findings to the Bank for comment by June 30, 1982 and thereafter to
implemenL such measures as it shall deem appropriate (Section 3.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
42.       To lay the foundation for an expanded program of tree crop develop-
ment nationwide, a tree crop subsector study will be carried out. Specific-
ally the study will cover the financial, technical and institutional impli-
cations of an expanded program for development of new rubber, especially in
the North and Northeast, and of hybrid coconut and its intercrops (coffee and
cocoa) in the South. The study would be carried out by consultants (about
nine man-months of services are contemplated) under the auspices of the Office
of Agricultural Economics in MOAC, but overseen by ORRAF to ensure that the
results are readily applicable. Also, the staff of the Office of Agricultural
Economics would receive appropriate training in theeeconomic aspects of tree
crop development, processing and marketing. This would permit this Office to
more effectively formulate policy options regarding development of the tree
crop subsector and to advise the various governmental agencies involved in the
subsector. The Land Development Department would contribute to these programs
by carrying out a land-use survey of the coconut-growing areas in six
provinces in South Thailand to assess the resource base for long-range coconut
development in these provinces and, with consultant assistance, prepare a
proposal for a countrywide agricultural land-use survey, which would be an
input for the preparation of a proposed land titling project.
Project Cost and Financing
43.       The total project cost is estimated at about $358.8 million,
including a foreign exchange component of about $143.5 million (40%), with



- 14 -
taxes and duties representing about $11 million.  Physical contingencies,
averaging about 10%, have been applied to all vehicles, equipment and civil
works. Price increases for local costs were assumed at 13% in 1981, 12% in
1982 and 1983, 10% in 1984, 9% in 1985, and 8% in 1986, and those for foreign
costs at 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in 1983-1985 and 6% in 1986. Expected
price increases amount to 26% of the base cost plus physical contingencies.
The services of a senior agricultural advisor to ORRAF and the preparation
of the tree crop development study and the national land-use survey would
require a total of about 52 man-months of consultant services at an estimated
total cost of about $365,500. The cost of foreign consultants is estimated
at about $10,900/man-month (including international and local travel and
subsistence) and that of local consultants, at about $4,500/man-month.
44.       The Government intends to seek a UNDP grant of about $1.5 million to
cover the foreign exchange cost of assistance to the Rubber Research Center.
This, together with the proposed Bank loan of $142 million would cover the
full foreign exchange requirements of the project. The proposed loan would be
equivalent to 41% of project cost net of taxes and duties. The Government
would pass $141.3 million of the Bank loan to ORRAF as a grant. The remainder
would be retained by Government for expenditures incurred by MOAC. Local
expenditures amounting to about $215.3 million equivalent would be met by a
loan of E 10 million (about $18.5 million equivalent) from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation, through government budgetary allocations ($31.8
million) and ORRAF's own sources ($165 million). The Government has also
agreed that, after project completion, it will provide ORRAF with any
additional funds necessary to ensure that rubber replanted under the project
is brought into full production (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
45.       Fertilizer and chemical contracts (about $152 million) would be
procured in bulk through international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines. A preference equal to 15% of the cif cost or the
custom's duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in
the evaluation of bids.  Contracts for civil works over $500,000 (totalling
about $3.3 million) would also be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Contracts for
urgently needed fertilizers and chemicals, purchased in contracts of less than
$500,000, up to an aggregate amount of $2.5 million, may be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank.  Contracts for small civil works (less than $500,000
each), wh-ch are scattered geographically throughout the country, would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procure-
ment procedures acceptable to the Bank.  The vehicles and equipment included
in the project are of numerous types which would normally be procured in small
lots; these would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in
accordance with procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Research
equipment, coconut seed nuts, and other miscellaneous items costing less than
$15,000 each up to an aggregate amount of $1.5 million would be purchased by
prudent shopping on the basis of at least three price quotations. About 75%



- 15 -
of plant material requirements would be provided by ORRAF-s own nurseries and
by private nurseries at competitive prices. For all contracts estimated to
exceed $250,000, the Bank's prior approval would be required before
invitations to bid are issued and contracts are awarded.
Disbursement
46.       Disbursements from the Bank loan for expenditures by ORRAF would be
made against 65% of the total cost of fertilizers and chemicals; 40% of the
total cost of vehicles, equipment, planting material and civil works; 100% of
the total cost of technical assistance and training; and 30% of the total
cost of the first two installments of labor payments to rubber replanters
and of salaries of ORRAF field staff. Disbursements of the Commonwealth
Development Corporation loan would also be made against such expenditures by
ORRAF for planting materials, labor payments and salaries. Disbursement
from the Bank loan for MOAC expenditures would be as follows: 100% of
technical assistance and training; 40% of the cost of planting materials;
65% of other expenditures (civil works and goods) by the Department of
Agriculture; and 70% of other expenditures (goods) by the Land Development
Department. Disbursements from the Bank loan would be against full docu-
mentation (import documentation, contracts and certified records of payment)
except for disbursements against planting material, labor payments, and
ORRAF field staff.  For these items, disbursements would be against state-
ments of expenditure, with documentation being retained in the field for
inspection by Bank supervision missions.  It is expected that disbursements
would be completed by March 31, 1987.
Organization, Management and Finances
47.        ORRAF would be the principal project implementing agency, with
support as required from the Department of Agriculture, the Land Development
Department and the Office of Agricultural Economics. ORRAF is governed by a
Board, whose chairman is the Minister of MOAC. The Director of ORRAF is
assisted by two Deputy Directors, one for finance and administration and the
other for the technical aspects of rubber. There are 12 ORRAF provincial
offices which administer the grant payments, supervise replantings, and
provide extension services during the immature period of the rubber. ORRAF
has agreed that it will exchange views with the Bank concerning its organiz-
ation should its duties be expanded substantially (Section 3.01(b) of the
draft Project Agreement).
48.        ORRAF has three sources of funds: the rubber cess, interest income
from deposits with commercial banks, and subventions from Government. The
current allocation of ORRAF's cess revenues is 5% to its administrative
expenses, 5% to the Rubber Research Center and 90% to rubber replanting
grants. The level of the grant has been consistently adjusted to attract
potential rubber replanters, but the process of adjusting the grant level is
cumbersome. Government has agreed that it would (a) allow ORRAF to adopt a
policy whereby the level of the grant would be reviewed annually, and raised
when necessary to reflect changes in input prices, wage rates and technical
recommendations made by the Rubber Research Center, and (b) simplify the



- 16 -
procedure for approving adjustments in the grant level (Section 4.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Government has considerable flexibility in controll-
ing ORRAF's financial position through its control over the level of the
rubber cess. Government is also able to affect the level of farmer partic-
ipation in rubber Which, together with the cess, affect farmers' incentives
to replant. Government will periodically review the level of taxes on
rubber exports and the rubber cess levied pursuant to Section 5 of the
Replanting Act and will consult with the Bank prior to making any changes in
the level of the rubber cess (Sections 4.06 and 4.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
49.       ORRAF's Planning and Monitoring Unit monitors the socio-economic
impact of the replanting program as a basis for policy formulation. In
1979/80 the Unit and the Office of Agricultural Economics surveyed 1,300
replanting grant recipients but a regular resurvey is needed of a smaller
sample size to more clearly define the incomes and activities of the rubber
replanters as well as smallholders in rubber new planting and coconut areas.
An economic and policy working group will be established in ORRAF's Planning
and Monitoring Unit, which will regularly update the socio-economic survey
and submit its findings to the Bank by the end of each fiscal year during
project implementation (Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Accounts and Audits
50.       ORRAF's accounts are audited by the National Auditing Council at the
end of every financial year on the basis of guidelines recommended by the Bank
for the Rubber Replanting Project. Internal auditing is carried out by a
special unit responsible to the Director.  Consultants financed as part of the
Rubber Replanting Project have made detailed recommendations for improving
ORRAF's accounting and auditing procedures, and these proposals are being
implemented satisfactorily. ORRAF will continue to maintain, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records of its financial and operational
activities; have its accounts audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing procedures acceptable to the Bank; and submit to the Bank within
six months of the end of every fiscal year during project implementation a
certified copy of the auditor's report.  Similar arrangements would be
followed for project expenditures by MOAC.
Cost Recovery
51.        It is estimated that the ORRAF grant represents about 75% of the
cost of replanting one hectare of rubber or about 50% of the farmer's incre-
mental costs of replanting when income foregone is taken into account. At
forecast export prices, and assuming that the present formulae for the cess
and export taxes continue to apply to the noninflated price of the product,
the total ORRAF grant cost, without interest, would on average be recovered
by the cess over the life of the replant.  The cost recovery ratio would be
about 1.1 if both export taxes and cess are considered as "cost recovery."



- 17 -
In sum, project costs would be more than fully recovered by taxation
specific to the rubber industry.
Benefits and Risks
52.       The proposed project has many attractive features.  Benefits are
widely distributed, with more than half accruing to the target group (defined
as families with a per capita income of less than one third of the national
average). The investment cost per person directly benefitted is low,
averaging $400, and the number of persons directly benefitted is large,
estimated at about one million. The economic rate of return of the project is
sound and robust, at 15%. Project benefits include: (a) substantially
increased rubber production giving rise to higher exports and public revenues
(incremental production attributable to the project would be worth a total
of about $5.0 billion and Government revenues through taxes about $1.1 billion
over a 30-year period); (b) increased employment opportunities for low-paid
agricultural workers, about half of wnom are women (a total of 1.2 million
man-years of incremental employment would be created over a 30-year period);
and (c) the strengthening of institutions serving the tree crop subsector.
53.       The level of risk associated with this project is low given
the proven implementation capacity of ORRAF. The main risk is not that the
project would fail to show a reasonable rate of return but that its rate of
development could be retarded by extraneous factors, the most significant
being the possibility of increased insurgency in South Thailand which would
hinder ORRAF field officers from carrying out tasks effectively. However, the
probability of insurgency on a regionwide basis is considered low, although
scattered minor problems in the more remote areas can be expected.
Environmental Impact
54.       The project would mainly replace existing old rubber with new
rubber, and less than 10% of the area to be replanted would need terracing to
prevent runoff and erosion.  The scattered nature of the plantings would
limit the impact of such runoff and of dissolved plant nutrients.  Inter-
cropping would be confined to the flat and slightly undulating land to
minimize risk of soil erosion. Fertilizers would be applied to the tree
crops to avoid depletion of soil nutrients, and the small amounts of
agrochemicals used would have no adverse environmental effects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Rubber Replanting
Aid Fund, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.  Special conditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex III.



- 18 -
56.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 10, 1981



ANNEX I
-19-                                                     Page 1 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTSD AVE GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND  SQ. KM.)                                                         -  HOST RECENT ESTI aTE)
TUTAL            514.0                                MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     178.1              1960  /b    1970 ]b ESlIMATE L1         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                 100.0        210.0     590.0               1136.1                  1616.2
ENERGY CJNSUMPIl1N PER CAPITA
(KiLOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      62.5       204.3      376.3               1150.6                  1324.1
PUPULATION AND VITAL STATISTlICS
POPULATIUN, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27229.0     36499.0  45475.0
URBAN PuPULATIUN (PERCENT OF ToTAL) 12.5        13.2       14.2                 40.8                    64.2
POPULATION PRuJECTIUNS
POPULATIlN 1N YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      68.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       103.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 104.                      53.0        71.0      88.5                 373.1                    34.3
PEK SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    210.3       247.5      250.0               2382.8                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.7        46.2      42.4                  39.8                    40.7
15-b4 YBS.                         52.6        50.8      54.5                  56.7                    55.3
65 YRS. AND AEOVE                   2.7         3.0       3.1                   3.5                     4.0
PUPULAIION GROTaH RATE (PERCENT)
TOIAL                              2.6         2.9       2.4                   2.3                     2.4
URBAN                              4.4         3.5        3.2                  3.8                     3.7
CRUDE BIIOH KATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.0        39.5       30.9                 29.7                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RA1E (PER THOUSAND)     15.8        11.3       7.9                   7.5                     8.4
GROSS REPRUDUCTION RATE              3.2         2.9       2.1                   1.9                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNINN
ACCEPTOKS, AUNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       202.9L   161.0
USERS (PERCENIT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         7.6      39.0                  44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          92.0       100.0      124.0                123.7                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENIS)                   96.0       103.0      105.0                112.6                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        50.0      49.0                  62.5                    65.8
of WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       10.0        15.0       14.0                 19.7                    34.0
CHILD (AGLS 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     15.6         9.6       5.9                   4.8                     7.6
HEALTh
LIFE EPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    50.8         57.1      62.0                  64.0                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        86.0L    68.0                   50.2                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPLLATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      22.0                  45.9                    65.7
URBAN                               ..        60.0      49.0                  68.0                    79.7
RURAL                               ..        10.0      12.0                  34.4                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Of PuPULATION)
rOIAL                               ..        17.0      40.0                  53.4                    59.9
URBAN                               ..        65.0      58.0                  71.0                    75.7
RURAL                               ..         8.0      36.0                  42.4                    30.4
POPULAIOuN PER PHYSICIAN          8003.8      8462.6    8154.1                4428.7                  1728.2
POPULAIION PER NURSING PERSON     4900.0      7058.4    3542.0                2229.7                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TUTAL                           1351.0/e    897.8      814.2                 588.5                   471.2
URBAN                               ..       176.3     519.5                 579.6                   558.0
RURAL                                .     13910.7    1268.5                1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        31.0      44.8                  36.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.5j.       5.8       5.5
URBAN                              5.3/e       5.8       5.5
RURAL                              5.6j/       5.8       5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER Of PERSUNS PER ROOM
TITAL                               ..          ..       2.4
URBAN                               ..          ..       2.2
RLKAL                               ..          ..        2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TUIAL                               ..        18.9
URBAN                               ..        86.1
RURAL                               ..         9.0



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                                       Page 2 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AWES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  83.0         81.0      82.0                    99.8                     101.7
MALE                  88.0         85.0       85.0                  100.6                     103.0
FEMALE                79.0         77.0       78.0                   98.8                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  13.0         17.0      28.0                    53.5                      35.3
MALE                  16.0         20.0       29.0                   58.4                      34.9
FEMALE                10.0         14.0       27.0                   48.6                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)    19.0           24.0       17.0                   21.1                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             36.0         22.0      28.0                    34.2                      29,6
SECONDARY                           20.0         16.0      27.0                    31.7                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         68.0         78.6       84.0                   86.5                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0          5.1       6.4                    12.7                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         76.0     131.0                   174.1                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.2          6.6      17.6                    50.6                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0         20.5        ..                   106.8                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        1.7                    4.3                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13958.0        17010.0   21547.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    48.3         47.3      46.5                    37.4                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.7         79.9      76.6                    50.2                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   4.4          6.0       8.7                    21.9                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51.3         46.6       47.4                   40.2                      31.8
MALE                                  52.7         49.3       50.9                   49.8                      49.0
FEMALE                                49.8         43.9      43.9                    31.1                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          1.1        1.0                    1.1                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/f         23.8/g    14.0/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.97?         49.7]j    42.27.                            
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2/f          6.1/S     7.6/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9/f         15.9/i    19.1/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URHAN                                 ..          ..      159.04                  248.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..     106.0 /i                193.7                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      115.0 LI                249.8                    513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     110.0 /I                234.3                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      15.0                    21.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      34.0                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   Government program  only;  id 1964-65;  /e 1962;  /f 1962-63;  /g 1968;  /h Preliminary data for 1975-76;
due to lack of data on national basis, the methodology for aggregating the available regional data
overstates incomes of low income groups and understates incomes of higher income groups. Thus, this
data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
/i   Estimates for 1977.
May, 1981



- 21-                                                                                        ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDIOCATORSPa e                                                                            3 o         5
Hetsa'  AIlthough the data arc  dr       ..nfea     .re. generaly ju~dged the nutatoar Oaadrlale   isol   ia   ettdte  they emy te  bentr
MIcetreoe   etpeere  Ii) th,e-or.....uty ....ca   th.rsabj-e aoaryad (2) aao-oty g-apeLthaa-ae. hi~.gh-eeorS. ioco.a.hetenueegr
at th  collct cactey  etret ten"Copial SuplueOit toparteec"l- geuch-r  "Mtiddle Incm  Serrh Aft-it  ad Otddlr tact" tnLh.cee hena..    of stronge
sei-anao ftfleitnias)   (a the ceftermi  gou 9  data ... overage.  e  pouaio        ieghnrd netinti.  trac  far each iadinot- and chee  eels rh..
saeItyt the cauceiectara.           o   aofnte   ntae.   ic   t   neeet.onrr   mn  the tdLeato   depends a.trhe availability et data
so .Odloerer at a tine neoa  tin  cutty end -etarr..    greupa.~y-..  i                                                                        p.        t..I.I
LAND0 ARiA (cbo....ad sq.isa.l                                                                   Peaa tPer            itrara  Bed  -toa,uban  en.d rrl     apldt           itl
Torn  - Ttal morfte area  emyctain  land ara and tlent ene.a                       oce,ad ru idivldded by able  repe-ti-verb.r n , bepttm1 beds
Iateolara  -.1 etiete of agett-learl aer orad raepncretlp or p-c-aenrt                        sotal   npbi    dpaen   eea                      pntledhsIa   n   e
fo Prp.acre    Iarlt end hiteh-n gordes or te  ir. Pall-r;  -90  dte                     o btttaOoLo.rece.-d tai-talemrccsnabdiptsrr1t              d pemaenl I rstI s
GNoP PERg      _C_AS((f) - GNp pee caPita  etarea  uce   ahtpie,tl                                   ilcr   c   o -totodt.  trat hepetel, bakvetb yolhd  heath
ene7y) inM     9urno   oleocLelc Bper crtne; hO.1977,7 aud.) 19791                               ceners    -pcate    oyl       alayr tnafudadb,lade  trn
date.                                                         udniesinas yet Onsettel ted - Tonal rueher abiO adoste  n   c  echr
Itrmbetecdvddbrhcebrobes
dona L.                                                                                     Avere1-ro Olce ...uthyhousehold 1- (prsn I. cr heositol..d)  -dt-Ial.dabe  and rocaty
amaitgteeti ea  0 f-1qill   --j. 960, 107,70dltSdsa.rn  oueol  tc1c 79ta    urost
Pdalcont     olrieAcetat cabrofiHhe  e   on     ee.1ais,  n  rartlt                                                                                             - beeeg   -1 -
oatsian O  sea  20tO - CTrcet p.p..atLon praJoctiaa. are based en 0980                      bee at Pere.ta peaoo  inal  acto, and oe1 encpied tnmeetlseea
tonalPoplttLn by agad ro  -d ateic  mortality and  -teriluny  .tons                          doe111ags, e-p-tc-lee        Del On1ge  -aiode ta-Lrenet  traoaesd
i   . iterPetcaty at birthlcraiaith enLty'  pe  capIt  laneAce   eletio..preta   eolae  -eel   re,odoc 
level, and fesl  life or ec-ny  -raihicing at 70.5 years.  The pare-                         Coneert...el doslitega noah e1-teneioty On lOviag quartersamPsaS.a
emcee tar '.teniaity rate rise bh-  ab-  Ion a-          sin  declli_o  Ifa totl1, urban, ard tare1 deelilseeprneny
terniihty accoding t  inoe         -leelfad poet fainly Olo-ning portinnc..
tlhcc-otry Os  h. elonoge   car            . of nese Lno biehteat-n  cf netritty        tOOIATOOO
andtetiOap treade tee pojecaic- p-epose.                                               Adoi..ed Inee           -icehate
Stati-rryeto Ito-ta toci -a y population there it cc gath since                                 eaat acboo  -  oot  ae  c..al     O       tenl, male and teesl
t1he birtb rate is rs-al no tbr deatiLuce.  -od al   the  ear  nrrroc-erLlsncu  al-gsanacpin                                             ee  as Poe          Iae  aT Vecpeele
matte ren tu.  Thia is achievd eily alter faetityi           ae   elien                         rnryeho-g  p              tee  nor-moly titldes ehildee  sgE.d b-1l
che rplattarn  evel0t unt ne  repndratne rne, o at  ach gneraion                   oets  an ejusee   cottitte.otLengtsfot  rimay .dnatte;tte
of .me  er.oo  trer- t ruac-ly.  Thlaet ttr          ppLantocd- the   m                    c..tln b    athI!,,   : un ivftal edtati 9tho I seeletimay esd.L1ti00  ferse
asiscd  nti  bas  0tI  po rtd   hoetoitieatth   opltin               tonesepuis  r  bb  orsoere  foilenelae
met i tee ..  .-dtutettt-hereqh.y..at-ccte ay                                                                      t i-ea  four pares at approvd primary i-tatrtto;
reid rm      t-yea  O.'ulrtiet e        k sonr  ilm - (100 bec-co)  fOVotea   eolerloen   fecaay     LnnaOota  oaIrutte1a
ttlae;1960, .1970 erd 197~9 Pdor-ltoracntl   ronil   ruhcpren    Ot   yrt  m sd
foPulecoce ASs      --uoue  teereta  -  hibodeIe (S-l  per 0,t    o a -ag   015-                   Pe.sarY sad aecenda-y levee dildad by craher.t.f -nh-.s La the
hAYeats, ro  eceleed (h6paea5           vnia   ecoar  etr.      nod-year pdepa-                anee-Ttp1odOng lev1lde.
lanior; 19000, 1970, med 1979 dan.Adi fnrayna   ortn)      itntsmc.s(b,-o  ed  e tis
F.oaLIntee Onethtre(cen)-etl-enalgntbnemo  tonala1 1' mi-ass perlentag  oft   -a adLit pepa dn 1tn aged                                                   - 1 tyeessd near.
perpepulsc... too 1950-hi;,196.0-tO, I-d 1970-79.                                                   PI:I.
PParlertan Oe-h hRto feer-nnf -rcee-batuspgrelhtrats ef  rbeeY.n-,.09Id0_TOit
la-toc  tee 195 0-gO, 1960-70,--andt 1970-0.p  -                                             rCOSUMPTINsrtrtrrburdocltn)-memeeesnpts    es
ppltien   790  oo,  n  1979 dor.                                                           sl  te  cbcl
PopnIlti-a; lob,6 97,  and 1979tat,                                                             rodcst..cg.erd   rhioperrbosadofce-aliataslhesas
nht,    rts;uaal  tOeya  aear  enigi  lOg,di7b,ca  199.                                         om  t      tnrir  abbellashedf licensing.::Id
--Io ploin      crcpc-d-t       a  (hraee  -gealnmere  aepocll                                  ecvesfeerb-ndpoaatel-JVessvrste  eaoadt
P al   lsna     O       ,eleccro  mridsee)-Pecnae  fmriedncanrr   ndiier chin  rettrted                                                           e Vmesen   sstet
tille   bidhern  tepl-0  ec)  A  aYd                  it-cenl  eicen                        OeIotrCtainrtnehosdrottgl-Obesherrscle
--11     ,I_y ... !,:h                                            I~~palcnlndeoedpimrl  n   acria   earlace   O   s  catse
Onstead at magen) oh Id  err edt~ble and cacein - accia te (eg. toffeei sadI                              -
eaia  nvrhi   prdce edsnegtb.1b-h.190Lad199daa                                           TenetIaborPart  ( Fhrsade h- teaeemtaltly monica.L psm-a  omeffdl,g
_e eec ei    lyo  ce 1oci       4 fyrreen  ofhrou biLoah-  Computed . teo                    are(eoaadoaP. lope  hut.d                     --loia  hns h-am   Lbdets. I e
Ptcy en  hath cenai.d der i erires -tl arpsatre .bdy orihd f                mgd             Indstr  geren  -ta    torte-L    in m             -Ining,    d.nre -rtn,  se tait---
heathid                              LIa;  91h    000   o  107  daa                          17  ad199daa
-tlleee  v   0gan   fccl   pretohtn per6day65    297  grat 19f dc.me, ad195  1979,Lb                       and- 1970 ...dt.  Tes  r - - mJmid ne t .0-     pnLnpsina  ae
pulse. prtni-    f         Leab  00re  shudh_nmlpean tC sama-                                  elatnee -           -Pesneacu    at the ppilathr,- ad-ler td.as  tree.A
seda are ivore than theta et 75 grame of  .totlrt ttaan .P  germ of                fca   .ree         re   amalauoa
World fooddcuecep; lOhi-hbl.107   rod 1077,dne.                                              ne ith  natal laborf tnc.11g.    -iii.."    I"   .t
tcd. eA- almasb n  palace in arena ye  dayL. P15d1-t05, 1071 sa  1977 d1t6. 101900 000d1197910
tIrmL data d-icedtramb lAOO  tbles  1900,1970iaed 1079dote                                    at -btieearbetldr..   IbL  . ; 60 L70-   17  d
loeEnetaned  at11 git..     as        sa    ubru   er   flt rimaLaEng                         de IeLlenoeg. raico  areIL Lor  sptnimet  moeres  t pcaep laml
an .birh; 1060,     6165  10707mdd199 dat1970 shead  ho9 iad                                                     frndsihcnsdra               autr
Inan  tRetitn.y rn  fort thond)-  anul naceo  Intnt  ude  one year.                            !Mtal iiime   Abolt  fevr t ta  Lvl.  (1790 ecetems  - oga   sa  cee
Aetas  o  atetoer  Pecen  a  ceolrnao-mea, ubo. oe ued- um-nurlnonllpdornt  dtn  lusreettalmaefedR-sarasnr iPac
eae  supplyf flaoldaanretd.     sue a.,  nareer nf f anrnLnd  bat aoaeetd                    -affrdabe.~tt          -!td.    ..,               I  
Y                                                                     Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~trmtdglnc   eec   onalvl   0$ceeea      ea   a   aa 
eatersc  Os.t   that teem  pctei..tedhnbalahs,b  USApra  en.:d.f mniteepells  at               ara   ra     fv poet I   ees  level1 pc lcsthird  at mreg  pee ptairsy
remealp,acceas   Il  -imply that the  .l,p. b      .a..i  o   mabar ofAL the ThiaebLdnd E        corAl D-dPetai RIfL pepaRtior  paplatind raral  ebe are 65bse
Aecasoto  -ceAna-DispsalhtrPccetl.0.earuLnien--.totl,.urban, nd rarsi 
g,Sabre  ed 4 prepir (etr~ildurba ,er  rarll  serve  byP fn-e-   d-icPnm g aa                                                       ,.h.dl                    ,db   i-
lar cnecellrccaee.                    bhay 0901if  L-.ig                            h.f11i.             -t.L.1-     P--t                      I   p-y  .-.
male and tematcaradaseenureoa.  pracIeicti...el                                       Idqvatrdietplm. .end ae1eisfcdancqcareLea.



ANNEX I
- 22-                                                                     Poof 5
THAILAND - ECONOMIC INDICATOCS
Population:        46,140    (mid-1979, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  US5594   (1979)
Amount
(million US$                   Average Annual Increase (X)                      Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
at current                      (at constant 1975 prices)                              (at current vrices)
Indicator                        prices) 1979        1960-70    1970-75    19i5-80    1980-85    198S-90         1960      1970       1975      1980/e
National Accounts
Gross domestic products /a          27,8U4.5             8.4        6.4         8.9        6.5         7.2       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture                        7,173.2             5.5        5.3         4.6        4.9         5.0        39.8       28.3      31.5      23.9
Industry                           7,875.1            11.5        7.8       10.1         6.9         7.3        18.7      25.3       24.8      29.9
Services                          12,756.2             9.0        7.1        10.1        7.4         8.1        41.5      46.4       43.7      46.2
Consumption /b                      21,767.4             7.3        7.0         8.3        5.0         6.4        85.7       78.7      79.3      7b.7
Gross investment /c                   7,744.3           15.8        3.8        11.8        5.3         5.2        15.7       26.2      25.4      29.8
Export of goods and NFS              6,321.2            10.5        3.6        11.0       12.0        10.0        17.4       16.7      19.1      23.5
Imports of goods and NFS             8,028.4            13.9        3.7        11.4        6.0         6.5        18.9      21.5       23.7      30.1
Gross national savings               5,655.2             -          -           -          -           -          14.1       21.5      20.7      22.3
Composition of Mlerchandise Trade (Z)
(at current prices)
1960      1970      1975       1980/e
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise exports                                                                                              100.0    10O.U    100.0    100.0
Primary                                                                                                         97.8      80.5       77.3      59.8
Manufacturers                                                                                                    2.2      19.5       22.7      40.2
Merchandise imports                                                                                              100.0    100.0       100.0    100.0
Food                                                                                                             9.6       5.4        4.4       3.4
Petroleum                                                                                                       10.9       8.8      22.1       30.9
Machinery & equipment                                                                                           25.3      36.1      35.8       24.1
Other                                                                                                           54.2      49.7      37.7       41.6
1975      1976      1977      1978       1979/e
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP deflator                                              10U0.     103.4    108.6    114.7    123.7
Exchange rate                                              20.4      20.4       20.4      20.3      20.3
Export price index                                        100.0      89.5       86.3    107.4    130.2
Import price index                                        100.0    105.8    114.1    122.3    144.9
Terms of trade index                                      10.0      84.6       75.6      87.8      89.9
As 1 GDP
(at current prices)
1965      1970      1975      1979
Public Finance
Current revenue                                                 13.6      13.8      13.2       13.9
Current expenditure                                             10.6      12.6      11.7       12.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                     +3.0       +1.2      +1.5      +1.5
Capital expenditure                                              4.3       5.8       3.4        3.4
Foreign financing                                                0.2       0.05      0.06       0.2
(at constant 1975 prices)
1960-70   1970-75    1975-80   1980-85    1985-90
Other Indicators
GNP growth rate (x)                                      8.4        6.4         9.0        6.1         7.3
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                           5.2        3.4         6.9        3.8         5.2
Energy consumption growth rate                           -          -           -          -           -
IUOK                                                     2.8        4.0         2.9        4.1        3.5
Marginal savings rate                                    0.29       0.23        0.21       0.37        0.34
Import elasticity                                        1.7        0.6         1.3        0.9        0.9
/s  At market prices.  For projected years, sectors are at factor cost.
/b  Total government and private consumption.
/c  Including changes in stock.
/d  Estimate.
March 12, 1981



-   23  -                                                              AANNEX I
THAILAND - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Population:        46,140   (sid-1979, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  US$594   (1979)
Actual                                          Proiected
1970    1975    19A6  c9t1          1978    19791b    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Balance of Payments
Net exports of goods 6 services                      -299    -687    -4b5  -1,134   -1,191  -2,152   -2,683   -2,771  -2,877  -2,951  -2,747
Exports of goods & services                       1,171   2,990   3,645   4,179    5,127   6,660    6,586    7,992  10,122  11,996  14,273
Imports of goods 7 services                       1,470   3,678   4,110   5,312    6,318   8,813    9,269   10,763  12,999  14,947  17,02U
Net transfers                                           49       81       24       40        41       61        43        47       55       58       67
Current account balance                              -250    -606    -441  -1,094   -1,149  -2,092   -2,b40   -2,724  -2,822  -2,893  -2,680
Direct private investment                               43       8b       80      106        51       53        55        60       65       70       75
MLT loans (net)                                         32      111      198     205        644      992    2,385    2,864   2,657    2,823   2,705
Official                                             21       93      109      212       285      439       480        703     909   1,021   1,034
Private/a                                            10       18       89       -7       360      554    1,905    2,161   1,748   1,802   1,671
Other capital/a                                         93     35b      242      792        490   1,039        200       200      200      200     200
Change in reserves                                      82       52     -79       -9        -36        8         0     -400    -100    -200    -300
International reserves                                906   2,007   2,113   2,208        2,558   3,102    3,026       3,426   3,526   3,726   4,026
Reserves as months of imports                            7        7        6        5         5        4         4         4        3        3        3
Gross Disbursements
Official grants                                          -        -        -        -         -
Gross disbursements of public hLT loans                 55     150      242      268        743   1,124
Concessional                                         11       43       52       82       153      215
Bilateral                                          11       40       45       54        86      151
IDA                                                 -        3        7        9         5        4
Other multilateral                                  -        0        0       19        62       60
Nonconcessional                                      44      107      189      186       590      909
Official export credits                             7        -        -       84        45      L14
I8RD                                               19       41       43       65       103      139
Other multilateral                                  2       37       46       33        46       36
Private                                            17       29      100        5       396      620
Gross disbursements ox other loans                    143      38b      3b6      349        571     799
Total gross disbursements                             198      536      608      618    1,314   1,923
External Debt
Public debt outstanding and disbursed                 322      616      822   1,06b    1,790   2,702
Official                                            285      548      bbb      917    1,Z70   1,b38
IBRD                                              159      270      298      346       435      556
IDA                                                 -        4       11       19        25       28
Other                                             126      274      357      52)       811   1,054
Private                                              j}       6b      156      15u              :  64
Other debt outstanding and disbursed                  382      730      765      680       s1    1,243
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                  704   1,346   1,607   1,948    2,7Z9   3,945
Undisbursed debt                                      161      666      841   1,421    1,862   2,471
Total debt (including undisbursed)                    865   2,012   2,448   3,369    4,591   6,416
Debt Service
Public debt service payments                           39       73       88      122       195      278
Interest on public debt                              16       34       44       58        97      146
Payments as percentage of exports                   3.3      2.4      2.4      2.9       3.8      4.2
Other debt service payments                           123      304      311      320       614      655
Total debt service payments                           162      377      399      442       809      933
Average interest rate on new public loans (X)    6.8           7.5      7.8      7.0       6.7      7.0
Official                                            6.8      7.4      7.7      6.2       5.3      5.3
Private                                             6.0      8.5      8.1      8.2       8.8      9.0
Average maturity of new public loans (years)    18.9    22.9    17.4    14.8              17.3    16.8
Official                                           19.4    24.2    20.7    19.3         22.3    22.6
Private                                            11.2      7.0      7.3      8.3       9.4      9.8
Baunk Group/Exposure (%)
IBRD DOD>total DOD                                   22.6    20.1    18.5    17.8         15.9    14.1
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements          9.5      7.7      7.1    1U.9        8.4      7.4
IBED0 debt service/total debt service                11.1      8.5      9.1    10.0        6.8      7.3
IDA DOD/total DOD                                       -      0.3      0.7      1.0       0.9      0.7
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements             -      0.5      1.1      1.5       0.4      0.2
IDA debt service/total debt service                     -      0.0      0.0      O.0       0.0      0.0
as X of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year 11979)
Terms Structure
Maturity structure of public debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                             28.7
principal due within 10 years                                            61.2
Interest structure of public debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                               4.5
/a Due to change in classification projected data for "Private fILT Loans" include most of the category "Other capital."
/b Estimate.
March 12, 1981



- 24 -
ANNEX Ii
Page 1 of 13
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                           Purpose        Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Thirty two loans and three credits fully disbursed                   613.20   31.74        -
1149   1975   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    95.00         -   46.80
1198T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    4.27
1199T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Livestock       5.00(TW)   -    0.97
1243   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rubber         50.00        -   10.73
1253   1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            26.00        -    2.43
1271   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education      31.00        -   10.03
1327   1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                              Industry       25.00        -    0.10
1393   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture   28.00          -    6.32
1468   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    55.00         -   20.58
1485   1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power           50.00       -    9.06
767    1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Population         -   33.10/b 22.61
1519   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Transport.   110.00         -   31.38
1527   1978   Provincial Electricity Authority         Rural Elect.  25.00         -    9.65
1556   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing          8.60        -    6.33
1620   1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            90.00        -   87.59
1630   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    17.50         -   15.57
1638   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Urban          16.00        -   13.05
1662   1979   State Railway of Thailand                Railways       16.70        -    9.75
1690   1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power           80.00       -   64.48
913    1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education          -   35.00   31.93
929    1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Agriculture        -   25.00   22.73
1752   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Ag. Extension 40.00          -   37.47
1770   1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand                   Power          80.00        -   54.97
1773   1980   Petroleum Authority of                   Natural Gas
Thailand                                Pipeline   107.00/d      -   23.03
1787     1980   Kingdom of Thailand                    Irrigation    80.00         -   75.01
1816     1980   Kingdom of Thailand                   Ag. Credit    19.00          -   15.10



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
Loan or                                                                Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                 Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose           Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1852     1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand       Power                72.00    -         52.35
1863     1980   Provincial Waterworks
Authority /a                Water Supply         40.00    -         40.00
1870     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Housing             29.00    -         28.49
1871     1980   Provincial Electricity
Authority                   Power                75.00    -         75.00
1889     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Inland Waterways   53.00    -          53.00
1918     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ports               47.00    -         47.00
1922     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Research        30.00    -         30.00
1947     1981   Kingdom of Thailand /a          Potash Engineering  8.90    -           8.90
1956     1981   Industrial Finance Corp.
of Thailand                 Industry             30.00    -         21.37
2000     1981   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand /a   Power                100.00    -        100.00
2022     1981   Kingdom of Thailand /a          Irrigation          57.00    -         57.00
2035     1981   Kingdom of Thailand Ta         Provincial Roads   35.00    -           35.00
Total                                                       2,265.90  124.84  1,180.05
of which has been repaid                                    262.24    2.28
Total nOW outstanding                                       2.003.66  122.56
Amount sold /c                       68.63
of which has been repaid           49.47                     19.16
Total now held by Bank and IDA                               1,984.50  122.56
Total undisbursed                                            1,102.78   77.27
/a Not yet effective.
7T Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
T7 Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
7T Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).



- 26 -                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company                Type of Business          Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                 Q.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial               Development                    -    0.39       0.39
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group        Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1978/1979                         Materials                28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company      Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                       -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing                2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00        -      2.00
1979/  Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited       Glass Containers            4.85    0.34       5.19
1979/  Siam City Cement         Cement and Construc-
1981     Co. Ltd.                  tion Materials          63.00    4.00      67.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                 -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                            100.98    9.61    110.59
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          65.39    2.56      67.95
Net held by the Corporation                         35.59    7.05      42.64
Total undisbursed                                   28.54    -         28.54



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of September 30, 1981)
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, two years behind
schedule, due to slow progress in on-farm works. Construction work on the
diversion dam is complete and works on the distribution systems are
proceeding well. All studies financed under the project are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is almost complete. Rehabilitation and on-
farm development works for Part A of the project on about 13,000 ha are
expected to be completed in 1981 bringing the total area developed to
48,5000 ha, comparcd to 3u,OO0 in the appraisal, schedule. Under Part B,
rehabilitation works serving 76,800 ha will be completed this year bringing
the total served to 102,000 ha. Under Part C, 65 km of service roads are
being constructed. Under Part D, a feasibility study for about 175,000 ha
in the Stage II area of Maeklong was completed in March 1980 and a study for
a possible Third Stage Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project was
completed in December 1980.
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:
April 25,1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule due to
initial delays in procurement of equipment and supplies. Procurement of
equipment is now proceeding smoothly. Construction of main and secondary
canals is progressing satisfactorily and on-farm works have been completed
on 1,600 ha. Two new diversion dams have been built in the Lam Takhong
project area and work has started on canal rehabilitation.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project is about one year behind schedule due to delays in the
appointment of consultants. Satisfactory progress is now being made in
procuring equipment and vehicles.
Loan No. 2022-TH Irrigation XII Project; $57 Million Loan of
August 13, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The project has not yet been declared effective pending employment
of consultants.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Construction of almost 400 km of village access roads is complete
and is under way on 700 km: contracts for the remaining 200 km have been
awarded. The road maintenance program is being carried out at an acceptable
rate with good quality work using equipment procured under the project. The
village water supply component has provided 2,400 freshwater wells. The
agricultural extension component was completed in 1978 and subsumed into the
National Extension Project (Loan 1393).  The upland crops component is being
satisfactorily completed and research work is being continued by the
National Agricultural Research Project (Loan 1922). The village electrifi-
cation component has been completed with electrification of about 475 vil-
lages. The land settlement component is essentially complete; cash incomes
of pilot cooperating farmers were roughly doubled in the project period, and
settlement cooperative placed on a sound footing.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976;
Closing Date: July 30, 1982
The project continues to make fairly good progress particularly
with seed production for pasture development. However, disbursement remains
behind schedule and the original loan closing date of June 30, 1981 was
extended by 12 months to July 30, 1982. The Department of Livestock Devel-
opment is currently considering plans for transferring project activities
into the work programs of the regular divisions of the Department, and these
transfers should be completed before June 30, 1982 as part of a departmental
reorganization plan.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. The replanting rate over
the projet period has been slower than that envisioned at appraisal, but for
1981 it is estimated that 65,600 ha will be replanted - 31% above the target
of 50,000 ha. Management and the general level of staff efficiency at the
Office of the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund is satisfactory. Bank disburse-
ments for the project are expected to be completed before June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Delays in staff recruitment experienced in the early days of the
project have now been overcome and the "T and V" system is operating as
planned. Subject matter specialist training is being given priority atten-
tion. Civil works construction is nearing comnletion and disbursement has
improved considerably in recent months.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is off to a reasonable start in seven
provinces and disbursements are close to appraisal estimates. Subject
matter specialist training is being given priority attention, as also is the
relevance of the information being disseminated to farmers through the "T
and V" system.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
In general, reasonable progress has been achieved to date. The
highland agriculture and social component has experienced greater difficul-
ties than the other components and will require concerted action to achieve
a satisfactory level of implementation. The project still can be completed
on schedule if the required action is taken. Difficulties requiring resolu-
tion relate particularly to management, staffing, engineering and budgeting.
IDA staff are giving close attention to these problems in an effort to help
resolve them.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 13
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation has been somewhat slow, but progress is
being made in appointing consultants. It was agreed that all the Bank for
Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) branches in the North and
Northeast regions should be allowed to handle the on-going BAAC term lending
under the nonspecified lending category of the project. This would result
in a further improvement in the regional distribution of lending under the
project and would address the credit needs of a larger number of small farm-
ers in the poorer regions of Thailand. This component is progressing very
well, but disbursements under the specified lending components have been
slow.
Loan No. 1922 National Agricultural Research Project; $30 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date March 20, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
The loan became effective in March 1981, but a budget deficiency
in the first six months, which coincided with the last six months of the RTG
fiscal year, seriously affected project implementation, which was
negligible, although much useful preliminary planning was accomplished. The
recent approval of a project budget for RTG FY82 and the pending approval by
Cabinet of the reorganization plan for the Department of Agriculture should
enable implementation to proceed satisfactorily in calender 1982.
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and is expected
to be completed ahead of schedule. All civil works have been tendered and
most contracts awarded. More than half of equipment and furniture has been
procured. Nearly all fellowships have been awarded. Staff training
programs are on schedule but need to be improved, as does supervision by the
Ministry of Education of its nonformal education programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28,
1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is being implemented in three phases. Satisfactory
progress is being made on institutions included in phase one which are
scheduled to be constructed and equipped by end-1981. For this phase, sites
have been selected and acquired. Sketch plans and equipment lists are



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13
completed. Phases two and three will be completed mid-1982 and mid-1983,
respectively. Project staff has been appointed or designated. Curricula
are being developed. Technical assistance agencies, except that for the
Center of Educational Administrators, have been contracted and staff
training programs are conducted as scheduled. The studies under the project
are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27,
1978; Effective Date:  July 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Project implementation and disbursement status have improved con-
siderably over the past year with project implementation now running, on the
average, about 12 months behind the appraisal schedule.  Five of the ten
national level training facilities have been completed, and the rest are now
all under construction. Of the 430 rural health facilities, 251 have been
completed, 131 are under construction and 23 had to be deleted. Although
dealys have occurred in procurement of equipment and furniture, these pro-
blems have largely been resolved. Procurement of the remaining vehicles and
audio-visual equipment is well advanced. Most training, information/
education/communication and population-related research and evaluation
activities have been completed on schedule. The Innovative Village Nutri-
tion Activity has been successfully launched and use of most of the remain-
ing Innovative Activities funds for testing new ideas in continuing
education and the role of mass communication in health education is about to
be approved by tne Government. The serious contraceptive supply problem
highlighted by recent supervision missions has now been largely resolved.
Loan No. 1556  Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is about eighteen months behind schedule
because of difficulties encountered with the largest contract. The National
Housing Authority (NHA) is taking steps to resolve these problems and
prevent further delay. Good progress, however, has been made on the various
policy concepts on which the project is based, and NHA's financial manage-
ment has been strengthened through technical assistance.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
The project's overall progress has been slower than expected due
to lack of progress on institutional development of the executing agency
(OCMRT). Tangible project progress to date has been principally (a) the



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13
successful introduction of 100 km of bus lanes; (b) introduction of a
computer controlled traffic signal system in central Bangkok; and (c) a
variety of minor civil works.
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Design and procurement are generally proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1863 Provincial Water Supply Project; $40 Million Loan of
November 25, 1980; Closing Date: April 3, 1986
This loan has not yet been declared effective pending signature of
the consultants contract.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The main civil works were completed ahead of schedule. The reset-
tlement program was completed satisfactorily inspite of terrorist
activities. The first and second units of turbine generator were put in
operation and the third unit is expected to be completed by end-1981.
Loan No. 1527 Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
As of end-June 1981, work has been started on 3,800 villages, out
of which 2,400 villages have already been electrified. The load promotion
program started in April 1981. Disbursements are slightly behind schedule
due to initial delays in procurement.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 23, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is slightly behind schedule because of poor soil
condition encountered during foundation piling. Field works are now
proceeding satisfactorily, and project execution is expected to catch up
with the original schedule.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13
Loan No. 1770 Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The project is several months behind due to unexpected poor rock
foundation. Construction of the resettlement program started at Site I and
Site IV.
Loan No. 1871 Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $75 Million
Loan of November 14, 1980; Effective Date: August 20, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan was declared effective on August 20, 1981. Detailed
designs for the first 9 project provinces are ready and procurement for 13
of the 20 groups of bids is being processed.
Loan No. 2000-TH Power Subsector Project; $100 Million Loan of July 8,
1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan has not yet been declared effective pending receipt of
legal opinion from Government.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Effective Date: May 27, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is proceeding on schedule and within the budget. Good
progress has been made with the overall physical works and major project
components, including offshore pipeline and onshore main line, have been
completed on schedule. The pipeline was commissioned in August, 1981.
Loan No. 1852 Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of June 17, 1980;
Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1980; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan has been fully committed and the remaining balance is
expected to be disbursed by December 31, 1981.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, comprising the development of a 163.5 ha industrial
estate on rice paddy land 35 km east of Bangkok, has been completed and the
Loan has been fully disbursed.  Project progress was satisfactory, notwith-
standing some delays in the construction of the roadway, drainage and water
supply systems due to contractor disputes. Almost all developed sites have
been sold and IEAT is currently engaging in an expansion program for the
estate. Since IEAT has sold a substantial portion of the estate area to a
few large firms, its original objective of attracting 120 medium-size firms
will not materialize; only 19 firms have so far settled in the estate.
Total employment in the estate will be in the range of 5,000-6,000 workers,
if all estate firms are at full capacity production, which falls short of
the original target of 12,000. IEAT is currently establishing the
procedures for its newly established EPZ. IEAT's financial structure and
performance have been satisfactory.
Loan No. 1956 Fourth IFCT Project; $30.0 Million Loan of April 15, 1981;
Effective Date: June 18, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
This loan became effective on June 18, 1981.
Loan No. 1947-TH Potash Engineering Project; $8.9 Million Loan of
March 4, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The loan has not yet been declared effective due to delays in the
recruitment of consultants.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All construction contracts have been awarded and work is about 75%
completed and proceeding satisfactorily. However, for three of the roads
the bidding and awards were delayed about 10 months to synchronize with bid-
ding and award of contracts in March 1979 on a link road, which is essential
for the effective use of the project roads, and which is being financed
wholly by the Government.  Completion of the project may thus be delayed
about nine months. Most of the maintenance equipment has been procured and
with recently increased budgetary allocations, progress with the road main-
tenance program is improving.  The studies are also now proceeding satis-
factorily. However, the study of Rural Roads was delayed about 18 months
because the department originally intended to be the executing agency ran



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13
into difficulties but the Government made alternative arrangements and the
study is expected to be completed in early 1982.
Loan No. 2035-TH  Provincial Roads Project; $35 Million Loan of
August 13, 1981; Closing Date December 31, 1985
The project has not yet been declared effective.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Progress on project implementation is satisfactory. The financial
condition of the State Railway of Thailand remains weak, and the Bank has
urged the Government to fulfil its obligations by implementing the necessary
tariff revisions. To correct this situation, the Government has proposed an
action program which is currently being reviewed within the Bank.
Loan No. 1889 Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 Million Loan
of August 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Preconstruction activities are underway with consultant selection
ongoing. "requalification of contractors for thp river works has been
completed a.id bid documents Lssued.
Loan No. 1918   Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project; $47 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan became effective on August 12, 1981.
Loan No. 1253  Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of
June 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Original
Closing Date: December 31, 1980; Current Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project has been completed except for connection of some new
telephone lines expected during the first half of 1981. About $3.1 million
remains to be disbursed against retention payments and against items missing
from initial supplies or for replacement of faulty items.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower-s decision on standardization of
switching equipment and subsequent delays in issue of bid invitation and in
evaluation of bids, the project is currently about 18 months behind
schedule. The financial condition of the borrower continues to be
satisfactory.



ANNEX III
- 37 -                   Page 1
THAILAND
SECOND TREE CROPS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time required to prepare the project:           14 months
(b)  The agencies which have prepared the            ORRAF with assistance
project:                                        of an FAO/UNDP tech-
nical assistance team
and the Bank.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:         June 1979
Date of first Bank mission to consider the    December 1979
project:
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:         August 22, 1980
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:             November 6, 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                  April 1, 1982
Section li: Special Bank Implementation Accions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government has agreed that it will:
(i)  review the staffing, organization and financing needs of
the Rubber Research Center with the Bank by June 30, 1982
and implement such measures as it shall deem appropriate
(para. 41);
(ii) after project completion, provide ORRAF with any additional
funds necessary to ensure that rubber replanted under the
project is brought into full production (para. 44);
(iii)  allow ORRAF to review the replanting grant level annually and
adjust it to reflect changing circumstances, and simplify
the procedures for adjusting the grant (para. 48);



ANNEX III
- 38 -                       Page 2
(iv)  periodically review the level of taxes and cess on rubber
and consult with the Bank prior to making any changes in
the level of the rubber cess (para. 48);
(b) ORRAF has agreed that it will:
(i) exchange views with the Bank on its organization
should its duties be expanded substantially (para. 47);
and
(ii) establish an economic and policy working group in its
Planning and Monitoring Unit and submit an updated
socio-economic survey annually to the Bank (para. 49).



saO                    ri~~~~              ~~oo  C.-  IRA0                            I0a         BUM                       S CR16
-rC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5<$XfX
BURMA  ~>
H-, S-~~~~~~~~~~~~
0r   CLno ooqA    JI> '                                                                      HALANDS  \ t1Sol 
(>  t         J               $                      / N:  (                                             )       ( DEMOCRATIC / 
.2tgni  % '                    t\           )  I               LAO   PEOPLE'S   DEM. REP.                                         ,> DIE
-lae~~~~~~~~~ f                                                                                                       INDONE51
SS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  ;'00 C4/o }. Doc  ,f^>
.K= n s ! s W XA t? l Y t. 160
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16000 000000 1   2'\t\,              >        , fh00'''Y'b14
Sec ~ ~                                        Coott; ul   ;Ag.__      ,        CT
h,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
1 atnot0ts/ 00  i EORTCtUCH
h.b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
't~~ ~~ '   4            T~- hT                          dC:
0  0    0 t ;0 =.    ;  ;    .  0          t          ;:    t;            0i i       :THAILAND                                _    _
- 0 i t t      -   - W    -  :ltt   !     0t  ;t;RUBER GROWING AREAS                                                               E 
=,   0   0 X    < ', ~~~-K3, ?h m n g    , :9 tt i   ;; X;  ; i      tW :; f         Il5LROBE6R 066650AREAS   00i    
-as.                              J i 0 0 0    ;   g  a ; - S   0  0 X   0   .   0  i 0*  E?ROSINOIATIOES
A~~~~~~~~~~~~doma. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     RA6EOaAROOP
D   MOCRSTIC  KAMR        U CSHEATPIONTIRBD
TH-0-- RAILWAYS
= f \ t9X; : +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  AlPORTS
RM ER   S , __  ---CIRANGAATEGUNDARIEA
D0                          300t3METERS                                                           - ),  ) j <    _--  INTERNATIONAL ROSRVARIES
-                      MRLESAILWAYS
;0p0 0400        102001250D   3000E j(IN L                                                                                                               L10UNA1IS



