OFFICIAL        OAN NUMBER 2078 TH
Loan Agreement
(Second Tree Crops Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2078 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              o'     , 1982, between KINGDOM
OF THAILAND (herein     r calle  the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the
Rubber Replanting Aid Fund (hereinafter called the Fund) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Fund part of the proceeds of
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C) Parts A (1), (2) and (5) of the Project will be carried
out in accordance with the Borrower's Rubber Replanting Aid Fund
Act and be financed, in part, with the proceeds of the Rubber Cess
levied by the Borrower pursuant to said Act;
(D) The Borrower has designated the Fund as the agency
responsible for providing technical support to smallholders for
the development of new high-yielding budded rubber;
(E) The Borrower intends to contract from Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC) a loan (hereinafter called the CDC
Loan) in an amount of ten million pounds sterling (10,000,000) to
assist in the financing of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the CDC Loan Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and CDC; and
WHEREAS the Bank is willing, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even
date herewith between the Bank and the Fund;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and


﻿-2-
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Replanting Act" means the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund
Act, B.E. 2503 (1960), of the Borrower, as amended from time
to time.
(b) "Fund" means the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund, a statutory
body established pursuant to the Replanting Act;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and the Fund of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(d) "Replanting Program" means the Fund's ongoing program
to assist rubber growers in the replacement of over-aged rubber
trees with high yielding rubber varieties and the introduction
of modern methods of rubber cultivation, in accordance with the
Replanting Act and the rules and re'3ulations established pursuant
thereto;
(e) "Rubber Cess" means the levy imposed on rubber exports
from the Borrower's territory pursuant to Section 5 of the Re-
planting Act for the purpose of financing the Replanting Program;
(f) "MOAC" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Coopera-
tives of the Borrower;
(g) "DOA" means the Department of Agriculture within MOAC;
(h) "RRC" means the Rubber Research Center, an administra-
tive unit within DOA's Rubber Division;
(i) "LDD" means the Land Development Department within
MOAC; and


﻿-3-
(j) "OAE" means the Office of Agricultural Economics within
MOAC.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred and forty-two million dollars ($142,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.09. The Fund is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions for expenditures
in respect of goods and services required for Part A of the
Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the Fund to carry out Part A of the Project
and to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take or
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable the Fund to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available to the Fund an amount
equivalent to one hundred and forty-one million three hundred
thousand dollars ($141,300,000) or such other amount as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, out of the proceeds of
the Loan on a grant basis to finance the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for carrying out Part A of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the
Project through DOA, LDD and OAE, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that DOA facilities at
Sawii, Kanthuli and Nai-Chong are made available for the Fund to
carry out Part A (3) of the Project.
Section 3.03. With respect to part B (1) of the Project,
the Borrower shall: (a) review, or cause to be reviewed, the
staffing, organization and financing needs of the RRC to meet the
future research requirements for an expansion of rubber develop-
ment and submit the findings of such review to the Bank by
June 30, 1982, for its comments; and


﻿-5-
(b) implement such measures as the Borrower shall deem
appropriate, taking into account the views of the Bank.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts B (3) (a) and (b) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such
employment to be made in accordance with principles and proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services required for Part B of the
Project and financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be
used exclusively for such Part of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Part B of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part B of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services required for Part
B of the Project and financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in such Part of the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in Part B of the Project
and to examine the goods required for Part B of the Project and
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably


﻿-6-
request concerning Part B of the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan made for such Part of the Project and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon award by the Borrower, of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part B of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agre5ed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of Part B of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out Part B of the Project and shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,


﻿-7-
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or admin!strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part B of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out Part B of the Project or any part thereof, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures for Part B of the Project described in Category
(2) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures made for Part B of
the Project on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure and


﻿-8-
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine such
records.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate
accounts referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than 6 months after the end of -ach
such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by such
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for wh1ch they were provided; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
separate account, records and expenditures and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) allow the Fund to adopt a policy whereby the level
of its grant to rubber replanters will be reviewed annually
for necessary adjustments to reflect Thanges in input prices,
wage rates and technical recommendations made by RRC; and
(b) simplify the procedures for approving adjustments in the
level of the Fund's grant to rubber replanters.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall provide the Fund with
the necessary funds to bring into production all rubber replant-
ings supported under Part A of the Project.
Section 4.06. In accordance with its policy of ensuring the
financial self-sufficiency of the Fund in the long term, the
Borrower shall:
(a) review with the Bank, from time to time, the level of
Rubber cess, its allocation and the incentives of smallholders to
participate in rubber production; and
(b) exchange views with the Bank prior to making any changes
therein.


﻿-9-
Section 4.07. Without any limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of Section 4.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall, from time to time, exchange views with the Bank concerning
the level of other taxes and duties on the rubber production,
marketing and export.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall periodically exchange
views with the Bank on the suitability of the terms and conditions
applicable to the provision of funds to smallholders for the
development of tree crops other than the replanting of rubber.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall operate and maintain or
cause to be operated and maintained all facilities included in
Part B of the Project in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive, financial, agricultural and engineering practices.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Fund shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the Fund under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Fund will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Replanting Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of the Fund to carry out the cove-
nants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agree-
ment, or the structure, organization, powers, responsibilities, or
financial resources of the Fund shall have been changed otherwise
so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Fund
to carry out its functions under the Replanting Act or the cove-
nants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agree-
ment.
(d) The levy of the Rubber Cess shall have been suspended,
in whole or in part, pursuant to Section 6 of the Replanting Act


﻿- 10 -
so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Fund
to carry out Part A of the Project.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CDC Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms and conditions
of the CDC Loan Agreement; or
(B) the CDC Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfac-
tory of the Bank that:
(A) such   suspension,   cancellation,  termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement and of
the Fund under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (e) (i)
(10) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement


﻿- 11 -
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the execution and delivery of the Project Agree-
ment on behalf of the Fund has been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are F:pecified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Fund and is legally
binding upon the Fund in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 6dL   o       c , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 2
Kingdom of Thailand
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINANCE                            82823-TH
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Fund
(a) Fertilizers               86,000,000           65%
and chemicals
(b) Vehicles, equip-           1,680,000           40%
ment and civil
works
(c) Planting materials         6,600,000           40%
(d) First two install-        19,300,000           30%
ments of labor
payments to rubber
replanters
(e) Salaries/per diem          2,300,000           30%
allowances of Fund
field staff
(f) Technical assistance         500,000          100%
and training
(2) DOA
(a) Fertilizers, chemi-          172,000           65%
cals, vehicles,
equipment and civil
works


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(b) Planting materials          18,000            40%
(3) LDD
(a) Equipment, vehicles        105 300            70%
and materials
(b) Technical assistance        25,000           100%
and training
(4) OAE
Technical assistance           300,000           100%
and training
(5) Unallocated                   25,000,000
TOTAL              142,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, -ianufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if he amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Bnrrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the


﻿- 15 -
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to strengthen and support the Borrower's
tree crop development program and consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:   Fund - A four-year time slice (April 1982 - April 1986)
of the Fund's entire program including, in particular:
(1) initial replanting with high-yielding budded
rubber on approximately 200,000 hectares of old
rubber (50,000 hectares per annum), and develop-
ment and maintenance of such replantings;
(2) completion of development, and maintenance, of
young rubber on approximately 212,000 hectares
replanted prior to April 1, 1982;
(3) training of Fund staff in the cultivation of
coconut and its intercrops;
(4) provision of technical support to smallholders
for establishment and maintenance, throughout the
immature period, of new high-yielding budded
rubber; and
(5) administration and management activities, including
construction of additional branch offices and
provision of vehicles and equipment.
Part B:   MOAC
(1) expansion and strengthening of the research capability
in RRC;
(2) establishment by DOA of 60 hectares of coconut seed
gardens in the South of Thailand; and
(3) strengthening of the Borrower's agro-economic planning
capability to serve and guide the tree crop subsector
through:


﻿- 17 -
(a) undertaking by OAE of a study of the potential for
tree crop development nationwide, including the
financial, technical and institutional implications
thereof;
(b) undertaking by LDD of a land-use survey of the
coconut growing areas in six provinces in the South
of Thailand and carrying out a study to assess the
current situation in regard to land-use data with a
view to preparing a proposal for a land-use resur-
vey of the country; and
(c) training of OAE staff in the economic aspects of
tree crop development, processing and marketing.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1986.


﻿-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1987
through   August 15, 2001                   4,735,000
On February 15, 2002                             4,685,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal, see General Condi-
tions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
oA th. General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                              1.75%
before maturity
More than three years but                              3.50%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                                6.40%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                             9.30%
not more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but                           10.45%
not more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                              11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 21 -
the Kingdom of Thailand may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of Thailand if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in
the Kingdom of Thailand equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 22 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Notwithstanding the provisions contained in Part A.1 of
this Schedule:
(a) contracts for civil works, each estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $500,000, and contracts for vehicles and
equipment may be procured in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures of the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) contracts for urgently needed fertilizers and chemicals
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000 each, up
to an aggregate amount of the equivalent of $2,500,000, may be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures of
the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) research equipment, coconut seed nuts, and other mis-
cellaneous items costing less than the equivalent of $15,000 each,
up to an aggregate amount of the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be
purchased by prudent shopping on the basis of at least three price
quotations.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost in excess of
the equivalent of $250,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower or the Fund, as
the case may be, shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 23 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower or the Fund, as the case may be, shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish
to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower or the Fund, as the case may be, and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph but excluding such contract on account of which with-
drawals are requested on the basis of certificates of expendi-
tures, the Borrower or the Fund, as the case may be, shall
furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
or the Fund, as the case may be, and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   49     day of    A  , 198 4.
FOR SECRETARY


