Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ieport No. 19967-BR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SOCIAL PROTECTION SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SP SECAL)
Loan No. 4430- BR
December 21, 1999
Human Development Department (HD)
Brazil Country Management Unit (LCC5C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency ULJnit                      Real (R$)
December 1995, US$1.00              R$0.97
December 1996                       R$1.04
December 1997                 =     R$1.12
December 1998                       R$1.21
July 1999                           R$1.90
December 1999                       R$1.86
FISCAL YEAR
July I to December 31
AkBBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIH                   System of Hospital Reimbursement
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
FAT                   Workers' Protective Fund
FGTS                  Employee's Severance Fund
FUNDEF                National Education Development and Maintenance
Fund
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
IBGE                  Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics
IDB                   Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                   Intemational Monetary Fund
IPEA                  Institute of Applied Economics and Research
LIBOR                 London Interbank Offer Rate
MEC                   Ministry of Education and Culture
MPAS                  Ministry of Social Security and Social Assistance
NGO                   Non Governmental Organization
PAB                   Floor on assistance for ambulatory heath care to
municipalities
PLANFOR               Labor Ministry Training Programs
PMDE                  Maintenance and Development of Schools Program
PME                   Monthly employment survey
PNAD                  National Household Survey
PSF                   Family Health Program
SAL                   Structural Adjustment Loan
SECAL                 Sector Adjustment Loan
SPA/MPO               Secretariat of Planning and Evaluation
SUS                   Unified Health System
Vice President:                        Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Manager for Brazil:           Mr. Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:                             Mr. Xavier Coll
Task Manager:                            Mr. Charlie Griffin



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
page number
Preface                                                                          ii
Evaluation Summary                                                              iv
Part One     Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan Implementation Assessment
I.  Background .1
II.   Program Objectives.                                                         3
III.         Achievement of Program Objectives.                                   4
IV.          Major Factors Affecting the Program.                                 7
V.           Program Sustainability.                                              9
VI.   Bank Performance .10
VII.   Borrower Performance .11
VIII.   Assessment of Outcome .11
IX.   Future Operations .11
X.   Lessons Learned .12
Part Two   Statistical Annex of ICR Tables .14
Appendixes
A. ICR Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
(Ministerio do Planejamento, Orcamento e Gestao, Secretaria de
Assuntos Intemacionais, SEAIN)
D. Map IBRD No. 20444R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SOCIAL PROTECTION SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 4430- BR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Social Protection Special
Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 4430 - BR), in the amount of US$252.52 million, which was
approved on January 7, 1999, signed on March 9, 1999, and made effective upon signing. The
loan was fully disbursed in a single tranche upon effectiveness and closed on June 30, 1999.
Parallel financing for the program was provided by the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) with a three-tranche adjustment loan in the amount of US$2.2 billion.
The ICR was authored by Mr. Truman Packard, Social Protection Specialist (LCSHD),
under the supervision of Ms. Ana-Maria Arriagada, Sector Manager Social Protection (LCSHD)
and Charles Griffin, Sector Manager Health, Population & Nutrition (LCSHD), of the Latin
America and Caribbean Region, and was reviewed by Joachim Von Amsberg, Senior Economist
for the Brazil Country Management Unit (LCC5C). The borrower provided contributions that
have been incorporated to the ICR and are reproduced (unedited) in an appendix to the report.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission to Brasilia,
September 20 - 24, 1999. The report is based on material in the project file, interviews with key
participants in the loan's preparation, the implementation team's counterparts, and the findings of
Bank analysis of the social protection system in Brazil.






iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SOCIAL PROTECTION SPECIAL SECTOR ADJIUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 4430- BR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Since the early 1990s Brazil has been engaged in a major reform of its economy, moving
away from import substitution and state-dominated enterprise, toward greater emphasis on private
initiative, competition and international integration. A central pillar of the new economic model
was the Real Plan, launched in July 1994 to secure price stability and economic growth. Under
the Real Plan, Brazil made visible progress toward economic stability and eliminating poverty.
With economic stability and the elimination of the inflation tax on household income, the poverty
rate declined dramatically by about 30% in the two years of stabilization after 1994, and remained
stable from 1995 to 1997.
2.    However, while the Real Plan succeeded in controlling inflation and creating an
improved economic environment for private enterprise and job creation, progress with fiscal
adjustment and reform of the public sector was lagging. Price stability caused the government's
primary fiscal deficit to balloon, increasing the country's vulnerability to financial shocks.
Brazil's fiscal vulnerability became apparent with the impact of the Asian financial crisis that
reached emerging markets in Latin America in October 1997. The impact of the Asian crisis
indicated the urgent need for swift fiscal adjustment, underpinned by constitutional reforms and
strengthening of the country's social safety net.
3.    Less than a year later, waning investor confidence in the wake of the Russian debt default
of August 1998, caused a second, rapid flight of capital from emerging markets. The hemorrhage
of reserves and pressure on the Real once again forced the Government to confront its
burdensome public sector deficit that at the close of 1998 reached 8%  of GDP.  The
administration of Fernando Henrique Cardoso - reelected by a wide margin in October -
committed to a program of deep structural reforms to bring public finances into balance. Against
this backdrop of financial crisis, and economic recession large segments of Brazil's population
lay vulnerable. Although ready to address the country's fiscal deficit, the Cardoso administration
was also committed to protecting the core programs in social assistance, health, education and
labor that underpin Brazil's social safety net.  The first Social Protection Special Sector
Adjustment Loan (SP SECAL) for US$252.52 million, is the second component of the Bank's
US$4.5 billion commitment to the IMF organized Brazil Rescue Package. The lending
instrument chosen to support the protection of essential social expenditures, was a singletranche
adjustment operation (STO) - the first in a sequenced lending program to protect and reform
Brazil's social protection system.
Program Objectives
4.    Based on a medium-term strategy agreed between the Government and the Bank, this
loan was the first in a planned series of adjustment operations to support the strengthening of
Brazil's social protection system. The central aim of the Bank's support was to minimize federal



v
budget cuts to the social assistance, health, education and labor sectors during the 1998 fiscal
adjustment, and to provide budgetary protection for twenty two targeted programs for the poor
administered in each of the separate sector ministries.
5.     The specific objectives of the first phase of the program supported by the Bank were to:
(a) maintain expenditures for human capital investment in basic education, medical care and
nutrition services; (b) provide support to maintain minimum consumption levels of the working
poor; (c) lengthen eligibility for temporary income support through unemployment insurance for
formal sector workers; and (d) maintain benefits for the aged and disabled residing in poor
households with no other means of support.' In addition to these specific objectives aimed at
preventing the fall into poverty of vulnerable households in the course of the deep economic
recession that was expected in 1999, the Government committed to continue efforts to address the
country's the underlying problem of income inequality. Preventing an increase in inequality
during the expected contraction would, in turn, slow the incidence of poverty.
Implementation Experience
6.     As is the case in single-tranche adjustment lending, most of the objectives of the SP
SECAL were met prior to the loan's presentation to the Board. These included (i) satisfactory
macroeconmic progress through essential fiscal and structural adjustment; (ii) measures taken in
the three years previous to the crisis to pilot and strengthen interventions in social assistance,
health, and education as well as the extension of temporary income support to the unemployed;
and (iii) submission by the Administration of a revised federal budget proposal to Congress on
November 9, 1998, which maintained resource allocations to the twenty two protected programs
for fiscal year 1999 at 1998 levels, despite widespread budget cuts in other sectors.
7.     The Government's success in maintaining and increasing budget allocations to the
protected programs lies in. sharp contrast with cuts across the board in other areas. The revised
budget proposal for fiscal year 1999 - submitted in November 1998 - provided greater protection
to the social sector ministries relative to other areas of public spending by cutting back on
investment projects by nearly half and by cutting regular activities by about 11 percent relative to
earlier budget proposals. Furthermore, setting the protected programs apart has increased their
visibility and made room for budgetary pruning in the social sectors that has released resources
for substantial increases in the allocations to these core programs in the budget for fiscal year
2000.
8.     The creation of a paclkage of protected programs for special budgetary consideration is
seen as an important institutional innovation in Brazil, that is expected to increase the efficiency
of the country's social safety net. Implementation of the Social Protection Strengthening
Program has required a new institutional structure to be put in place that allows greater
coordination and monitoring across the social ministries and at the different levels of government.
The establishment of this new institutional structure for more efficient delivery of social
protection was a key accomplishment of the Brazilian authorities in the months prior to the crisis,
as well as a core condition in the approval and disbursement of the IDB's adjustment loan. The
protected programs are housedl separately in four different ministries - Education, Health, Labor
and Social Security and Assistance. An executive secretary has been appointed in each ministry
to monitor progress in the implementation of the set of programs in that particular sector. The
executive secretary submits regular progress reports to a coordinating unit in the Ministry of
Budget and Planning, which in turn reports to a specially appointed Social Sector Advisor in the
office of the President.



vi
9.    In executing its Social Protection Strengthening Program, the authorities in Brazil have
established a new internet-based budget tracking system that both increases transparency and
underpins the new cross-ministerial structure for program implementation. A web site has been
set up that publicizes performance targets for the Social Protection Program overall, and provides
the public with progress reports in real time on advances in each of the social sectors. An
important step taken to reinforce the new institutional links between the line ministries, is the
orchestration of separate data bases into a single information system for the social protection
system. Although not yet fully implemented, the new links between ministerial data bases are
expected to help administrators monitor the incidence of social spending, and evaluate the
effectiveness of the protected programs. Increased coordination between the ministries in the use
of available data, as well as in the collection of new data, should further contribute toward better
understanding of households working and transacting in Brazil's large infornal economy.
10.    Focussing the support of the international development banks and the IMF behind the
Government's commitment to protect essential social programs, has helped to raise the visibility
of the Administration's fight against poverty and inequality. While there have been politically
motivated delays in the approval of the social protection loans in the months since the crisis -
especially in approval of the loan from the IDB - these delays have catalyzed a helpful public
debate between the Government, international and domestic non-governmental organizations, and
other interest groups on the general direction and objectives of social programs.
II.   In addition to the accomplishments discussed above, a substantial body of analytical and
operational work has been conducted in the months since the approval of the SP SECAL that will
form the basis of future Bank support for the strengthening of social protection in Brazil. This
work - which includes the preparation of two follow-up investment loans to support the
eradication of child labor and temporary work-fare programs for the poor, has been conducted
largely in the context of the Bank's participation in the supervision of theIDB's adjustment loan,
and the monitoring of progress made by the Brazilian authorities.
Performance
12.    The Borrower's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal the first
Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan, was highly satisfactory. Although supported
by two large sector adjustment loans from the World Bank and the IDB, most of the reforms
included in the first phase of the Social Protection Strengthening Program were designed and
implemented by the Brazilian authorities with the objective of increasing the efficiency of the
Government's response to the poor and the vulnerable. The most important of the reforms
initiated by the Brazilian authorities, were the measures passed to improve the role of the Federal
government in social sectors largely dominated by the states. Where state programs in the social
sectors - most notably in health and education - failed to target the poor, these reforms
strengthened the role of the Federal government as a force for redistribution of public resources.
13.    Bank performance in the identification, preparation, appraisal and the shortened
supervision period of the first Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan, was highly
satisfactory. The Bank, in coordination with the IDB and the IMF, responded in a timely fashion
to the Government's sudden need for financial assistance in the wake of the Russian default and
the international crisis that ensued. The Bank bolstered its financial backing of the development
of Brazil's social protection system, with technical support in evaluating the impact of key social
expenditure on poverty, and in sharing international best practice in the design targeted
interventions in labor, health, education, social security and social assistance. The appraisal
conducted for the SP SECAL in November 1998 gave the Bank the information necessary to
make additional preparations for more a severe recession in Brazil in 1999. In the course of the



vii
year since the negotiation ofi the first SP SECAL, two social protection investment operations
were prepared and made available to the authorities. The two investment operations - to support
an expansion of the Bolsa Escola and Child Labor Eradication initiatives, as well as a temporary
public employment program modeled after the Trabajar program in Argentina - have not been
formally negotiated. However, the two operations were ready and available in mid 1999 for
immediate approval and implementation had the economic downturn been more serious, and
could be deployed should there be any unexpected upset in Brazil's current economic recovery.
Program Sustainability and Assessment of Outcome
14.   The sustainability of Brazil's national social protection system and budgetary protection
of the twenty two programs in health, education and social assistance supported by the first SP
SECAL is likely, but at risk. Brazil's recovery from the effects of the 1998 financial crisis has
been much faster than was predicted by both the Government and the international financial
institutions. Through a program of swift but careful cuts to the federal budget and with liquidity
support provided by the Rescue Package, Brazil has managed to avoid a deep recession, and is
expected to close the year with a small, but positive rate of growth. However, the country
remains vulnerable to financial crisis despite the fiscal adjustments made by the Government in
1999. Critical to the objective of reducing Brazil's vulnerability to financial shocks and to
eliminating poverty, is the Administration's program of social security and pension reform.
Publicly provided pensions and social security represent the bulk of social spending in Brazil,
however, the country's system is both regressive and distortionary, and poses a formidable
challenge to the Administration's objectives of establishing a sustainable and efficient social
protection system.
15.   Overall, the outcome of the operation is considered highly satisfactory. The analysis of
preliminary indicators since the disbursement of the SP SECAL in this report concludes that the
Government's Social Protection Strengthening Program is well on track and headed in an
appropriate direction.
Lessons Learned
16.    The main conclusions and principal lessons learned in the implementation of the first
Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan, are:
(i) Ownership in Emergency Adjustment Lending. Although financial crises can provide the
opportunity to leverage otherwise difficult reforms, especially in the social sectors, counterpart
ownership of reform programs is critical to effective implementation and rapid disbursal of funds.
The objectives and conditions of the first SP SECAL were largely designed as an extension of
efforts already underway to consolidate Brazil's social safety net. The Bank's willingness to
support a phased program o:f reforms and its rapid response, have ensured both budgetary
protection for the twenty two c.ore programs and a continuing dialogue on a more ambitious set of
reforms in follow up phases of the program - including interventions targeted at the informal
sector, on which there is less agreement between the Bank and the authorities.
(ii) Effective Political Communication. Any operation involving the social sectors should be
accompanied by a comprehensive and accessible public information campaign. However, it is
not sufficient to simply make information available to the public. Reforming governments and
their partners have an obligation to make their reform rationale understood. In retrospect the
debate around the selection of the twenty two protected programs in the months since the SP
SECAL was disbursed was helpful in consolidating a clear "Agenda Social" between



viii
Government and the NGO community. However, in interviews with both the Bank team and its
counterparts respondents commented that the nature and objectives of the program should have
been better communicated to avoid delays in implementation.
(iii) Clear "Packaging" of Bank Support. Related to the second lesson learned, the rationale
and extent of the Bank's support should be made clear at entry, not only to the Borrower but also
publicly in the borrowing country. The problems that arose from a lack of understanding of
adjustment lending and confusion as to the use of the disbursed funds have already been
discussed. Given the added difficulties of adjustment lending in response to a financial crisis,
many respondents have suggested that it may have been less confusing and more transparent to
have packaged the Bank's and the IDB's participation in the Brazil Rescue Package simply as
emergency liquidity assistance rather than "Social Protection" or "Social Security" loans. Having
said this, it is important to note that the Bank and its partners have, in addition to preempting a
payments crisis, accomplished substantial reforms in both policy areas. In social protection, these
accomplishments include budgetary protection of the twenty two targeted programs, advice on
budgetary tracking, follow up evaluations in each of the social sectors, and analytical work that
will contribute to better delivery of social assistance and income support to the working poor.
(iv) Selecting an Appropriate Instrument. Rather than risk delays and failure in the
achievement of the program's long term aims by locking the client into an overly ambitions
agenda, the Bank team chose to negotiate a medium-term strategy, and to allocate its reform goals
over several single-tranche adjustment operations (STOs). The choice of a small STO for the first
SP SECAL over the traditional multiple-tranche allowed the Bank to reward reforms already
taken in the months previous to the crisis, as well as provide incentives for deeper, subsequent
measures. The option of a smaller STO with the promise of future lending provided the Bank
with greater agility in the disbursement of the SP SECAL, and will enhance the institution's
efficiency and leverage in establishing the conditions of the proposed follow up operations,
should demand for these arise. Politically motivated delays in the passage of the IDB's multi-
tranche social protection loan would indicate that the choice ofSTOs for both the SS SECAL and
the SP SECAL was appropriate given Brazil's difficult political climate. Further, choosing
different lending instruments from that chosen for the IDB's loan will extended the dialogue on
social protection in Brazil over a longer period and allow a better sequencing of lending resources
between the two institutions.






ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page I of 22
PART ONE: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I. BACKGROUND
1.    Since the early 1990s Brazil has been engaged in a major reform of its economy, moving
away from import substitution and state-dominated enterprise, toward greater emphasis on private
initiative, competition and international integration. A central pillar of the new economic model
was the Real Plan, launched in July 1994 to secure price stability and economic growth. Founded
on a managed exchange rate regime, the plan was accompanied by a program of privatization,
deregulation and increased openness to foreign investment and trade. Under the Real Plan, Brazil
made visible progress toward economic stability and eliminating poverty. Price inflation, that ran
rampant at 2,668% in 1994, fell to 7% in 1997. Growth of GDP, although volatile, averaged 4%
over the same period. With economic stability and the elimination of the inflation tax on
household income, the poverty rate declined dramatically by about 30% in the two years of
stabilization after 1994, and remained stable from 1995 to 1997.
2.     However, while the Real Plan succeeded in controlling inflation and creating an
improved economic environment for private enterprise and job creation, fiscal adjustment and
reform of the public sector was lagging. Price stability caused the government's primary fiscal
deficit to balloon, increasing the country's vulnerability to financial shocks.  Brazil's
vulnerability became apparent with the impact of the Asian financial crisis that reached emerging
markets in Latin America in October 1997. In response to a sudden slide in the stock market and
a large loss of reserves, the Brazilian Government was forced to double domestic interest rates to
maintain the managed currency regime and protect its hard won macroeconomic gains. Although
it succeeded in restoring confidence with the defensive rise in interest rates, and quickly regained
access to international capital markets, the reprieve was only temporary and came at a cost -
unemployment remained above 8% in 1998 and poverty in Brazil's six major metropolitan areas
in June 1998 was 5% higher than in the previous year.
3.     The impact of the Asian crisis in 1997 indicated the urgent need for swift fiscal
adjustment, underpinned by constitutional reforms and strengthening of the country's social
safety net. Central to the government's reform strategy lay two amendments to the 1988 Federal
Constitution that would allow comprehensive restructuring of the public sector and reform of
social security. However, political opposition to these adjustments caused Brazil's fiscal position
to continue to deteriorate, while the economy stagnated under punitively high rates of interest.
4.     Less than a year later, waning investor confidence in the wake of the Russian debt default
of August 1998, caused a second, rapid flight of capital from emerging markets. The spread
between the rate on Brazil's sovereign bonds and United States Treasury bills peaked in mid
September 1998 at nearly double the spread reached in October 1997. Struggling to maintain the
exchange rate regime in place, the Brazilian authorities raised interest rates yet again and
intervened in the foreign exchange market, losing almost US$30 billion in reserves by October
1998.
5.     The hemorrhage of reserves and pressure on the Real once again forced the Government
to confront its burdensome public sector deficit that at the close of 1998 reached 8% of GDP.
The administration of Fernando Henrique Cardoso - reelected by a wide margin in October -
committed to a program of deep structural reforms to bring public finances into balance. Against
this backdrop of financial crisis, punitive rates of interest and an economic recession that was
expected to deepen in 1999, large segments of Brazil's population lay vulnerable. Although
ready to address the country's debilitating fiscal deficit, the Cardoso administration was also
committed to protecting the core programs in social assistance, health, education and labor that



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 2 of 22
underpin Brazil's social safety net, and to providing adequate protection to face the possibility of
a deepening recession.
1000                                                          80,000
900                                                           70,000
800
60,000
700                               \_
.Q  600                                                           50,000  c
IL  500                                                           40,000 
400
30,000 (
300
20,000
200
100                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10,000
Mar- Apr- May- Jun- Jul- Aug- Sep- Oct- Nov- Dec- Jan-
98   98   98  98   98   98   98   98  98  98  99
International Bonid (IDU) Traded Spread .....GosInternational Reserves '
6.     To allay investor concerns and to preempt a payments crisis, the IMF organized a
US$41.5 billion Rescue Package coordinated with the IDB and the World Bank, to support the
Government's reform program. Although the Government was unable to sustain its defense of
the Real and was forced to devalue the currency in January 1999, the Rescue Package was
essential in leveraging support for reform while minimizing the collateral effects of fiscal
adjustment and protecting essential public expenditure for the poor. The first Social Protection
Special Sector Adjustment Loan (SP SECAL) for US$252.52 million, is the second component of
the Bank's US$4.5 billion commitment to the IMF organized Brazil Rescue Package1  The
lending instrument chosen to support the protection of essential social expenditures, was a single
tranche adjustment operation (STO) - the first in a sequenced lending prograrn to protect and
reform Brazil's social protection system. This ICR reports on progress achieved to date in the
implementation of the Government's program of reformns to the system.
The first, largest component of the Bank's contribution to the Brazil Rescue Package, the Social Security
Special Sector Adjustment Loan, No. P063340 (President's Report No. 7277 BR), is reviewed in a
separate ICR.



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 3 of 22
II. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
7.     Brazil has a diversified set of government programs administrated at the Federal, state
and municipal levels that make up its social protection system. These programs range from
temporary benefits for the unemployed, to basic education and medical care for the poor, and
income support for the elderly and disabled that are not otherwise covered by the country's social
security system. The central aim of the Bank's support was to minimize federal budget cuts to
the social assistance, health, education and labor sectors during the 1998 fiscal adjustment, and to
provide budgetary protection for twenty two targeted programs for the poor administered in each
of the separate sector ministries. These twenty two programs were identified in consultation with
the Bank and the IDB.
8.     The first phase of the Government's Social Protection Strengthening Program - supported
by the first Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan (SP SECAL) of US$252.52 million
from the World Bank and a parallel multi-tranche adjustrnent loan of US$2 billion from the IDB -
consisted of specific reforms to coordinate and strengthen social protection and the piloting of
innovative programs undertaken in the three years prior to the 1998 crisis. These measures were
aimed at increasing the coherence and efficiency of social protection programs, to better prevent
vulnerable groups from falling deeper into poverty during economic downturns.
9.     The specific objectives of the first phase of the program supported by the Bank were to:
(a) maintain expenditures for human capital investment in basic education, medical care and
nutrition services; (b) provide support to maintain minimum consumption levels of the working
poor; (c) lengthen eligibility for temporary income support through unemployment insurance for
formal sector workers; and (d) maintain benefits for the aged and disabled residing in poor
households with no other means of support.2 In addition to these specific objectives aimed at
preventing the fall into poverty of vulnerable households in the course of the deep economic
recession that was expected in 1999, the Government committed to continue efforts to address the
country's the underlying problem of income inequality. Preventing an increase in inequality
during the expected contraction would, in turn, slow the incidence of poverty.
10.    The loan's objectives were clear and in the context of a sequenced, medium-term
framework, were appropriately designed for the fast-disbursing, single tranche operation. The
objectives were consistent with the Government's policy agenda, as articulated in the Letter of
Sector Policy, dated December 16, 1998. The loan's objectives were in line with the Bank's last
update of its Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Brazil, discussed by the Board on June 2,
1998, which sets the strengthening of the social protection system as a priority for the country.
2 The last objective overlaps with some of the reforms supported in the Social Security Special Sector
Adjustment Loan (SS SECAL), however, while the SS SECAL approached reform to Brazil's social
security and pensions system as a whole, the SP SECAL protected a single specific program of
income assistance to poor and disabled elderly in rural areas. A separation of this largely non-
contributory income assistance program from the rest of the contributory social security system is
being considered for the second phase of structural adjustment.



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 4 of22
III. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
11.    An overview of recent trends in poverty and inequality in Brazil, a detailed description of
the twenty two protected programs identified by the Borrower with assistance from the Bank, and
the structure and conditions of the accompanying multi-tranche adjustment loan from the IDB,
are provided in the President's Report No. 7281-BR. As is the case in single-tranche adjustment
lending, most of the objectives of the SP SECAL were met prior to the loan's presentation to the
Board. These included (i) satisfactory macroeconmic progress through essential fiscal and
structural adjustment; (ii) measures taken in the three years previous to the crisis to pilot and
strengthen interventions in social assistance, health, and education as well as the extension of
temporary income support to the unemployed; and (iii) submission by the Administration of a
revised federal budget proposal to Congress on November 9, 1998, which maintained resource
allocations to the twenty two protected programs for fiscal year 1999 at 1998 levels, despite
widespread budget cuts in other sectors.3
12.    Since the objectives of the first SP SECAL are part of a phased process supported by
sequenced sector adjustment and investment operations and closely tied to the conditions of a
multi-tranche adjustment loan from the IDB, it is too early to fully assess the progress achieved
toward meeting the Government's long tern aims to strengthen social protection. However, an
analysis of current indicators as to whether these long term goals are likely to be achieved is vital
to the continuing dialogue with the Borrower, and as a guide to future Bank support of further
strengthening of Brazil's social risk management system.
13.    This section presents the key institutional indicators of progress achieved under the
Government's medium-term strategy since the federal budget for 1999 was passed by Congress,
and the first SP SECAL was disbursed. However, the authorities in Brazil have stated clearly that
the most important social achievement of the Bank's response to the 1998 crisis - and that of its
partner institutions - was to send a critical signal of confidence to investors that slowed the
course of the recession and accelerated Brazil's recovery, mitigating the impact of the crisis on
the poor.
iiia. Reinforcing Fiscal Protection of the Twenty Two Protected Programs
14.    As in most countries in Latin America, Brazil's "Social Protection System", until very
recently, was an uncoordinated array of government interventions in the social sectors - health,
education, labor, social assistance and social security - overseen in a number of ministries and at
different levels of government. In the three years previous to the 1998 crisis, and particularly in
the twelve months leading to September 1998, the Government undertook a series of reforms to
consolidate public expenditure for the poor, and to identify a package of twenty two essential
social programs.4 These twenty two "Protected Programs" have come to form the bedrock of
federally assisted social protection in Brazil.
3Details on preparatory measures taken by the Bank and Borrower, and the rationale behind the conditions
of Board presentation, are also contained in the President's Report.  Evidence of the Borrower's
compliance with all of the conditions for disbursement of the loan is documented in the project file.
4The reforms in each social sector taken by the Government in the months leading up to the 1998 crisis, as
well as Brazil's progress in fighting poverty, are described in detail in the President's Report (No.
P7281-BR).



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 5 of22
_
14000 
12000    __ ___      __-__ _              _______         ,,  '
10000                           ____               __
_   8000                       ___    -             _
|    ~6000              91            !Elni  
4000      --                                       _     _ _   _
2000
1995      1996       1997      1998       1999      2000
Education
inHeakh
Labor
= SocialAssistance, and forElderly&Disabled
_-,Totalon 22 Programs
15.    The Government's success in maintaining and increasing budget allocations to the
protected programs lies in sharp contrast with cuts across the board in other areas. The revised
budget proposal for fiscal year 1999 - submitted in November 1998 - provided greater protection
to the social sector ministries relative to other areas of public spending by cutting back on
investment projects by nearly half and by cutting regular activities by about 1 1 percent relative to
earlier budget proposals. To illustrate, cuts in spending on defense and transportation - sectors
supported by powerful interest lobbies - were as deep as 43% of outlays in the previous year.
16.    Within the social sectors further protection was provided for the twenty two federal
programs that mostly benefit women and children; primary education; social assistance aimed at
poor families; the aged; and counter-cyclical programs to safeguard the incomes of formal sector
workers and training for workers laid off during the recession. Budget protection, in primary
health and education in particular, was implemented by setting floors on per-capita spending at
the state and municipal levels, to provide a more equal distribution of public resources between
the relatively poor Northern states and the much wealthier South.
17.    Furthermore, setting the protected programs apart has increased their visibility and made
room for budgetary pruning in the social sectors that has released resources for substantial
increases in the allocations to these core programs in the budget for fiscal year 2000. As shown
in Figure 2, the federal budget shows a steady increase in the allocations to the protected
programs into 2000 - an increase well above that expected by the World Bank and the IDB.



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 6 of 22
iii.b. New Institutional Infrastructure for Effective Coordination Across Line Ministries
18.    The creation of a package of protected programs for special budgetary consideration is
seen as an important institutional innovation in Brazil, that is expected to increase the efficiency
of the country's social safety net. Implementation of the Social Protection Strengthening
Program has required a new institutional structure to be put in place that allows greater
coordination and monitoring of the twenty two protected programs across the social ministries
and at the different levels of government - federal, state and municipal. The establishment of this
new institutional structure for more efficient delivery of social protection was a key
accomplishment of the Brazilian authorities in the months prior to the crisis, as well as a core
condition in the approval and disbursement of the IDB's adjustment loan.
19.    The set of twenty tvvo protected programs are housed separately in four different
ministries - Education, Health, Labor and Social Security and Assistance. An executive secretary
has been appointed in each ministry to monitor progress in the implementation of the set of
programs in that particular sector. The executive secretary submits regular progress reports to a
coordinating unit in the Ministry of Budget and Planning, which in turn reports to a specially
appointed Social Sector Advisor in the office of the President.
20.    While it is still too early to judge the efficiency of this new institutional set up, the formal
link between the social ministries and directly to the Presidency is expected to improve the
Government's ability to respond to the needs of the poor in economic downturns as well as ensure
that the protected programs remain a budgetary priority. That this new institutional infrastructure
was set up months before the IDB adjustment loan was approved in Congress, is further evidence
of the Government's commitment to increasing the efficiency of its social protection system.
iiic. Increased Transparency and the Emerging Culture of Evaluation and Monitoring
21.    In executing its Social Protection Strengthening Program, the authorities in Brazil have
established a new internet-based budget tracking system that both increases transparency and
underpins the new cross-ministerial structure for program implementation. A web site has been
set up that publicizes performance targets for the Social Protection Program overall, and provides
the public with progress reports in real time on advances in each of the social sectors. In addition
to increasing transparency, the greater availability of information should ensure the political
sustainability of budgetary protection of the twenty two programs.
22.    An important step taken to reinforce the new  institutional links between the line
ministries, and to ensure a coordinated response to the needs of the poor during economic
contractions, is the orchestration of separate data bases into a single information system for the
social protection system. Although not yet fully implemented, the new links between ministerial
data bases are expected to help administrators monitor the incidence of social spending, and
evaluate the effectiveness of the protected programs in graduating the poor out of poverty as well
as in keeping vulnerable households from falling into poverty. Increased coordination between
the ministries in the use of available data, as well as in the collection of new data, should further
contribute toward better understanding of households working and transacting in Brazil's large
informal economy, and in the long run, to providing these sectors with greater access to the
country's formal social protection system.
iiid Public Debate on Social Protection & Consensus Around a New "Agenda Social"
23.    Focussing the support of the international development banks and the IMF behind the
Government's commitment to protect essential social programs amidst deep fiscal cuts, has



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 7 of 22
helped to raise the visibility of the Administration's fight against poverty and inequality. While
there have been politically motivated delays in the approval of the social protection loans in the
months since the crisis - especially in approval of the loan from the IDB5 - these delays have
catalyzed a helpful public debate between the Government, international and domestic non-
governmental organizations, and other interest groups on the general direction and objectives of
social programs.
24.    Debate in and outside of Congress has helped to coalesce support around the twenty two
protected programs. Public debate has forced stakeholders to consider such issues as: which
programs are the right programs to protect; whether these protected programs form a sufficient
social protection system; whether current funding to these programs is adequate; and whether
fiscal arrangements between the federal, state and municipal governments in the delivery of social
protection appropriate, and could they be improved. In the months since the approval of the SP
SECAL the twenty two protected programs have come to form the core of a new "Agenda
Social", that is being nurtured by greater budgetary transparency and increased availability of
information on the progress of government interventions in the social sectors.
25.    In addition to the accomplishments discussed above, a substantial body of analytical and
operational work has been conducted in the months since the approval of the SP SECAL that will
form the basis of future Bank support for the strengthening of social protection in Brazil. This
work - which includes the preparation of two follow-up investment loans to support the
eradication of child labor and temporary work-fare programs for the poor, has been conducted
largely in the context of the Bank's participation in the supervision of the IDB's adjustment loan,
and the monitoring of progress made by the Brazilian authorities.6
IV. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTfNG THE PROGRAM
26.    Although Brazil has had a long history of publicly provided social protection and the
Bank's dialogue with Brazilian authorities on increasing the efficiency of their social safety net
has been ongoing, little analytical or operational work on the social sectors aside from a poverty
assessment was available to the Bank to draw on in the preparation of the loan. Furthermore,
demand for lending support arose suddenly in the midst of a financial crisis. The challenges of
responding rapidly to pre-empt a payments crisis, and of supporting a difficult process of fiscal
adjustment while ensuring the protection of essential social expenditure with scarce prior
information or analysis, were the most important factors affecting the design and implementation
of the SP SECAL. These challenges would extend to the coordination of the Bank's activities
with the IDB, and to the design of follow-up measures leading to the proposed second and third
loans. With the implementation period of the program limited to actions taken prior to Board
presentation, and the assurances of protected social expenditure in the revised 1999 federal
budget, Section IV "major factors affecting the program" should be approached from a design as
well as an implementation perspective.
27.    The operation's principal strength was that the objectives and conditions of the first SP
SECAL were backed by several years of work on the part of Federal authorities in Brazil. The
most important of these prior measures were the reforms passed to increase the efficiency of
spending in the social sectors and to improve fiscal arrangements between the various levels of
government to better coordinate the roles of federal, state and municipal institutions in the
5 See Section IV of this report.
6 Further details on these additional activities are provided in Sections IV and IX of this report.



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 8 of 22
delivery of social services. The Bank's counterparts at SEAIN were prepared with a pre-
identified list of targeted programs that would be set aside for special protection. The amount of
preparatory work already done by the Borrower increased the speed with which the Bank and its
partners could respond, and reduced the effort needed to arrive at a feasible list of protected
programs acceptable to both parties. The Bank and the IDB were able to provide liquidity
support quickly, and avoid pressuring the Government in the midst of a financial crisis to pursue
refonrs it was not already prepared to undertake.
28.    Criticism of the design of the loan arose within the Bank. Many social sector and poverty
specialist felt that the establishment of a temporaryworkfare program - modeled on the Trabajar
program in Argentina - should have been included as a condition of the first SP SECAL. A
temporary, counter-cyclical workfare program was considered the best instrument with which to
provide income support to the working poor in Brazil's large, unprotected informal sector.
However, the Bank's counterparts were wary of setting up any new federal programs especially
in the midst of budgetary cuts, anid skeptical of the benefits of a targeted intervention in the labor
market. The authorities were re'luctant to launch a jobs program that they would later be unable
to dismantle. They were also skeptical about the institutional challenges associated with such a
program launched at short notice at a national scale.
29.    Although there was lack of agreement between the Bank and the Brazilian authorities on
whether a program targeted to the poorest workers in the informal sector would be appropriate,
the Bank team decided to pursue what the Government was prepared to support in the first phase
of the Social Protection Strengthening Program, and to postpone the proposed labor intervention
to the later follow up phase. In the year since the SP SECAL was appraised, analysis of the
Brazilian labor market and dynamics of formal and informal sector employment has been
conducted by the Bank and the IDB, and could be packaged as a possible investment loan in the
near future should current economic conditions sour.7  In the meantime, several states and
municipalities have introduced vvorkfare-type programs themselves. These experiences provide
useful lessons for possible future action at the federal level:
30.    A factor that would affect implementation of the program, especially approval of the
IDB's loan, was a general lack of familiarity with adjustment lending. Unlike its neighbors in the
Region, prior to 1998 Brazil had little (or no) previous experience with adjustment loans. The
bulk of the Bank and the IDB's portfolio in Brazil is held in investment loans financing projects
with more tangible outputs. The lack of familiarity with adjustment loans on the part of the
Bank's counterparts as well as the Brazilian public caused both minor delays in the negotiation of
the loan as well as confusion amTong the line ministries who held expectations for the use of the
borrowed funds. This confusion even provoked pubic accusations from the NGO community of
misuse of funds intended for soc ial programs. These accusations were used by opposition parties
to tie down approval of the IDB's multi-tranche social protection adjustment loan in Congress
until October 1999, and to pressure the government for further - less feasible - budgetary
allocations for the twenty two programs.
7See Sections VI Bank Performance and IX Future Operation, for more details.
8 One interesting observation is the limited uptake in some of the workfare programs despite benefit levels
above one minimum salary. This observation is clearly related to the fact that the current economic crisis is
far less pronounced than initially expected.



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 9 of 22
31.    Finally, the challenge of providing rapid liquidity assistance while leveraging substantive
refonns, further determined how the parallel adjustment loans from the Bank and the IDB would
be coordinated. While the Bank was more immediately concerned with the integrity of Brazil's
social safety net in the midst of the macroeconomic crisis, the IDB tied the conditions for
disbursement of its adjustment loan to the implementation of careful micro analysis and
evaluation of the programs in each of the social sectors. To give the Borrower a greater degree of
flexibility in implementing its phased reform strategy and to extend the period covered by the
loans from the two multilateral institutions, the Bank chose to use the single-tranche lending
instrument that could be quickly disbursed to provide urgent financial support and ensure the
protection of essential social expenditure for the poor. In preparation for proposed follow up
loans, the Bank would participate closely in the supervision of the IDB loan and analysis of the
social sectors. As the Bank was able to disburse its loan rapidly while still maintaining a role in
the supervision of the IDB's loan - as well as its dialogue with the Government on the design of
proposed follow-up operations - the choice of the single-tranche instrument within a framework
of an agreed medium-term strategy with the Government appears to have been correct.
V. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
32.    The sustainability of Brazil's national social protection system and budgetary protection
of the twenty two programs in health, education and social assistance supported by the first SP
SECAL is likely, but at risk. Brazil's recovery from the effects of the 1998 financial crisis has
been much faster than was predicted by both the Government and the international financial
institutions. Through a program of swift but careful cuts to the federal budget and with liquidity
support provided by the Rescue Package, Brazil has managed to avoid a deep recession, and is
expected to close the year with a small, but positive rate of growth. However, the country
remains vulnerable to financial crisis despite the fiscal adjustments made by the Government in
1999.
33.    Poverty, which rose in the year following the onset of the Asian financial crisis to 28.8%
(an increase from 23.6% in September 1996), has persisted between 28% and 29% in the months
to July 1999 (See figure 3 below9). While the Government no longer needs to resort to defensive
interest rate hikes since its decision to float the Real in January 1999, it still faces the challenge of
maintaining price stability in an historically inflation prone economy, and under the burden a still
large fiscal deficit and mounting foreign debt.
34.    Critical to the objective of reducing Brazil's vulnerability to financial shocks and to
eliminating poverty, is the Administration's program of social security and pension reform. The
Bank has estimated that in 1998 the amount of money needed to lift every poor person up to the
poverty line would have amounted to only R$7.8 billion or 1% of GDP. In contrast, the Federal
Government's current deficit for pensions to the public and private sectors is expected grow to
over 3% of GDP in 2000. Publicly provided pensions and social security represent the bulk of
social spending in Brazil, however, the country's system is both regressive and distortionary. A
ruling by the Supreme Court in September 1999 against an increase in the contribution rates of
Federal civil servants dealt a serious blow to the Administration's pension reform strategy. The
Supreme Court's ruling is an indication of the formidable challenge to reform posed by vested
interest in the federal legislature and judiciary that jeopardize the Administration's objectives of
establishing a sustainable and efficient social protection system.
9 Poverty rates are calculated from the Pesquisa Mensal de Emprego. The data are taken only from Brazil's
six major metropolitan regions and consider only labor income.



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 10 of22
40      - ~ - . - - - -     _ _
3 5
30
~25
15
10
10.
oN', <\    Nk"           ~"                 N    \  R~
July 1994 - July 1999
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
35.    Bank performance in the identification, preparation, appraisal and the shortened
supervision period of the first Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan, was highly
satisfactory. The Bank, in coordination with the IDB and the IMF, responded in a timely fashion
to the Government's sudden need for financial assistance in the wake of the Russian default and
the international crisis that ensued. The Bank bolstered its financial backing of the development
of Brazil's social protection system, with technical support in evaluating the impact of key social
expenditure on poverty, and in sharing international best practice in the design targeted
interventions in labor, health, education, social security and social assistance.
36.    The Bank team worked closely with its counterparts to arrive at a set of priority programs
and a level of budgetary protection that would be feasible given the Government's pressing fiscal
constraints. Further, the adjustment loans from the Bank and the IDB provided the authorities -
especially the newly appointed Advisor to the President on Social Protection - with tangible
instruments with which to face formidable political lobbies eager to protect less essential items in
the federal budget.
37.    The appraisal conducted for the SP SECAL in November 1998 gave the Bank the
information necessary to make additional preparations for more a severe recession in Brazil in
1999. In the course of the year since the negotiation of the first SP SECAL, two social protection
investment operations were prepared and made available to the authorities. The two investment
operations - to support an expansion of the Bolsa Escola and Child Labor Eradication initiatives,
as well as a temporary public employment program modeled after the Trabajar program in
Argentina - have not been formally negotiated. However, the two operations were ready and



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 11 of22
available in mid 1999 for immediate approval and implementation had the economic downturn
been more serious, and could be deployed should there be any unexpected upset in Brazil's
current economic recovery.
38.    As a follow up to the SP SECAL and in preparation for proposed future operations, the
Bank has conducted analytical work on programs in each of the social sectors, with the
cooperation of the Brazilian authorities. This analysis will provide an international comparative
review of social spending and social safety nets, and assess the effectiveness of means testing
methods using Brazil's largest social assistance program LOAS - a cash transfer to the elderly
and the disabled - as a focus. The Bank's analytical work will further assess the targeting and
effectiveness of country's unemployment insurance system; profile the role of the informal
economy in cushioning the impact of economic shocks; and look closely at which groups have
been most affected by economic contractions and expansions in recent years. The findings of
these studies are expected to contribute directly to the objectives of follow up loans in social
protection planned for the next fiscal year.
VII. BORRoWER PERFORMANCE
39.    The Borrower's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal the first
Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan, was highly satisfactory. Although supported
by two large sector adjustment loans from the World Bank and the IDB, most of the reforns
included in the first phase of the Social Protection Strengthening Program were designed and
implemented by the Brazilian authorities with the objective of increasing the efficiency of the
Government's response to the poor and the vulnerable. The most important of the reforms
initiated by the Brazilian authorities, were the measures passed to improve the role of the Federal
government in social sectors largely dominated by the states. Where state programs in the social
sectors - most notably in health and education - failed to target the poor, these reforms
strengthened the role of the Federal government as a force for redistribution of public resources.
40.    Additionally, the Bank's counterparts have taken enormous strides since the approval of
the SP SECAL toward ensuring budgetary allocations for the twenty two protected programs into
fiscal year 2000. The authorities have implemented the institutional measures needed to increase
coordination between the social- ministries, improve public disclosure of progress in the social
sectors, and to foster consensus around an "Agenda Social" between public institutions and the
NGOs to fight poverty and inequality in Brazil.
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
41.    Based on interviews with the Borrower the Bank team and its partners in the IDB, and as
detailed in the paragraphs above, the overall outcome of the operation is considered highly
satisfactory. The analysis of preliminary indicators since the disbursement of the SP SECAL in
Section III of this report concludes that the Government's Social Protection Strengthening
Program is well on track and headed in an appropriate direction.
IX. FUTURE OPERATION
42.    Although second and third SP SECALs were planned as a part of the IMF's package of
support for Brazil, developments since the devaluation of the Real in January 1999 and the
tentative restoration of investor confidence may eliminate the need for special adjustment lending



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 12 of 22
in the immediate future. However, despite the measures taken in 1998 and 1999, Brazil's social
protection system  continues to suffer from  critical structural weaknesses.  Due to he
complications of adjustment lending in the social sectors discussed previously, operations in the
immediate future to strengthen Brazil's social protection system will most likely be deployed as
investment loans.
43.    Future investment loans to support the more ambitious follow  up phase of the
Government's Social Protection Strengthening Program - would support efforts to further reduce
income insecurity for the working poor and those who still are inadequately covered by the social
protection system. A Child Labor Investment Loan arising directly from the SP SECAL and the
parallel loan from the IDB, is being packaged for presentation to the Board this fiscal year.
44.    Although additional loans have not yet been fully defined, the objectives of future
investment operations would be designed to complement those of the IDB's multi-tranche
adjustment loan and would: (a) improve income support for vulnerable households not currently
covered by unemployment insurance - the poor, those just above the poverty line and households
headed by women; (b) increase the effectiveness, adequacy and coverage of federal support
programs to reduce overlaps; (c) refine existing high-cost programs in housing, training, water
and sanitation, with means-testing and better targeting; and (d) improve financial and
performance incentives to achieve greater uniformity in Brazil's social protection system across
the country and at each level of government.
45.    While the need for special preemptive liquidity assistance may have passed, and although
the Bank would be ready to respond to demand for rapid lending to support Brazil's social
protection system, work with the Government on establishing a monitoring and evaluation
structure, and in increasing coverage of basic forms of protection to the informally employed will
continue. The Bank's support is expected to lead to larger investment operations to build the
institutional infrastructure of a 'wider system that will respond rapidly to the needs of poor and
vulnerable during economic downturns, provide effective coverage to unprotected workers,
further the fight against poverty, and contribute to greater equity.
X. LESSONS LEARNED
46.    The main conclusions and principal lessons learned in the implementation of the first
Social Protection Special Sector Adjustrnent Loan, are:
(i) Ownership in Emergency Adjustment Lending. Although financial crises can provide the
opportunity to leverage otherwise difficult reforms, especially in the social sectors, counterpart
ownership of reform programs is critical to effective implementation and rapid disbursal of funds.
The objectives and conditions of the first SP SECAL were largely designed as an extension of
efforts already underway to consolidate Brazil's social safety net. The Bank's willingness to
support a phased program of reforms and its rapid response, have ensured both budgetary
protection for the twenty two core programs and a continuing dialogue on a more ambitious set of
reforms in follow up phases of the program - including interventions targeted at the informal
sector, on which there is less agreement between the Bank and the authorities.
(ii) Effective Political Communication. Any operation involving the social sectors should be
accompanied by a comprehensive and accessible public information campaign. However, it is
not sufficient to simply make information available to the public. Reforming governments and
their partners have an obligation to make their reform rationale understood. In retrospect the



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 13 of22
debate around the selection of the twenty two protected programs in the months since the SP
SECAL was disbursed was helpful in consolidating a clear "Agenda Social" between
Government and the NGO community. However, in interviews with both the Bank team and its
counterparts respondents commented that the nature and objectives of the program should have
been better communicated to avoid delays in implementation.
(iii) Clear "Packaging" of Bank Support. Related to the second lesson learned, the rationale
and extent of the Bank's support should be made clear at entry, not only to the Borrower but also
publicly in the borrowing country. The problems that arose from a lack of understanding of
adjustment lending and confusion as to the use of the disbursed funds have already been
discussed. Given the added difficulties of adjustrnent lending in response to a financial crisis,
many respondents have suggested that it may have been less confusing and more transparent to
have packaged the Bank's and the IDB's participation in the Brazil Rescue Package simply as
emergency liquidity assistance rather than "Social Protection" or "Social Security" loans. Having
said this, it is important to note that the Bank and its partners have, in addition to preempting a
payments crisis, accomplished substantial reforms in both policy areas. In social protection, these
accomplishments include budgetary protection of the twenty two targeted programs, advice on
budgetary tracking, follow up evaluations in each of the social sectors, and analytical work that
will contribute to better delivery of social assistance and u.come support to the working poor.
(iv) Selecting an Appropriate Instrument.  Rather than risk delays and failure in the
achievement of the program's long term aims by locking the client into an overly ambitions
agenda, the Bank team chose to negotiate a medium-term strategy, and to allocate its reform goals
over several single-tranche adjustment operations (STOs).10 The choice of a small STO for the
first SP SECAL over the traditional multiple-tranche allowed the Bank to reward reforms already
taken in the months previous to the crisis, as well as provide incentives for deeper, subsequent
measures. The option of a smaller STO with the promise of future lending provided the Bank
with greater agility in the disbursement of the SP SECAL, and will enhance the institution's
efficiency and leverage in establishing the conditions of the proposed follow up operations,
should demand for these arise. Politically motivated delays in the passage of the IDB's multi-
tranche social protection loan would indicate that the choice of STOs for both the SS SECAL and
the SP SECAL was appropriate given Brazil's difficult political climate. Further, choosing
different lending instruments from that chosen for the IDB's loan will extended the dialogue on
social protection in Brazil over a longer period and allow a better sequencing of lending resources
between the two institutions.
0 A lending vehicle designed by the Bank specifically to protect the integrity of adjustment operations
from significant political shifts in borrowing countries.






ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 15 of22
Part Two: Statistical Tables1
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 6:   Studies Included in Project
Table 7:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:   Bank Resources: Missions
I ISarah A. Menezes (LCSHD) assisted with the preparation of the ICR tables



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 16 of22
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
I                             ~~~~~~~~~~~(V)   (-1)              (V)               (V)        I
Macro Policies                        30O
Sector Policies                                      E00
Financial Objectives                  l              E                IEl
Institutional Development                             00
Physical Objectives                   l1 El                            El
Poverty Reduction                                    El                El                E0
Gender Issues                                                          El Cl
Other Social Objectives             i:                                                   El
Environmental Objectives             El              El                0
Public Sector Management            E:               [1               Cn
Private Sector Development           El              E                 El
Other (specify)                      E               E                 El
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                  Unlikely                   Uncertain
(1)                       (/)                        (v")      I
r                            ~~~~~~~~~~Highly
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactory           Satisfactory                Deficient
(V/)                     (.1)                       ($)       I
Identification                                                El
Preparation Assistance                                         1  
Appraisal                                                     El                         El
Supervision



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 17 of22
Highly
D.  Borrower Performance                           satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                        9               LI                Li
Implementation                                                     i:i
Covenant Compliance                                9                0        
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                                  Hiy
E. Assessment of Outcome                  satisfactory    Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory      unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loanlcredit title                  Purpose                  Year of approval                Status
Preceding operations
NE Basic Health II              Strengthen basic health      1989                        Closed
services in selected low-
income areas
Health Sector Reform            Improve the delivery of care    1996                     Disbursing
under the Unified Health
System (SUS) for the poor.
Disease Surveillance and Control   Improve and strengthen    1998                        Disbursing
Project                         disease Surveillance and
Control System and
contribute to reduce mortality
and morbidity
Following operations
Child Labor Investment Loan     Further efforts against child    2000                    Identified & Appraised
labor



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 18 of22
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                            Date Planned       |          Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                           October 1998               October 1998
F'reparation                                                         October 1998               October 1998
Appraisal                                                            October 1998                October 1998
Negotiations                                                        November 1998              November 1998
Letter of Development Policy                                        December 1998             December 16, 1998
F oard Presentation                                                 December 1998              January 7, 1999
Signing                                                             February 1999               March 9, 1999
Effectiveness                                                        February 1999              March 9, 1999
SIngle Tranche Release                                              February 1999              March 31, 1999
Loan Closing                                                           June 1999                June 30, 1999
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Millions)
FY'99
Appraisal Estimate                                                             252.52
Actual                                                                         252.52
Actual as % of Estimate                                                        100%
Eate of Final Disbursement                                                     March 10, 1999



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 19 of22
Table 5: Project Financing
Actual/Latest Estimate
Source                                Local Costs              Foreign Costs                Total
IBRD/IDA                       ---                        US$252.52 million        US$252.52 million
Cofinancing Institution
Other External Sources         ---                        US$2.2 billion           US$2.2 billion
(Parallel Adjustment Loan from
the IADB)
Domestic Contribution
TOTAL                          ---                        ---                      US$2.452 billion
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Study                    Purpose as Defined at Appraisal               Status         Impact of Study
Social Spending and Safety  International comparative review of social  In progress   Design of future
Nets                     spending and social safety nets                               operations
Targeting and Means      Assessment of the effectiveness of means testing   In progress  Design of future
Testing                   methods using Brazil's largest social assistance             operations
program LOAS
Unemployment Insurance    Assessment of targeting and effectiveness of  In progress    Design of future
in Brazil                Brazil's unemployment insurance system                        operations
Informal Employment and   Profile the role of the informal economy in  In progress    Design of future
Economic Downturns        cushioning the impact of economic shocks                     operations



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 20 of 22
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Covenant   Present                       Description of covenant                     Comments
Type       Status
2.02(b)        5           C          The Borrower to open and maintain in the Central Bank a deposit   In Compliance
account in dollars. All withdrawals from the Loan account to be
deposited in such Deposit account
2.02(c)        5           C         The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be   In Compliance
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to Schedule I of the
Loan Agreement
2.03           5           C         The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999                     In Compliance
2.04           5           C         The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount of two  In Compliance
million five hundred twenty thousand dollars.
2.05           5           C         The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of  Single tranche -
3A of one percent per annum, on the principal part of the loan not  fully disbursed at
withdrawn from time to time                                effectiveness
2.06           5           C         The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan  In Compliance
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
interest period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus 4 (four) percentage
points
3.01           5           C          The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed  In Compliance
action to be taken which would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the First Phase of the Program, or any
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (Note:see
Covenants below)
3.02 (a)(b)(c)    I        C          Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall have the deposit  In Compliance
account audited and fumish to the Bank an audit report, not later
than four months after the Bank request, and all other information
requested
4.01           11          C          Macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent  In Compliance
with the objectives of the Program
Covenants Specific to Social Protection Strengthening in the First Phase, from Schedule III of Loan Agreement
A(i)                Education         Adoption of a program to financial support for non-salary  In Compliance
expenditures directly to schools, known as "Dinheiro na Escola"
(Money to Schools
A(i)                                 Increase of about 40% in the coverage of the Borrower's school    In Compliance
meal program (AlimentaVdoEscolar) by reducing barriers to the
participation of poorer municipalities
B(i)                Health           Adoption of a policy (Piso de Atenqao Bdsica) to resources to the   In Compliance
municipalities for use on ambulatory care, according to a per-
capita formula.
B(ii)                                Adoption and expansion of a program to improve the Borrower's  In Compliance
Farnily Health Program (Programa de Sauide da Familia)
C(i)                Social           Implementation on a pilot basis of the Borrower's program to  In Compliance
Assistance       provide financial support to poor families that keep their children
in primary school (BolsaEscola)
C(ii)                                Extension of the Borrower's program for the eradication of child   In Compliance
labor to new industries and geographical areas in the Borrower's
territory.
D(i)                Labor             Introduction, under certain conditions, of a supplement to  In Compliance
unemployment benefits to formal sector workers who have been
uneimployed for a period of more than 12 months, consisting of up
to three additional payments to be made until the 18" month of
unemployment.
D(ii)                                 Legislation allowing temporary suspension of labor contracts with  In Compliance
the provision of opportunities for retraining of workers



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 21 of22
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                    8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from      9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                    10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds             11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                      allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing    12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                  regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                           13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



ICR, Brazil: Social Protection Special Sector 4djustment Loan
Page 22 of 22
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                            Planned            I          Actual
Project Cycle                                                             .               _      _
Weeks           US$           Weeks           US$
thousands                     thousands
Preparation to Appraisal                           5               43             5.8            43.4
Appraisal-Board                                    12              44             12.5           44.2
Negotiations through Board Approval                7               15             7.3            15.5
Supervision
Completion                                         3               7              3.5            7.5
TOTAL                                            27               109            29.1           III
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                Specialized  Implemen-    Develop-
Stage of        Month/              of      Days in      Staff Skills    tation     ment        Types of
Project Cycle       Year             Persons  Field        Represented    Status    Objectives    Problems
Through Appraisal     Identification    9          6         a, b, c, g                   .
& Preparation
October 1998
Appraisal through     Appraisal   &    I           19        a, b, d, e, g                                     l
Board Approval        Negotiation
November 1999
Supervision                  _                       _            _            _            _
Completion            ICR               1          4         f                 _            _
September 1999
Notes
a. Principal Operations Officer
b. Economist
c. Health Specialist
d. Senior Education Specialist
e. Financial Management Analyst
f Social Protection Specialist
g. Consultants - Social Protection



Appendix A
Page I of 3
BRAZIL - SOCIAL SECURITY SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
& SOCIAL PROTECTION SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ICR MISSION
(September 20 - 24, 1999)
AIDE MEMOIRE
This note summarizes the main findings of the World Bank mission on Social Security and Social
Protection sector adjustment, that visited Brasilia during September 20 - 24, 1999. Due to the
close link between the conditions of the two special sector adjustment loans being evaluated -
both part of the Bank's contribution to the IMF organized Brazil Rescue Package of US$41.5
billion - a single ICR mission was sent to Brasilia. The mission consisted Truman Packard,
Social Protection Specialist (LCSHD), with the support of Joachim Von Amsberg, Senior
Economist, Antonio Magalhaes, Principal Country Officer, and Patricia Bacelar, Team Assistant,
of the Brazil Country Management Unit (LCC5C). The mission would like to thank the
Government of Brazil for the collaboration and support provided.
The objectives of the mission were to:
> Assess progress to date in the implementation of reforms supported by the first Social
Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan (SS SECAL) and the Social Protection Special
Sector Adjustment Loan (SP SECAL);
> Gather information for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) for
both S/SECALs;
The mission's agenda was set with the help of the Brazil County Management Unit. Interviews
were conducted with Authorities at the Ministry of Social Security and Social Assistance (MPAS)
and the Ministry of Planning and Budget (SEAIN).
I. Overall Impressions - Social Security
Based on the comments and observations the mission received during its interviews with
the principal counterparts in the preparation of the loan, the overall progress achieved by the
Government in meeting the long-term objectives of its social security reform program, has been
satisfactory. The Borrower has complied fully with all of the conditions of the loan. The mission
was able to gather information on the impact of reforms supported by the loan, and the progress
in Congress of several key legislative initiatives linked to the loan's conditions.
Progress on the RGPS. As is the case in single-tranche adjustment lending, most of the
objectives of the SS SECAL were met prior to the loan's presentation to the Board. These
included the approval by Congress of the amendment to the 1988 Constitution introducing key
legislative reforms to each branch of the social security system, passage of the General Public
Pensions Law specifically for state and municipal pension plans, and preliminary steps in the
institutional restructuring of INSS. Since the passage of the Constitutional Amendment, the
Administration has taken important legislative steps to implement most of the parametric reforms,
and to prepare for more ambitious structural reforms planned for the second phase. New
parameters for special pension benefits for primary and secondary school teachers, and the
expansion of the contribution base were established by Presidential Decree. A draft Ordinary
Law proposing a new formula for the calculation of pension benefits has been sent to Congress.
Additional packages of draft legislation to expand income tax to include pensions, and to



Appendix A
Page 2 of 3
establish the legal framework. for the private provision of work injury insurance have been
prepared and will be sent to Congress before the end of 1999.
Progress in RJU. Despite the progress made with passage of the Amendment and recently
enacted legislation, the pension regime for civil servants continues to be a mounting burden on
Brazil's public resources. In the RJ-U, the most significant reforms in the first phase were: (i) the
introduction of a minimum age of 53/48 years for men/women at which retirement benefits
commence, gradually increasing to 60/55, and (ii) the progressive increase in the contribution rate
for federal executive branch workers and retirees, not included in the conditions of the SS
SECAL, but approved by Congress in January  1999.   The constitutionality  of the
Administration's January 1999 progressive contribution increase and imposition of contributions
on current beneficiaries, was imrmediately challenged in the courts. On September 30, 1999, the
Supreme Court struck down the measure. Although disappointed by the Court's decision, the
Administration has already responded with plans for a flat increase of Federal RJU contributions
from active civil servants from the current 11% to as much as 14%.
Progress in the SPC. Political consensus in Brazil is gradually moving towards greater reliance
on employer provided, funded plans for old age support in the third pillar, for both workers in the
private as well as in the public sector. While funded pension plans in the Complementary
Pension System (SPC) manage over R$100 billion worth of assets, coverage of funded pension
plans remains low at about 5% of the workforce. This low rate of participation, despite Brazil's
relatively sophisticated capital rnarket, is due to inadequate regulation of the system, and the lack
of tax incentives for retirement savings. Progress in implementing the reforms to the SPC passed
in the Constitutional Amendment, has been the most rapid. With technical and financial support,
from the Bank and the IDB, the Administration has taken steps to encourage the creation of more
complementary funded schemes, including the set of well-designed rules for both private and
government sponsored pension lunds, and plans to consolidate and strengthen supervision.
II. Overall Impressions - Social Protection
Based on the comments and observations the mission received during its interviews with
the principal counterparts and technical staff involved in the preparation of the loan, the overall
progress achieved by the Government in meeting the long-term objectives of its Social Protection
Strengthening Program, has been highly satisfactory. The Borrower has complied fully with all
of the conditions of the loan. The mission was able to gather information on the impact of
reforms supported by the loan, as well as information on federal budgetary allocations to the
twenty two protected programs expected in the next fiscal year.
Continued Budgetary Protection for Essential Programs. In the three years previous to the
1998 crisis, and particularly in the twelve months leading to September 1998, the Government
undertook a series of reforms to consolidate public expenditure for the poor, and to identify a
package of twenty two essential social programs. These twenty two "Protected Programs" have
come to formn the bedrock of federally assisted social protection in Brazil. The Government's
success in maintaining and increasing budget allocations to the protected programs lies in sharp
contrast with cuts across the board in other areas. The revised budget proposal for fiscal year
1999 - submitted in November 1998 - provided greater protection to the social sector ministries
relative to other areas of public spending
New Institutional Infrastructure. The creation of a package of protected programs for special
budgetary consideration is seen as an important institutional innovation in Brazil, that is expected
to increase the efficiency of the country's social safety net. Implementation of the Social
Protection Strengthening Programn has required a new institutional structure to be put in place that
allows greater coordination and monitoring of the twenty two protected programs across the



Appendix A
Page 3 of 3
social ministries and at the different levels of government - federal, state and municipal. The
establishment of this new institutional structure for more efficient delivery of social protection
was a key accomplishment of the Brazilian authorities in the months prior to the crisis.
In executing its Social Protection Strengthening Program, the authorities in Brazil have
established a new internet-based budget tracking system that both increases transparency and
underpins the new cross-ministerial structure for program implementation. A web site has been
set up that publicizes performance targets for the Social Protection Program overall, and provides
the public with progress reports in real time on advances in each of the social sectors. In addition
to increasing transparency, the greater availability of information should ensure the political
sustainability of budgetary protection of the twenty two programs.
Continuing Analytical Work. In addition to the accomplishments discussed above, a substantial
body of analytical and operational work has been conducted in the months since the approval of
the SP SECAL that will form the basis of future Bank support for the strengthening of social
protection in Brazil.. This work - which includes the preparation of two follow-up investment
loans to support the eradication of child labor and temporary work-fare programs for the poor, has
been conducted largely in the context of the Bank's participation in the supervision of theIDB's
adjustment loan, and the monitoring of progress made by the Brazilian authorities
IIH. Next Steps - SS SECAL & SP SECAL ICR Preparation
The mission was successful in obtaining the necessary inputs to complete the ICRs for both
Special Sector Adjustment Loans. The Authorities - the Bank's official counterparts in the
preparation of the Social Security and Social Protection operations at MPAS and SEAIN,
respectively - will prepare their own assessment of the design, preparation and implementation of
each loan (no more than 10 pages), along the guidelines discussed during the mission with Mr.
Vinicius Pinheiro, Secretary for Social Security at MPAS, and Mr. Antonio Gustavo Rodrigues,
Deputy Secretary at SEAIN. Upon returning to Washington, the Bank team will complete the
first drafts of each ICR, which will be shared with the Authorities by end-November 1999.






Appendix B
Summary Translation of Borrower Comments
On the Implementation Completion Report
Abbreviated translation of attached comments from SEAIN in Portuguese - The Borrower
opted to send a previously prepared progress report for a tranche disbursement of the
IDB Social Protection Adjustment Loan, as a contribution to the ICR. Although
implementation progress is discussed in much greater detail, the report's conclusions do
not differ substantially from those of the ICR.
In response to the request for comments on the Implementation Completion Report, the
Secretariat agrees with the points discussed and conclusions of the document. We would
point out only one error - the amount of the (parallel) adjustment loan from the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) is US$2.2 billion, and not US$2 billion as
mentioned in the report (since corrected).
Another point that should be highlighted (which is not mentioned in the ICR) is that the
Brazilian Government has committed to delivering periodic reports on progress of the
twenty two protected programs set aside in the project. This commitment was made in
the contracts signed with the IDB, which are available in the Ministry of Planning and
Budget.
In response to your request for a contribution from the Secretariat to the ICR, please find
the attached report which contains a first implementation evaluation of the program of
reforms developed with the support of the IDB.
Signed,
Mr. Roberto Bastos Carreiro
Chief Coordinator of Evaluation Policy SEAIN



MINISTRPIO DO PIJWEJAMENTO, ORIAMENTO E GESTAO
cretafls de Awuwto. lntiwnecbnais
Fax aZ1IW /9i9r- fIYgd  *inas: 14       (inoluindo esta) 1Brl* 17'  1i2 / 
PARAM?Q                                PIFROM):
HOME    Mr. TRUMAN PACKARD        MO0ME     ROBERTO BASTrOS CARREIRO
-SoCal Protecion Specialist-    cARWO    Coordenador-Gorl d PolltiCas e
I        ~LCSMCD                         -AvaliNa   - SEAIN/MP
LCOBIRD                          00     e1 429 -4292
lAXw         (202 8144  67 j I       A3           00 55 61 225- 4022
ASSUIITO kIvinsntaUon C=nabUo Repou" - Soado pmetW*oq special AudJ*Mt Low (lomn ne 443@aR).
Prezado Mr. Truman,
Refiro-me ao docurnento acima, sobre o qua} solicita os comentirios desta
Secretaria
Sobre o assunto, informo sobre a concordincia desta Secretaria comn os termFos da
minuta do relat6rio cn  apreco, fazendo ressalva ao mrontante do empr6stimno confratado
junto ao BID, no valor de USS 2.2 bilh6es, e nAo de MJSS 2 bilb5cs, conforme ciado no
prefkio.
Outro ponto a ser destacado diz respeito ao compromisso do Govemo brasileiro de
produzir rtlat6rios pe:i6dicos de acompanhwmneto das vinte c duas aVes previstas no
programa. ral comprornisso se prende ao contrato assinado com o BID, eujos relat6rios
Cst*o disponiveis nestc Minist&io.
Atendendo a sua solicitaq4o e corm o objetivo de fornecer subsfdios ao seu
relat6no, cnvio, em anexo, documento desta SEAIN, contendo utna primeira avaiiai&' de
descmpcnho do programa desenvolvido com o apoio do BID.
SCANNED
tenoiosarneCSHD



MV6ST*WO DO PLANEJAMANTO, ORQAMENTO E GESTAO
_Sehotarls de Assuntos intemaclonals
Oficto N.W 4    SEAIN/MP
Em, c2    de novembro 1999
Prezado Senhor,
I.   RefIro-me As 'Condmes especlais pr4vias a todos os desembolsos dos recursos do
Financiamentod, pevistas no Contrato de Empr6stimo NO 1174/OC-BR, relativo ao "Programa de
Reforma e Protego Sociar, Capitulo IIl, Cl6usula 3.03 (b), quo condiciona os desemnboWsos ao
progresso substancW  das medTdas e agnes descritas na Carta de Poiftica do Govemo brasileiro
dirigida ao Presldonte do BID, em 22 de dezembro de I M.
2.   Sobre o assunto. cumpre informar que o Govemo Federal vein envidanido todos os
esforgos para garantir o nhvel de despesas e investimento pbbiico federal em programas
prioritiros na Area sockal; assegurar niveis adequados e mnelhorar a eficicia no prestaQao de
sefvi9os sociais bsicos a grupos do baixa renda, albm de dar continuidade ao processo de
implantaqao e aprofundamento das reformas nos setores da Educaglo, SaCide, TrabeIlho e
Assist6ncia Social.
3.   A organizag&o do Plano Plurianual e dos Orgamentos da Unigo em "Programnase foi um
passo importante do Govemo unmo a transparancia qua pretende inmprimir as sua a86es, ao
prmitir malor controle dos usos dos recursos por parte da socledade.
4-   Nesse contexto, fol concebido o "Avanga Brasil" quo tem por objetivo estimular os 6rg2os
da administraQ&o federal a adotar um novo modelo de atua9ao denominado - Gestao
Empreendedora. 0 objetivo 6 transformar a cultura gerencial de modo a incorporar OS seguintes
atributos principais:
Ao Senhor
JORGE CARLOS ELENA
Representante do Banco Interamericano de Desenvolvimento - B1I
Setor de Embaixadas Nonte, Q. 802,conj. F, Lote 39
Brasilia - DF



2
4.1 OrlentagIo para resultados, tondo como reterincta o cideadb: Atenro gerenclal
voltda para os objetivos finais das agOes de governo, de interesse da socledade, e nAo aponas a
administrao dos mebs envolvidos. Essa postufa tem lmpilcagoes em todas as deciSOes, dead
o estabelocimento do objetiv, metas a a aQbes dos programas at6 a avaliagao de resuftados
final alcangados. A referOncia 6 a satisfag&o do oaAo para quem dove set direcionado o
trabafho da administra9io p0blica.
42 MobilIzaggo do rocursos: Vis2o ampla cda ConjugagOo de recursos e suas Sontes,
dentro e fora da organizago,. para viabilizar os resultados desejados, abrangendo recursos
humanos, fisicos, conhecimentos financeiros e organizacionais, dentre os male importantes. A
orientaro b6sica 6 enoontrar a forrna de gerar o mAximo valor poselvel para a sociedade a patir
desses rrsos
4.3 Parcertas piblicas a pbtlooprlvadas:    Nogdo  de  que  a  mnobilizagao de
recursos depende principalmente da qualidade dos programras o da confiabilikade da gestmo,
atrutos quo viabilizam e mantrm as parcerfas.
4.4 Trnupar6ncia para controle da socledade: ConvicXo de que o controle das asoes
de govemo pela socledade  a foria mais efetive de imputsionar a mudan9a- 0 objetivo 6 deixar
diero para o cidadgo quais problemas o governo quer resolver, que prioridade estd sendo dada e
quanto serA gasto. Desta formrta a sociedade tem como saber e controlar coro es-Mo sendo
aplicados os recursos dos impostos qua paga.
5.    A construgo da nova realidade contemplada no Avan9a Brasil exige um gerenciameento
capaz de promover o processo ide transformag&o da administraoo e a rmoilizaQo de recursos e
esforgos dos diversos parceiros. em sintonia com os anselos da comunidades inediante estfmulo A
mothrado e A cooperagAo a orientagAo para a eficAcia e a eficiOncia das asoes. 0 gerente de
programa deve atuar como empreendedor, reorganizando as despesas p0blicas, para fazer mals
e melhor com as recursos dlsponfvels. Caber6 a cada gerente organizar agoes em vdrias areas,
mobiizar recursos dentro e foraL do Govemo Federal atravAs de parcerias e superar obstaclos
para aingir as metas definidas em seu programa.
6.    Portanto, com essa nova politica de gestio por programa, j6i desenvolvids no PPA 2000,
que so encontra no Congresso hacional para aprovago, o Govemo Federal pretende:
6.1 ampliar a compreensao do papel do gerente dentro das organizagoes, para aumentar
sua responsabilidade e capacidade de gerar resultados;
6.2 dar rnmas agiradade iAs decisOes de administracdo orgamentria e financeira, para
assegurar urn fluxo de recursos compatfvel corm a execuao ffsica dos empreendimentos:
6.3 imprirmin mais capacidade empreendedora dos gerentes e do Mlnisterio do
Planjamoento, Orgamento e Gestdo (MP), responsAvel pela supervisgo do Piano, zelando pola
tuouI:edo doe progrvaco o proJotoc;
6.4 promover a lnteragdo de gerentes para aproveitarnento de oportunidade de parcerias,
em benelicio do desempenho geral do conjunto de prograrnas.
7.    No orgamento federal. o govemo vem imprimindo Igual empenho para o aleance de SeUs
objetivos e cumprimento das metas estabelecidas. Vale destacar que, embora a previsso
orgamentAria de 1999 para as 22 aoes dos Quadro de Programas Protegidos do Programa de
Retorma a ProtegXo Social (Contrato de Empr6stimo N  11741OC-BR) tenha sido fixada em RS
11.365,30 milh6es, a atual dotac'o 6 de R$ 12.461,85 milh8es, ou seia RS 1.096,65 milhoes a
mais do quo o acordado, o qua representa um significativo avanqo, por parte do Governo Federal,
na preservag6o dos investimentos voltados para o5 grupos sociais de baixa renda e na protegao
I.,9



3
de gastos bis1cos em Areas socdais relevantes. Desses R$ 12.461,85 milh8es j& foram realizados
efetivamente, ou seja, gastos peios respectivos Minlst6ros, at6 outubro de 1999, um total de R$
9.009,18 milhOes, conforme demonstrivo constante do Anexo, representando um reafizaXo de
71%, em rela9lo ao montante indicado nas rnetas financoiras do Acordo de Empr6stlmo. Este
nivel de realiza*io financeia, que supers ao montante global provisto iniclalmente para a
proterog  dos gastos socials nas Areas de educa(o, saWde, trabalho e assist6rcia social, dentro
do atual cenArio macroecon6mico do Pals, demonstra claramente a convorgAncia de esforgos a a
deerminavao do Governo em cumprir as diretrizes refletidas na Carta de Potftica.
8.    Pare o ano 2000, a prvisao orgament4ria para os Programas Socials Protegidos que
constam do Projeto de Lei encarninhado ao Congresso 6 de R$ 13.000,98, o quo representa un
crescimento de 14% em rea9ao ao montante referido no Acordo de Empr6stimo, o quo evkdoncia
o compromisso e a determina;ao do governo brasileiro em, ngo somante cumppr as metas
contraWtalmete acordadas, mas, principalmeente, dar continuldade A sua politica social quo n4o so
restinge ao conjurnto de programas selecionados na  operag6o de cr6di corntratada junto ao
BID.
9.   Nesse conte4o, vale ressaltar o desempenho dos programas desenvolvidos no Ambito doe
MWnist6los da Educagao (MEC), da Saude(MS) , do Trabalho a Emprego(MTE) e do Minist6rio de
Previdncia e AssistOncia Social(MPAS) no sentido de medhorar a ficiOtneia no uso dos recursos
o acelerar o processo de descentraliza.ao  dos gastos socials brasileiro,  melhorando a
qualidade e aumentando o impacto redistributivo dos mesmos, al6m de criw mecanismos para
molhorar a tocaiizagAo dos programas socsais, de modo a atingir as Areas mals carentes do pals.
EDUCACAO
Ensino Fundamental
10.   0 MinistSrio da EducagAo tem apresentado avanios significativos no setor de ensino
fundamentaL Programas como o Fundo de Manutengao e DesenvoMmento do Ensino
Fundamental e de ValorizaXo do Magist6rio (FUNDEF) e o Programa de Garantia do Renda
1Mtnima tim contribuldo para o ingtesso e a perman6ncia das crianmas entre 7 e 14 anos de idade
nas emacas.
II.   0 MEC vem dando 6nfase e estimulando a participaqgo social em todos seus programas,
que contam, obrigatoriamente, com a acompanhamento de um Conselho Escolar ou um Conselho
Municipal, formado por representantes da sociedade eivi, dos sindicatos, das escolas, dos
profossores e do poder executivo municipal, o que confere maior transpar@ncia a malor controle
das agbes e aplicaQ&o dos recursos do Govemo no setor. 0 funcionamento destes conselhos 6
condi$o sine-qua-non para que as escolas ptiibcas ou prefeituras municipais recebarn recursos
do Mlnlst6rio da Educacgo dos diversos programas. Outra fonna de contrale social 6 a parecewl
quo esti sendo firmada no Atnbito do Programa Naclonal de AlimentagRo Escolar, corn os
Tribunais de Contas dos Estados. A prestagao de Contas 6 fels pelos munidplos diretamente aos
Tribunas de Contas Estaduais, que per sua vez, quando verificada aiguma iregularidads, alem
des provid6ncias nonnals, informa ao Minist6rio da EducaXo ou mesmo diretamente ao Ministrlo
POblico, quando for a caso.
12.  Como ponto basilar das politicas desenvolvidas pelo MEC para o ensino fundamentat estA
o Sistema Nacional de Avalia9ao cia Educagdo B6sica(SAEB), Implantado em 1990, e qus conta
com a partlcipag&o e o apoio das S@cretarias Estaduais e Municipals de Educa;ao das 27
Unidades da FederagAo.   A anAlise dos resultados dos levantamentos do SAEB permits
acompanhar a evoIuoo do desempenho dos alunos e dos diversos fatores incidentes na
qualidade e na efetividade do ensino ministrado nas escolas, possibilitando a defini$fo de aQ8es
voltadas para a corregao das distorg6es identificadas a o aperfel9oamento das prAticas e dos



4
resultados apresentados petas escolas e pelo sistema de ansino brasileiro. Essa IntormaXes
sl utilizadas por gestores e administradores da .ducagao, pesquisadores e professores.
Ensino M6dlo
13-   Como parte de umr pciftica rnais ampla de desenvolvimento socai- tendo em vista uma
demanda crescerne par ensino m6dio, constltulda significativamente por alunos proverientes dos
extratos menos prileglados, o MEC deu inildo ao processo de reforma legal e curcular do
Enshno MWdlo, promovendo a separag5o entre a educa9o voKtada para a formaoo geral e a
voltada para a formagao prollsslonal.
14.  Ao Institr um novo curr(culo parm o Ensino M6dio, o MEC pretends colocar em presenga
*stes dois fatores: as mudangas estruturais quo decorrem  da chamada wrevolugao do
conheciment, alterando a modo de organizagao do trabalho e as relag*es socials; e a expansAo
crescente da rode pdb4lca, quo deverd atender a padrOes de qualidade que se coadunerm com as
exigOncias desta sociedade.
15.  Neese quadra de profundas e recentes mudan9as, destaca-se a implamonta5o do
-programa oe meinona e ExpAnsaco ensino  MeclO - Projeto Escola JovOm/t1 FasO', recOm
negocido junto ao Banco Interamerlcano de Desenvommento (BID), com um custo total de USS
600 mithOes. sendo US$ 250 milhoes financiado polo BID. Seu objetivo Ceral 6 apoiar a
lmplementa5o da reforma curricular e a expansao do atendimento no ensino m6dio pelas
Unidades Federadas de todo o Pals, visando a melhoria de sua qualdade e a ampliagAo de seu
grau de cotura, como forma de garantir maior eoqUiade social. Urna segunda lase deste
programa, de Igual valor, j6 est6 programada para oontrstagXo junto dquele Banco, tao logo seja
conclulda a primeira fase.
Educagfo Proflsslonalizante
16.  0 MEC desenvolve, em parceria com o Mlnist4ro do Trabalho e Emprego(MTE). o
"Programs de ExpansAo da Educag&o Profiseional (PROEPY' que visa a consolidar a reforma do
ensino t6cnfco com a implantasgio de um modelo de formaglo profissional mals adequado &
realidade brasleira. Para isso. srSao desenvolvidas ages integradoras das diforentes formas de
educgao com o tabeho, a cinc1a e a tecnologia, pretendendo-se, assim, a ampliagao e a
divrsidade da oferta de cursos.  Os recursos do PROEP, no total do USS 500 mihOes, SAO
orlglArios de dota90s orgamentArias do Govemo Federal, sendo 256% recurs  do MEC, 25%
recursos do Fundo de Amparo ao Trabalhador - FAT/MTE e os 50% restantes advOm de
ernprfstfmo do Banco Interamericano de Desenvolvimnento(BID).
17.  A refoirna do ensino profissional visa: a) meihorar as condiges do empregabilidade do
jovemn brasileiro; b) elevar o padirAo da qualidade de vidia da populagAo atrav6s de prograMnas
permanentes de qualificagdo e requalificag&o do trabalhador; e c) contribuir pars a elevag&o da
produtividade das empresas nacionals.



S
Programas Protegidos
18. Corn rela9Io aos -Prograrnas Protegidos", o MEC J3 realizou mais de 70% das metas
tinenceiras estabelecidas no Contrato NO 11 7410C-BR, o quo confirma o empenho daquele
MInist6rio no cumptimento das metas acordadas. Igualmente, destacam-se Os grands avangos
obervados na implementsao das seguintes agnes:
18.1 Programa de DsorlbulgSo de Uvrow ld6dlcos(PNLD) - 0 PNLD est curnprindo o
cronograma de aquisil0es dentro do planejado. A maioria dos livros ,d fot adqulrida e serL
distnbulda a partir de dezemnbro(99. Para o ano 2000, o PNLD apresenta grandes mudangas,
corno o reaproveitamento do liwo didtfico distribuldo. Para tanto, foram devenovvdas algumas
aQoes:
a) Campanha publlciria de conscientizaglo da preserva$lo dos Evros;
b) Contrtsao do Instituto de Pesquisa Tecnol6gice da USP (IPI) para avaliaAo
da qualidade de material e de impressAo dois livros junto &s edtoras fomececloras;
c) Negociag6es comn os fornecedores sobre a questAo da qualade; e
d) Mlhoria na qualkiade das embalagens utilizadas para transports do material at&
a osoolas.
18.1.1 Alni desses aspectos, toda a loglstica, no quo so refere A distribuigao o
armazenagem. tem sido modificada, al6m do processo de esoIha dos tftuls a serem
adquiridos Em 1998, para o processamnento de todos os formulArios envisdos As escolas par a
escoha dos rivros foram consumidos 4 (quatro) meses, apenas na digitag&o. Em 1999, con o
uso de leitura btica de c6digo de barras, foram necessMros apenas 10 (dez) dlas Este ganho de
produtlvkde ao longo de todo o processo reduzlu o custo e perrnltiu a aquslso do todos os
iws previstos sem suplementaglo orgamentra, aposar dos repetidos aumentos de custOs
com mat6ria-prlma (papel em especial) ao longo do ano de 199, custos estes quo sao, em sua
quase totalidads, vinculados a cotaIo do d6lar.
18.2 Programs de ComplementaqAo dos Recursos do Fundo de Desenvolvimento do
ftsino Fundamental o Valorizaq8o do magist6rio(FUNDEF) - 0 FUNDEF, por se constituir em
mecanismo qua assegura o direlto universal so ensino e uma justa remunorasgo aos educadores.
visto que cria medidas de equalizac$o fiscal que busca a corrsXo- dos assustadores Indices de
desigusidades regionals, se constitui em umr dos mais Importantes programas do Minist6ri da
EducagIo, em termos de modificagdo da estrutura de financiamento da educagRo fundamentai
deste pais. A filosofla de funcionamento do FUNDEF propicia aos munkilpios mais carentes a
melhoria da aplicaQ&o de recursos na educagAo, lArm do controle por parts da sociedade civil,
por intern6dio dos Conselhos Municipais.
SAODE
19. Como parte de sua polItica de investimento no setor de sadde, al6rn do programa de
"Reforma do Setor Saude RecuperagAo e Capacita9Ao Assistencil do SUS-REFORSUS' e
"Sistema de VigilAncia em SaNde-VIGISUS", ambos em fase de implementagAo, o Govemo esta
em processo de negociagdo corn o BID de um novo contrato para financiamento do *Projeto de
Profissionalizaiao de Trabalhadores da Area de Entermagem", com um custos total US$ 370
rnilhoes. Significativos avangos tamb4m ocorreram este  ano em  decorroncia da consolida5ao
do processo de descentralizagao dos servigos e acies, qua capacita o Sistema Unico de Sade



6
para responder 6s necMsidaedw da populagdo. A descentralizaigo ampilou o acesso da
popula&g0 aos sernigos de saiMe e aumentou a cobertura assistencial, em especial nas areas de
baia renda onde a derta 6 escassa.
Programas Protegidos
20.   Com relagao aos 'Prrogramas Protegidos", a Minist6rio da Sadde JL realizou mais de
70% das metas financeiras establcidas no Contrato Ng II 74/0C-BR, conforme obswva-se a
segulr
20.1 P18o do Aten9il B6sIca(PAB) - A implantaQ&o do PAB foi um passo decisivo na
con8olidago desse proc3sso, urna vez quo transtere para os municfplos brasileiros a
responsabilidade da gesAo dat atenggo bdsica. 0 PAB 6 composto de uma parte ffxa, destinada &
pslswAncia hAxima, & de umat parte varidvol, rolstlva aoo ineontos pars do"onvolvdmonto do
agOfes no campo da Viglitncia SanitAria. VigilAncia Epidemiot6gica e Amblental, dga Assist4na
Farmac&uca Basica, dos Agentes ComunitMrios de SafCide, da Satide da Familla, do Combate As
C;ar6nclas Nutricionsis e outras quo venham ser posteriormonte agregadas. Atualmente, o PAIB
encontra-se implantado em 5.326 municipios brasileiros, correspondendo a 96,7% do total, onde
hebitam mais 161,0 miIhtes de pessoas.. Em dezembro/98, eram atendidos 5.136 muniocplos e
uma popuaglio de aproximadamente 145,0 milh8es de habitantes.
-202 Programa do &%Ode de Famflh(PSF) - A descentralizag&o ptioriza a saude
preventa, com enfase no atendimerito besico, sobretudo mediante a expans&o do PSF, o quat 6
caracterizado como ume porte de entrada aos serVigos de saNde do municiplo. 0 PSF atua com
enfoque comunitArlo e de eduoag&o para a saaide, sendo o primeiro contato desses servos com
a populag&o. Deede sua criag&o o PSF id formou 4A05 equlpes, as quais atendern a umsa
populago de mais de 15.0 rnllh6tes de beneficiArios em 1.693 municpias. 86 no ano de 1999
foraum fornmadas 1258 equipes e atendidos 576 munUpios.
20.3 Programs do Agentes Comunitirlos(PACS) - 0 PACs. juntamente com o PSF,
busca a valorizaro da famflia e da comunidade e sua parficipagao ativa na prevengao de
doongas e na preveng3o da saude, por meio de informagoes e orientagOes sobre cuidados de
sa2de. Hole id 4tio 105.485 aigentes atuando e beneficiando urna populagdo de mais de 60,0
milh6es de brasileiros em 3.888 munic(pios. Em dezembro/98, esses nrumeros correspondiam a
88.961 agentes. 51,0 mllh6es de p8ssoas beneficiadas e 3.541 municipios.
20.4  Programs Nacional de munlizag*o (PNI) - Evitar doengas, mediante agOes de
vacinago, e uma das principals prAticas preventvas. 0 PNI traz em seus objetivos ampliar a
cobertura da vacinageo de rotina de 70% para 96% das criangas menores de 1 ano. Pars tanto 4
mobilizada a comunidade  asra a vacinsaAo contra dfftewia. coqualuche, Wtano, sararpo,
tuber;utose e pollomiellte.
20.4-1 Com a campanha nacional de vacinagAo, reaNizada em agosto de 1 999, o
programa jA utrepassou 16,0 rnilhOes de crianqas e gestantes vacinadas, recebendo mais de 25,6
mlh118es de doses de vacina Peflo, Trfplice OPT, de Sarampo e BCG, [ndice superior ao projetado
no"Programa de Reforma e Prcteoo SoetaP'.
20.5 Programa de Coombate As Carinclas Nutricionsis(PCCN) - Corn vistas a reduzir as
doengas a a mronalidade materna e infantil o PCCN toi reformulado. passando a integrar a Parte
Variivel do PAS, o que possibilita o repasse oe recursos diretamente aos fundos municipais de
saOde, evitando assim, as dcticuldades encontradas na efetivagAo de convfnlo. JA estAo
qualificados no PCCN 4.472 municipios, bensficiando 831.260 pessoas. Somente em 1999, foram



7
qualtficados 1.376 municipios, beneftcando 455.948 peswas, au seja, nesbe ano a quantidade de
benefieiiios mais quo dupticou.
20.8 Programa de AsslstMncia Farmacbutica Bisica - Outro programa teformulado em
1999 fol o AsIstbncia Farmsz6utica Bgsica, quo passou a ser descentralizado por moio de
repasso de valores financeiros aos municipios pars aqulsig5o dos medicamentos buascos
neoossaios, ao inv6s da distribuig$o de kits de medicamentos.iniciado neste exercio, conta
atualmente corn 5,352 munlcfpios qualificados (97,2%), quo representa uma cobertura
populacional de mais de 161,0 mrihOes de pessoas ou de 98,4% da popula$o.
20.7 Programa de AtenQlo Integral a Satide da Mulher- No quo tang. speeaimrents A
auOde da mnulher, 0 foco esti concentrado no escarecimento dos necessidades de detecoo do
cAncer de colo do utero, utilizando o exame de Papanicolau, ticnicas de planesamento familiar,
incentivo ao parto natural, tratumento diferenciado para gestantes de alto risco e abes
especifleas para reduzir a incid6ncia de doensas sexualmente transmtssivels em mulheres. Atb o
momento ji foram realizados 5.825.148 exames e espers-se atingir mais de 7,0 miIhres at a final
deste ano.
ASSSTtNCIA SOCIAL
Programas Protegidos
21.   Com relahIo aos 'PFogram.s Pfotegidos", o Ministerlo da Assistancia e PreVidncia
Soclal(MPAS) j6 realizou cerca de 90% das metas financeiras estabelecddas no Contrato N
1 17410C-BR, com destaque pars o programs "Apoio a Erradicaio do Traoalho Infantil e Juvenir.
cujo resuitado ultrapassa significativamente o estipulado naquela operago de cridito.
22.  Pars o alcance das metas flsico-frianceiras acordadas com o BID, a cria$o da Rede de
ProteqAo Social(RPS) foi o principal avango pars a area de Assistncla Social, uma ve2 quo as
principais agdes gerenciadas pela Secretaria de Estado de Assist6ncia Soial(SEAS) estlo
inserldas na RPS, e par esta raziao, n&o encontram problemas quanto ao fluxo de recursos
oramentrios e financeiros. Destaca-se, abaixo, o progresso das seguintes agems:
22.1 Apolo a criangas carentes - 0 programa de apoio a cnangas carentes consisto em
ag6ts voltadas ao astendimento de criangas de 0 a 6 anos prestado em Creches e pr*escolss, de
forma descentralizada em estretta relario com Estados, Municipios, entidades a arganizagdes de
asuistsncia social. Este atendimento nio so roduz a mera guarda de crisngas. A rofer6ncia
principal e o desenvolvimento integral e integrado da crianga, estruturado a fim de contrlbuir pars
o desenvoMmonto fisico, psiquico, cognitiva e social. A gestio do programa se di de formas
descentralizada e particpativa, mediante ag6es partlihadas entre os 3 niveis de govemo e
entidades e organizag6es de assistAncis social ngo govemamentais, quo so constituem na rede
de pnoo social a criansas de 0 a 6 anos.
22.1.1 As metas f[sices pactuadas no contexto do Contrato do Empr6stimo vbm
mantendo regularidado na execuio, com previsoes de alcance em sua totalidade at6 O final do
exercicio.
22.2 Programa de Erradicagao do Trabalho Infantil(PETI) - 0 Programa. idealizado
dentro de uma concopgio de gestdo intergovernamental, de cartter intersetorial, envolvendo em
odas as etapas a participa8foi da sociedade civil, tem por objetivo geral apoiar a fomentar
-.,   .,c.,



8
iniciativas govemarmentais em Areas rurals de risco social, no processo de erradlcag5o do trabalho
i,tfantil.
22.2.1 No paniodo, foram constatados avanps significativos, tais como, rotirada de
txdas as csian9as inscrtas do trabaiho lnsalubre o degradante, lnser;Ao de todas as cnfiangs na
escola, al6m de um controle social efetivo, tendo em vista as ComJsso6s de Erradicapo do
T'rabaIlo Infantil Estaduals e Municipais com representantes de Organlza6es Governamentais e
da Soctsdade Civi Organizsda.
22.3 Apoio a Portadoros do Deficieneia e sums familias - Verificou-se urn avanio no
processo do descentralizagio des a66es, nas trbs esferas de govemo, com iniciativQs caada vez
mris expressivas, de incusoio deste segmento social nas poifticas municipais. A Secretans de
AsslstArinca Social(SEAS) incrementou suas ag6es de capacitagao, monitoramento e apoio
tMcnico a Estados o Municipios pars estruturagio do sistoma pCiblico de sssistinciQ social e
idlntificagio de mecanismos e estratlgias para assegurar a intoruetorialidado e
ornplementaridada dos Serviqos de A0io Continuada(SAC), financiados com recursos do Fundo
Nwconal de Asastsncis Social(FNAS), destinados A ateni o da pessoa portadora de deficlncia;
22.3.1 A SEAS, tarnb6m, estd proporcionando apolo financeiro a propostas de
revitafiza;do e modemizagAo dos servi9os prestedos pot entidades quo atmndcnm a pessoa
portadora de deftciencia, financiadcs com recursos do FNAS, na perspsaiva de intograoao destes
A rede municipal de servi9os sociais b*sicos, dlsponrveis aos demais cidadAos.
22.4 Apoai a Possoas Idoaas - 0 programa de Atengfo A Pessoa Idosa, quo tem como
otqetivo a defesa e a garantia de direitos do idoso e sua integrag8o na famfiia e na comunidade,
uFpsentou significativos avengos no campo da gest5o, onde as ape5s foram deoenvoMdas de
forma descentralizada e compartilihada buscando a co-responsabilidade das trts esferas de
gcvremo tanto no financiamento quanto na orientaf o e exscugo t6cnice.
22.4.1 Foram realizados seminarios e f6runs regionais corn o objetivo de fortalecer
as. ag6es, bem  como, a conscientizapio da popula9*o para a necossidade de serem
implementadas a;ses piiblicss e prvadas para o envelhecimento sauddvol.
22.4.2 No quo se refere as a;6es previstas no Programa Rede de ProteXo Social,
para o primeiro semestre de 1999, as metas foram plenamente atingidas.
22.5 Assist6ncia Integral a Crianga a ao Adolescente - A SEAS, atrav6s de ampla
mcibdiza9io e do constftui9io do umna redo de parcerias corn instituig6es estadu2is, municipais e
orlanizagOes ngo-govemamentais, vem desenvolvendo programas, voftados pare criangas a
adolescentes, quo tAm  como fun9io responder polas demandas por padraes minimos do
quiilidade de vida, indispensiivis A preservagao dos principios da cidadania, Com a perspectiva
de cunmrir as metas fisklas a finaneeiras estabelecidas, relacionamos os tras programas, a seguir
a) 0 Projoto Cunhimtri & Curumim, executado em parceria com o Govemo do
Arnazonas, possibilltou ums a;Sc integrada no combate a exploragAo sexual e comercial contra
cfimSnls a adolescentes.
A execuo 6 sistematicamrnente acompanhada por uma equipe multidiscplipnar
cornposta por t6cnicos e educadores, em parceria com a Universidade do Amazonas. Ressalte-se
que 33 municipios jA foram atendidos, em Gestao Estadual.
b) A Rede de Abrigo, criada como medida de proteqo social para criangas e
joutns excluldos e desprotegiaos dos seus direitos, 6 caracterizada como efetiva residOncia qua
deNe assegurar o born de6envovirmento da personalidade.
C Programn busca desenvolvimento de atividades em regime de co-educa6o;
nhc desmembramento de grupos de irm*os; evitar, sempre que possivel, a transferAncia para



9
outras entidades de crianqas e adolescentes abtigados; partcipagio na vida da comunidade locaI
proparBASo gradativa pare a deslgarnwnto; partcipaso de peusoas da comunidads no processo
oducaio.
c) 0 Programs Brasil Crianqa Cidadi dosnnvolv*u-se com maior rapidez no
segundo semestre de 1999. tendo em vista o Processo de selegio dos projetos efetuados a parir
do n*s de junho.
22.6 Beneflolo do Presfta9o Continuada (Bonoficios Assistencials a Possoas idoas e
a Portadores de Delfclenclas) - 0 Beneficio de PrestapIo Continued., operacionalizado pelo
INSS, e a concessfio do um salArio minimo menseal ao idoso e A possos portadora de defIci&icna
quo comprove n3o possuir condig6es pare sua manutenglo. 0 processo de concessAo mereceu
na sua trajet6ria um aperteiroamento t6cnico-operacional que culminou corn urns proposta do
revnsio cojunta INSS e SEAS, para o segundo semesWg9, a quai brA asim da Avalaglo
Midico-Pericial, a Aveliagpo Sciai que estA sob a responsabilidade da SEAS.
22.6.1 A prspectvia no desempenho fisico - financeiro & de quo as metas inicialmente
previstas sejam superadas aet o final do ano.
TRABALHO
Programas Protegidos
23.  0 Minist6do do Trabalho e Emnpgo(MTE), id realizou cerca de 70%   das  metas
rinanceiras astabelecidas no Contrato N" 1174I0C-ER, parm os Programas Protegidos, corn
deslaque pars o programa 'Quallfica;lo Profissional(PLANFOR)",  cujos resultados id
ultrapassam os 90% estipulados naquela operaglo de crAdito.
24 0 Programa Naclonal de QuatiflCagAo do Trabalhador (PLANFOR), fin9nciado con
recursos do FAT, so constitui em um dos projetos prioitrlos do Governo Federal, motivo polo
qual fol destacado no 'Prograrma BrasU em AgJo". Implementado a partir de 1998, tenm por
objotvo construir, gradativamente, ofbrta de educag6o profissional permanente, com foco na
demanda do mercado de trabalho, de modo a qualificar ou requalificar, a cada ano, rticulado A
capacidade e compet6ncia existente nessa area, pelo menos 20%    da Populago
Economicamente Ativa(PEA), quo soma hoje, no Brasil, 71 mtihOes de trabathadores nos setores
formal e informal.
25.  0 PLANFOR postula crescents integra9o com outros programas e projetos financiados
Polo FAT, em especial os do seguro desemprego, Intermediaglo de mrAo-de-obra e cr*dito
popular, visando contibuir para o. aumento da probilidade de obtenglo de trabatho e de
goragAo ou elevagdo de renda, o aumento da probabilidade de perrnanfncia no morceado do
trabalho e a sleova9o da produtividade, da competitividade a da renda.
25. Au longo dos seus quase quatro anos de execuq.io, o programe logrou o &xito de apilcar
recursos no valor cle mats de RS I bilhao e capascitar 5,7 milhOes de treinandos, garuntindo a
oferta, em grande escala, doe programas de habilidedes bAsicas, especificas e de gestAo. Para
1999, a previsAo de execugAo A de RS 312 milh6es e treinar 1,7 mithio de trabalhadores. Os
dados acumulados atb este momento indicam quo os programas e projetos vem caminhando no
ritmo e Padr3o desejados, nAo raro superando expectativas, em termos quantitativos a
qualitativos.



IO
28.1 0 empenho do MT'E na implementaC&o e na melhoria de seus pramas rim
patents na conslft o de diversos Instrumentos legals com  o objetivo de desenvolver.
supev1sionar e consokdar o trabaiho de avaiiag&o dos programas de qualificagio prodis5ional e
de poiftioas de rendo e mprego do Milnist6rlo.
27.   Olante do exposto, concful-se que o Governo Federal vem garantindo efetivamente 0
nfve de despesas e invesffmento publico federal em programas prioritrios na Area social,
buscando nio s6 ateder a demanda regular, mas, principalmente, aurnentar a oferta de seigQos
socbis bAsicos voltados psra gnrpos e Areas mais carentes, proporclonando adequade protpo&
socia para tals segmentos. Sorne-se a isto, o reflexo posithvo da ag6o coordenada do Programa
Rede de Proteoo Social, que ven disseminando um processo de controle e acompanhamento
de gastos da mAquina do governo, de modo a lmprimir maior controls dos gastos p3bUlcos.
e C~m
M!ARIO VILALVA
-Se'retArlo de Assuntos Intemacionals



IBRD 20444R
70  (VENEZUELA                                                                           ..... ...EICH "~  '
(           S. !SURINAMEUA 5$
CO  LOMB  I A,/                        Boais/
aocaPt~
& .>vpv7~    N  a  R     T      HA:7A01T
(oP7~oy   '7    ~              '4            /~-,.oi~W                                                             A    A       Tf
N,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J'oo,     
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  7Stlz
9   0             /~~~~ A  7
"Iwo                                4    2  VA      P    A      "       ARP~~~~~~~ ~~~NHOR         F ~7/A*77,  Co b A
0                                                                                 ,/Teresina1cLA/7A  / /~~~~~~~~~~~~~($(  07~i
~~ RtBronco                                              7-f                 - ~~C T  ESoFeeral               Z
Cuia66 ~~~                 District.'li
BRASILIALft-r
2   ~~~~~~~~~~~1                        'A~~~~~~~ 3 na
BOLIVIA  '-.                    Ocionoic                       0Ar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~61.Ot- OY
M, A'r Oi6-bg  I N A.   C ER   ~SL
/7 77 V / F / C           /                      ~~~~~~~C.,.oGrande  (79Bea                    4P1ItSAt
%                                       DO~~~~~~' .SUL  S Jsdottor                                    j (        & I
woE/A'   *'~~~~*~ r'%                '~~'~N              SA(  PAUL        O.O               tP
\PARAG   AY                                      _Rpo       DEi A
Sat, Pdlo.   77oo t(3Rodjnw
-,          'N~~~~~~~~~~~PA4,AJ
Ponio G-osc  j?roro
BRAZIL                     A RG  EN  T  itN A    A7071                        Ao
AMERICA         7777707777<77 ,\                                  ProIre-7Yt.onl                                     IptdTss
/7,  777                                 U'.  B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~og, Al
0         777.77777.7                      U~~RUGUAY                                                    irsS-
AUGUST 1989g



