Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7281 BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$252,520,000
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
December 16, 1998
Human Development Department
Brazil Country Managing Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Reais
US$1.0 = R$1.078 average for 1997
US$1.0 = R$1.127 1st quarter 1998
US$1.0 = R$1.148 2nd quarter 1998
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
Abbreviation  Meaning
AIH           System of hospital reimbursement (Autoriza,co de Interna9ao
Hospitalar)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy Paper
FAT           Worker's Protective Fund (Fundo de Amparo ao Trabalhador)
FGTS          Employee's Severance Fund
FUNDEF       National Education Development and Maintenance Fund
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IBGE          Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics
LIBOR        London Interbank Offer Rate
MEC          Ministry of Education and Culture
MS           Minimum Salary (R$130)
NGO           Nongovemment Organization
PAB          Floor on assistance for ambulatory health care to municipalities (Piso de
Aten,co Basico)
PMDE          Maintenance and Development of Schools Program: provides a floor on
per-student primary school expenditures
PME           Monthly Employment Survey (Pesquisa Mensal de Emprego)
PNAD         National Household Survey (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de
Domicilios)
PSF           Family Health Program (Programa de Saude da Familia)
PLANFOR    Labor Ministry training programs
S/SECAL      Special Sector Adjustment Loan
SPA/MPO       Secretariat for Planning and Evaluation
SUS          Unified Health System (Sistema Unico da Saude)
Vice President                      Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director                    Mr. Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager                      Mr. Xavier Coll
Lead Economist                      Mr. Suman Bery
Task Manager                        Mr. Charles C. Griffin



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:         Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount and Terms: S/SECAL:
US$252,520,000 - 6-month US$ LIBOR plus 400 basis points,
reset semiannually, a one percent front end fee to be financed out
of the loan, and a 75 basis points commitment charge, without
waivers. The loan will have special terms: 5-year maturity,
including 3 years of grace.
Description:      The proposed loan would be the first in a program of two
S/SECALs in support of Brazil's Social Protection Program during
the expected period of increased fiscal austerity. This first loan
would support the Government's program of protected social
expenditures developed and agreed to in October/November of
1998. Following a review of selected social protection programs
to be conducted with the Government, a second, larger S/SECAL
would likely be presented for Board consideration in FY00. That
loan will support further preservation of the social protection
expenditures in the 2000 and 2001 budgets as well as anticipated
changes to improve the coverage, efficiency, and targeting of the
social protection expenditures.
Benefits and Risks: The primary beneficiaries of this loan are Brazil's poor and
vulnerable - children in poor families, retired and disabled people
in poor families, families needing regular access to free or low-cost
basic health services, children attending public primary schools,
and adults who may experience bouts of unemployment during a
period of economic uncertainty.
This loan is part of the broader support program of sector
adjustment loans for Brazil. The overall package is designed to
protect the poor by (a) in the short term preventing a disorderly
macroeconomic adjustment for the Brazilian economy, which
recent Asian experience has shown could quickly reverse the gains
the poor have made in Brazil in the past five years and (b)
improving the fiscal position of the federal government (and its
ability to finance high priority social programs) through the Social
Security and Administrative reforms.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



The Social Protection loan is designed to facilitate the
Government's protection of those social expenditures that are
targeted to the poor and to groups likely to suffer from increased
economic insecurity during the next 12-18 months. Moreover, The
Government and the multilateral banks will review a subset of
these programs over the next 8 months to develop options to
strengthen the social protection system further.
The expenditures to be protected as conditions of this loan have
already been agreed among the Government, the Bank, and the
IDB. However, there is some risk that the budget eventually
emerging from Congress may be different from the Government's
proposal. While the likelihood of this outcome is small, if it
happens, it may result in an increase rather than a decrease in
spending for these protected programs. The Executive branch also
has the power to shift expenditures within certain limits later in the
year, and it has proven its commitment to these programs during
the last several years and during the revision of the August budget
submission that was finished in early November.
There is also the risk that the protected expenditures will not
actually be implemented as agreed. However, this risk is mitigated
by (a) agreement on special arrangements that will be made to
monitor and enforce expenditure targets for the protected programs
and (b) the IDB's tranched social protection loan will be linked to
the same protected programs. Two-thirds of the IDB's US$2
billion loan is tied to achieving the agreed expenditure targets.
Bank staff will participate in the supervision of the IDB loan, just
as both institutions jointly appraised this S/SECAL with the larger
IDB loan. The IDB will also collaborate with the Bank on the
follow-up loan to maintain continuity.
There is a further risk that the programs selected for protection
may not be fully effective. This issue will be addressed both
through physical targets to be monitored under the IDB loan and
through the agreed evaluations of some of the programs.
Poverty Category:  Program of Targeted Interventions
Disbursements:    One tranche to be disbursed after effectiveness. All conditions
were met before Board presentation.
Project Identification No.: 63351



FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
LOAN'
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. OVERVIEW  ...........................................................3
II. SOCIAL PROTECTION  ISSUES ...........................................................8
A.  Poverty ..........................................................8
Poverty Impact of the Crisis ....................9.......................................9
B.  Social Sector Finance ...........................................................                  13
C.  Recent Innovations Strengthening the Social Protection System ...................... 15
D. The Social Protection System - A Monitorable Program of Protected Social
Expenditures ..........................................................                                17
E.  General Social Expenditures and the Protected Social Programs ...................... 21
III. BANK  ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ..........................................................                  26
A.  Bank Assistance in the Social Sectors and Social Protection ............................ 26
B.  Coordination with Multilateral Institutions ....................................................... 27
IV. THE PROPOSED  LOAN ..........................................................                        29
A.  Loan Objectives and Description ..........................................................        29
The Loan Package ...........................................................                     29
B. Policy Actions Taken Prior To Board Presentation to Protect Critical Programs
During Adjustment ........................................................                            31
C.  The Second Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan ...........                    ............ 32
D.  Disbursement, Monitoring, and Auditing ........................................................ 34
E.  Impact, Benefits, and Risks ..................                ...................................... 35
IV. RECOMMENDATION ..........................................................                            36
The appraisal team consisted of Charles Griffin and Patricio Millan (overall loan package), Joachim Von
Amsberg (poverty, social assistance, and labor), Hernan Montenegro and Varun Gauri (health), Robin
Horn and Alberto Rodriguez (education), and Indermit Gill (labor). Appraisal took place from
November 16 to 23, working jointly with an IDB team led by Alvaro Cubillos. Alberto Ninio and
Jose Augusto Carvalho prepared the Legal Agreement and provided valuable advice. The team
received valuable advice from Anabela Abreu, Francisco Ferreira, Mila Freire, Norman Hicks,
Theresa Jones, Phil Musgrove, Vic Paqueo, Lauritz Holm-Nielsen, Paul Meo, Jean-Jacques de St.
Antoine, Jee-Peng Tan, Michael Walton, and Donald Winkler (and the LCSHD education group).
Patty Villagomez and Esther Peckham provided support in Washington. Fabiana Imperatriz and Julia
Ribeiro provided support in Brasilia.



ANNEX 1 - CURRENT STATUS OF BRAZIL'S SOCIAL SECTOR PROGRAMS AND RECENT
INNOVATIONS .............................................................                                                         37
A.   Social Assistance Programs .............................................................                                 37
Background .............................................................                                               37
Comunidade Solidaria .........................................................                                         37
Education of Child Labor .............................................................                                 38
Bolsa Escola or Renda Minima (School Scholarships and Minimum Income
Program) .............................................................                                                 38
Decentralized Administration and Improved Accountability for Social
Assistance Programs .............................................................                                      38
B.   Education  Strategy  and  Issues .............................................................                           39
Background .............................................................                                               39
Performance of the Education  System  .............................................................  39
National Education  Development and Maintenance Fund ..............                                      .................. 40
Program   of Maintenance and  Development of Schools .................                                  ................... 40
C.   Health  Strategy  and Issues .............................................................                               41
Background .............................................................                                               41
Piso de Atenqdo Basico, Minimum Level of Spending on Basic
Health  Services .............................................................                                         42
Programa de Saude da Familia, the Family  Health Program  .............                                      .............. 42
D.   Labor Strategy  and Issues .............................................................                                 42
Background .............................................................                                               42
Improving  Labor Regulation .............................................................                              43
Improving  Labor Market Programs ..................................                          ........................... 43
ANNEX 2- BRAZIL'S PROGRAM OF PROTECTED SOCIAL EXPENDITURES ...................... 45
Annex 2 Table  1:  Protected  Programs in  Social Assistance ............                                  ........................ 45
Annex  2 Table 2:  Protected  Programs in Education ................................................ 47
Annex  2 Table 3:  Protected  Programs in Health ..................................................... 50
Annex  2 Table 4:  Protected  Programs in Labor ....................................................... 53
ANNEX 3- WORLD BANK - BRAZIL POLICY SUMMARY BY SECTOR                                                             ..  54
Annex 3 Table 1: Brazil Policy Summary - Overall Macroeconomic Framework. 54
Annex  3 Table 2:  Brazil Policy  Summary -  Social Assistance ............................... 55
Annex  3 Table 3:  Brazil Policy  Summary -  Education ........................................... 57
Annex  3 Table 4:  Brazil Policy  Summary - Health  ...................................                           ............. 59
Annex  3 Table 5:  Brazil Policy  Summary - Labor .................................................. 61
ANNEX 4-INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - BRAZIL POLICY MATRIX (DRAFT,
ENGLISH  TRANSLATION) .............................................................                                               62
ANNEX  5-  LETTER  OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY  ............................................................. 68
Cover Letter .............................................................                                                    68
Letter of Economic Policy ............................................................. 69
Letter of Sector Policy ..............................................................                                        75
ANNEX  6-  BRAZIL - KEY  ECONOMIC  INDICATORS ....................................................... 88
ANNEX 7-STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL OPERATIONS PORTFOLIO91
ANNEX 8- STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL STATEMENT OF IFC's
COMMITTED  AND DISBURSED  PORTFOLIO ............................................................                                   93
ANNEX  9-  BRAZIL AT A  GLANCE ...........................................................                                        95
2



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$252,520,000
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
I. OVERVIEW
1.    The proposed Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan for the Republic
of Brazil would be for US$252,520,000, the first of a two-phased program to support the
strengthening of the Government's social protection program. The loan would be at US$
LIBOR plus 400 basis points, a one percent front-end fee to be financed out of the loan,
and a 75 basis points commitment charge without waivers, 5-year maturity, including 3
years of grace. A comprehensive overview of Brazil's macroeconomic situation and of
the Government's adjustment program are described in the Framework Paper (SecM98-
943) distributed to the Board on November 25, 1998. The Framework Paper also
describes the World Bank's program to support Brazil's adjustment efforts through three
Special SECAL programs: Social Security Reform, Administrative Reform, and Social
Protection. It further describes the Bank's collaboration with the IMF and the IDB in the
design of the program and the benefits and risks involved in the overall program.
2.    Program of Support for Strengthening the Social Protection System. This
loan is the first in a program of two loans to support the strengthening of Brazil's system
of social protection. Our support to the Brazilian Government as part of the larger
international package of support signals the Bank's endorsement of the Government's
structural reforms and commitment to the resumption of growth as the core policies
necessary to maintain and expand the gains made by the poor in Brazil during the past
five years. Over 15 million people have been lifted out of poverty since 1993. By also
providing assistance directly in support of the strengthening of the social protection
program, the Bank is signaling its willingness to assist the Government to build up its
system of social protection during this temporary period of heightened economic
insecurity. A second, larger loan, which would be an integral part of the program, would
support Brazil's efforts to further reduce income insecurity during a recession for the
working poor and those who still are inadequately covered by the social protection
system.
3.    The Program's First Loan. To that end, this first loan supports four classes of
action that the Government has taken: (a) development of a set of financial instruments
at the federal level to put a nationwide floor on the funding of basic education and health
services, along with other changes that encourage decentralized management and provide
increased funding for non-salary expenses to improve the quality and efficiency of those
services; (b) improving the targeting and effectiveness of federal anti-poverty programs
in poorer municipalities through the Comunidade Soliddria program; (c) strengthening
the system of social protection in anticipation of the economic crisis by extending
3



unemployment benefits, increasing the coverage of the school lunch program, and
increasing funding for cash transfers to poorer households containing elderly and
disabled people; and (d) formulating a list of 22 core programs in social assistance,
education, health, and labor whose budgets have been, as a whole, maintained at 1998
levels despite deep cuts in the rest of the federal budget.
4.    The Government's Letter of Sector Policy. As this first operation is a one-
tranche loan, assurances in the Government's letter of sector policy are important for
providing a sense of its ownership of the program and the urgency it attaches to
strengthening the social protection system. The Government indicates its intention to use
the instruments available to it, including returning to Congress for additional funds (while
maintaining fiscal neutrality), to assure that spending on the 22 protected programs
provides an adequate level of protection even if the recession turns out to be worse than
expected. It will set up a system to monitor spending on these programs to ensure that
expenditure targets are met by the four ministries involved. It will develop options for
better emergency income support for the working poor who do not qualify for the formal
sector unemployment insurance program, drawing on its own experience with the
emergency Northeast Drought Relief Program and international best practice. Finally,
the Government outlines a broad program of analytical work to review the adequacy and
effectiveness of programs within its social protection system, to improve support for the
working poor, to improve the targeting and means testing of social programs, to develop
pilot programs like Bolsa Escola and the Child Labor Eradication Program, and to
develop further the equity-enhancing effects of general federal support for education and
health services.
5.    Shortcomings in the Brazilian Social Protection System. The Brazilian
authorities recognize that despite the advances of the past several years in strengthening
its social protection system, many gaps remain. The main gaps are briefly described
below.
(a)   Income Supportfor the Working Poor: The most important is the need
for better income support for households not currently covered by
unemployment insurance that are vulnerable to income loss during a
recession: the poor, those just above the poverty line, and households
headed by women. The Government recognizes that the problems for
these groups will require differentiated programs for urban and rural areas.
Even within urban areas, recent evidence suggests that the poor do not fit
preconceived patterns on location, employment, or use of services, making
it difficult to reach them with large standardized programs. Yet evidence
presented in this document suggests that many of the people who will be
affected negatively by a recession will be city residents in the South and
Southeast.
(b)   Interactions Among Programs: A second, and closely related concern, is
the need to understand better the level of support provided by federal
programs, including their effectiveness, the adequacy of spending,
overlaps, and gaps in coverage. These programs offer some degree of
support today to those who also might benefit by emergency employment
4



programs; the Government is concerned that any additional support should
be provided in a cost-effective manner that does not duplicate existing
benefits.
(c)   Targeting: A third concern is how to better target and means test some
existing high-cost programs, such as housing, training, and urban water
and sanitation. In a constrained fiscal situation in which new funding will
not be available, better targeting of these programs could free up resources
to close some of the gaps.
(d)   Intergovernmental Responsibilities and Relationships: A fourth concern
is how to improve the financial and performance incentives in the social
protection system across levels of government to achieve greater
uniformity across the country in the base of support available to the
population.
6.    The World Bank's Strategy of Support for Strengthening Brazil's Social
Protection System. Faced with this situation: an economic crisis, a social protection
system that has been reformed and strengthened but still has gaps; knowledge gaps about
performance of the system, and the opportunity of a partnership with the IDB (explained
in the next paragraph), the Bank is providing a program of lending support rather than a
single loan. Preparation for the second loan will be facilitated by the following:
(a)   Collaboration with the IDB: Taking the opportunity to leam more about
the reforms and operational issues connected with the Brazilian system
through joint appraisal of the IDB and World Bank loans, plus joint
supervision of the IDB operation.
(b)   Policy and Analytical Work: Completing and reviewing with the
Government analytical work that is outlined in this document, in the
Government's letter of sector policy, and in policy matrices agreed with
both the Bank and IDB. The analytical work will be supported through
the existing portfolio of World Bank and IDB loans in Education and
Health, an IDB loan in Labor, and a proposed World Bank technical
assistance loan in the Ministry of Pensions and Social Assistance to
review social assistance programs. This coordinated program across four
ministries will review the effectiveness of specific programs in each sector
and analyze options for possible policy changes. The idea of the
analytical work is to develop options for improving income support for
vulnerable groups (but within the context of understanding better the
support that is already available), options for financing a reoriented and
more equitable system of protection within existing budget constraints,
and improvements in the effectiveness and targeting of the protected
programs.
(c)   Best Practice: Work with the Brazilian authorities to review international
best practice and to draw lessons for strengthening the Brazilian system.
5



7.    Partnership with the IDB. The IDB and the Bank made a strategic decision to
develop a complementary program of support rather than to duplicate efforts. This first
World Bank loan of $252 million was appraised jointly with a three-tranche, 1 2-month,
US$2 billion IDB operation supporting the same program of protected expenditures and
analytical work. The draft IDB conditionality matrix is attached in Annex 4, and the
Government's letter of sector policy is jointly addressed to both banks. These first loans
have permitted the two banks to deepen the dialogue with the Government on
strengthening its social protection system, to appraise recent reforms and the current
program of protected spending, and to agree on areas for further work. The IDB loan
involves ensuring the achievement of expenditure targets for the protected programs,
providing evidence of physical outputs of the programs, and completing agreed analytical
work. The World Bank team will participate with the IDB in supervising its loan,
thereby learning along with the IDB and the Government more about the mechanics of
protecting the core set of programs (including the Government's system for monitoring
expenditures, the adequacy of spending, and the functionality of the proposed system for
monitoring outputs). The two institutions will also continue, within the supervision
process, the dialogue on commitments made by the Government in its letter of sector
policy to increase expenditures on the protected programs if warranted by an
unexpectedly deep recession and to develop options for emergency income support for
the working poor. As the IDB's disbursements finish at the end of 1999, the Bank's
second loan should be ready to begin disbursing. The new loan will build on what we
will have learned during the first year of support through supervision of the IDB
operation and the analytic work to be completed.
8.    The Program's Second Loan. The second loan is intended to be a multi-tranche
operation of approximately US$ 1.0 billion. That loan would be appraised in
October/November 1999, with a backup plan to appraise by May if economic conditions
require it. The areas below indicate elements of the system that the Bank would expect to
support in the proposed second loan:
(a)   Best-Practice Safety Net System: Addressing the key elements that will
support a self-selection-based, counter-cyclical safety net system that
reflects best practice in Brazil and internationally. Such a program would
require excellent knowledge of who is vulnerable and how support could
be provided to a fairly heterogeneous group through a variety of automatic
instruments that depend on self-selection to achieve good targeting.
(b)   Assessment, Information, and Evaluation: Support for a stronger
evaluation culture in social protection, with program impacts,
administrative performance, and service quality being subjected to regular
evaluation, assessment, and improvement. Such a system would require
improved nationally representative surveys that collect information on
access to, demand for, and the net impact of programs, as well as basic
consumption or income indicators of living standards.
(c)   Reform: The Bank would engage in analysis and dialogue with the
Government to support reforms that would contribute substantially to the
strengthening of the social protection system:
6



(i)    Protected Programs: Support to the protected programs for 2000
and 2001, but with an improved idea of the appropriate mix of
programs and expenditure amounts. Other actions to strengthen
the programs would include greater cost effectiveness, better
means testing, and a stronger accountability framework.
(ii)   A Stronger Safety Net for the Working Poor: A program of
income support for the vulnerable groups, including expansion of
pilot programs such as Bolsa Escola and the program to combat
child labor, in the context of understanding better the support
currently available to the affected households and identification of
how best to strengthen assistance for them. Such a program would
have to be financed by cutting back on other poorly targeted or
ineffective programs.
(iii)   Health: Revision of the funding formula for health services to
increase incentives for cost effective services, to increase the funds
available for basic preventive and ambulatory services, and to
target poorer municipalities with additional funds.
(iv)   Education: Changed funding priorities in education to further
increase the availability of federal funds for basic education, with
funds freed up through means testing of poorly targeted subsidies,
including other areas of education.
(v)   Labor: Improved integration into the labor market, greater
efficiency, and effective targeting of training programs.
9.    Summary. This first loan is the beginning of the Bank's involvement in a
program of support to strengthen Brazil's system of social protection. For Brazil, this is
not the beginning but a continuation of its successful efforts of the past four years to
improve economic opportunities for the poor, to increase public investments in the
human capital and other assets of the poor, and to provide a better system of social
protection for everyone. The process we will follow in developing this program of
support recognizes Brazil's accomplishments, the fact that there are still gaps to be filled,
and the need to engage in a partnership to strengthen the system. To that end we have
appraised with the IDB the existing system and recent innovations to strengthen it for the
first loans by the two banks. We will learn more operationally about the social protection
system over the next several months by participating in the supervision of the IDB loan.
We will collaborate with the Brazilian government and the IDB to complete a series of
studies focused on filling gaps and developing options for high-impact reforms. We will
follow in the second half of the year with a larger operation that helps the federal
government take another step forward in building up its system, focusing on the
identified gaps and drawing on Brazilian and international best practice.
7



II. SOCIAL PROTECTION ISSUES
A.   Poverty2                            Table 1. Geographical Distribution of the Poor in Brazil, 1996
10.    The poverty level in Brazil is     Region         Percentage Of Population   Distribution of Poor
high for   povertyle-incmelm c try.                           Who are Poor             In Brazil
high for a middle-income country.          North-East            47.9%                   62.7%
At a poverty line of about R$65            South-East             9.2%                   17.7%
income per capita per month, Brazil        South                  12.1%                  8.1%
has a poverty headcount ratio of 22.6      North                  30.1%                  6.4%
percent. In other words, about 35          Center-West            16.3%                  5.0%
million of Brazil's 1996 population        Total                  22.6%                  100%
of 155 million were poor.3
11.    Geographical
Distribution. Tables 1 and 2        Table 2. Urban/Rural Distribution of the Poor in Brazil, 1996
show the strong concentration
of the poor in the North-East       Urban-Rural Areas        Percentage Of Population    Distribution of
Who are Poor         Poor In Brazil
(63 percent) and n rural areas.     Rural Areas                      52.0%                 47.5%
The South-East is the               Non-Metropolitan Urban            18.8%                41.2%
wealthiest area of the country,     Metropolitan Areas                8.5%                  11.2%
but it contributes 18 percent of    Total                            22.6%                  100%
the poor to the total because of
its high population share.
Overall, poverty remains a problem
concentrated in rural areas (48         Table 3. Employment and the Poor in Brazil, 1996
percent of the poor) and non-
metropolitan urban areas (41             Employment Status,        Percentage Of       Distribution of
percent).                                Head of Household       Population Who are    Poor In Brazil
Poor
Self-Employed30.7%                        36.6%
12.    Employment. The poor are    Self-Employed                      30.7%               36.6%
Informal Employed            36.6%               21.6%
economically active: about 63           Inactive                       18.7%              14.6%
percent of the heads of households       Formal Employed               11.0%              11.3%
of poor families are either self-        Unemployed                   45.8%                5.6%
employed, working in the informal        Unpaid                       46.9%                5.0%
4         Public Servants               10.7%               4.1%
sector, or working but unpaid..          Total                        22.6%                100%
Another 15.4 percent are working
either in the formal sector or for the
2 References for this section are as follows: Tables 1-4: IBGE-PNAD 1996; special tabulations by M.
Neri, World Bank; Figure 1: IBGE-PNAD and special tabulation by Sonia Rocha; Table 5: Estimates
by Joachim von Amsberg, World Bank; Figure 2: IBGE-PPV 1997 and World Bank estimates for
social assistance.
3This estimate is based on a poverty profile recently compiled on the basis of the 1996 PNAD using a
poverty line equivalent to the cost of a food basket sufficient to meet nutritional requirements. The
poverty line roughly corresponds to the poorest quintile in the income distribution.
4Unpaid means working a few hours a week in a family business without direct payment or charitable
activities.
8



government. Thus nearly 80 percent are working but are not earning enough to escape
poverty. Only 20 percent of the poor are inactive economically or unemployed (see
Table 3).
13.   Education and Poverty.
Table 4 illustrates the strong inverse    Table 4. Education of the Poor in Brazil, 1996
correlation between education levels    Level of Education,  Percentage Of    Distribution of
and poverty rates in Brazil. Nearly  Head of Household    Population Who are   Poor In Brazil
92 percent of the heads of poor                               Poor
households have not graduated from    l to 4 Years            4632%           29.2%
primary school, and 74 percent have    4 to 8 Years           15.8%           18.0%
not completed fourth grade. The key    8 - 12 Years           5.4%             4.9%
missing asset among poor households   More than 12 Years      0.3%             0.1%
is human capital in the form of      Total                    22.6%            100%
education of the household head.
14.   Change over Time. Brazil's
poverty rate fell dramatically from
1983-86, briefly reaching 25 percent.    Figure 1: Population in Poverty in Brazil, 1981-1996
It then rose back to about 30 percent       45%
and stayed there until 1993. There          40%                    ......  
was a second dramatic decline in            35%             ........... - . ..
1994 and 1995, with economic      .y 30%                  .......
stabilization, the removal of the       >25%
inflation tax on the poor, and rising   X   20 .  . ,
real wages (see Figure 1). The              2%81   1984   1987   1990   1993   1996
poverty rate was once again
apparently stable from 1995 to 1997.                            Year
15.   Inequality in Brazil. Brazil is a relatively rich and well developed country to
have had such a serious and persistent poverty problem. The situation is attributable to
many possible causes, but two important ones are (a) many years of poor economic
performance and (b) one of the most skewed income distributions in the world. In 1989,
for example, the highest 10 percent of the income distribution in Brazil received over half
of the income (51 percent), compared to 39 percent in Mexico, 47 percent in South
Africa, 25 percent in the United States, and 21 percent in Sweden. Because of the
relative wealth of the country, the amount needed to lift every poor person up to a
poverty line of R$65 income per capita per month would amount to only R$7.8 billion, or
1 percent of GDP. The amount spent on pensions, health, social assistance, and
education in 1995 reached about R$130 billion, far in excess of the amount required but
clearly not targeted well enough to solve the problem.
Poverty Impact of the Crisis
16.   Experience. A period of financial and economic uncertainty could be expected to
have a number of well-known negative consequences that will tend to make life more
difficult for the poor and add to the number of people falling below the poverty line.
Some of the key impacts fall within the following categories:
9



(a)    Those who are already poor become poorer (or move farther below the
poverty line).
(b)    People move from formal sector jobs into informal sector jobs and into
unemployment, and the self employed face an even greater risk of poverty.
(c)    An increasing proportion of the unemployed enter poverty, if only
temporarily.
(d)    Secondary adjustments start taking place, increasing with the length and
depth of the economic problem: more women and children begin
searching for jobs as secondary workers; children become more likely to
drop out of school temporarily or fail to enter; and people who can no
longer afford alternative service providers begin using low-cost public
health and education services more heavily.
17.   The Past Year in Brazil. The past year has provided some indications of the
dangers economic uncertainty may hold for Brazil. The Asian crisis of 1997 was
associated with a rise in the unemployment rate in Brazil of 2.5 percentage points, or
about 30 percent, in one month between December 1997 and January 1998. The Russian
crisis of August 1998 and the resultant spike in interest rates in Brazil appears to have
reduced employment growth. The unemployment rate normally declines between May
and December due to seasonal factors, but in 1998 it has held steady at above 8 percent
over this period. The estimated poverty rate in six major metropolitan areas during the 12
months up to June 1998 was already 5 percent higher than for the previous 12 months.
Inequality measures in these cities have gone up almost to pre-1994 levels over this short
period.5
18.   Quantifying the Poverty Impact of a Recession. While it is difficult to project
the poverty impact of the current period of economic uncertainty, a lower bound can be
established by assuming that everyone is affected equally by a recession, or that incomes
fall uniformly. If that were the case, the poverty rate would increase by about 0.4
percentage points in Brazil for each percent reduction of aggregate income. A one
percent drop in GDP would therefore add 0.6 million to the poor population, a two
percent drop would add 1.2 million, and so on. However, it is unlikely that a recession
would affect everyone equally. Recent experiences in Mexico, Asia, and Brazil suggest
that a drop in GDP disproportionately affects those close to the poverty line, so that
inequality would increase, compounding the problem and possibly leading to four times
the impact than would otherwise expected. Thus a higher bound estimate might be an
5Source: Marcelo Neri, "A Evolucao de Medidas de Pobreza Basea das em Renda do Trabalho Nos Anos
90," mimeo IPEA. This estimate of a possible recent increase in the poverty rate is based on the PME
(Pesquisa Mensal de Emprego - Monthly Employment Survey), a monthly household survey with a
limited questionnaire and a geographic scope limited to the six major metropolitan areas. The PME
covers less than ten percent of Brazil's poor. However, PME results are available through the first
half of 1998. The PNAD (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicilios - National Household
Survey), on which all of the other poverty data in this report is based, is a large annual household
survey that covers the entire country and allows compilation of detailed poverty profiles by location
and household characteristics. The last available PNAD is from 1996.
10



increase of almost 2.5 million in the number of poor during a recession with a one
percent drop in GDP (see Table 5).
Table 5. Estimates of the Impact of a Recession on the Number of Poor
Sensitivity of the Poverty Rate to   Percentage of Population    Total Number of  Incremental Number
GDP Changes                         Who are Poor         Poor (Millions)    of Poor (Millions)
Current Situation                      22.6%                  34.9
I% drop in GDP -- Lower Bound          23.0%                  35.5               0.6
1% drop in GDP -- Higher Bound         24.2%                  37.4               2.5
2% drop in GDP --Lower Bound           23.4%                  36.1                1.2
2% drop in GDP -- Higher Bound         25.8%                  39.9                5.0
Note: These are simple linear estimates. so higher reductions in GDP would result in proportional increases in the
estimated number of additional poor people.
19.    Who Would Become Poor? A simulation provides a glimpse of who might
become poor in a recession with a I percent drop in GDP. We assumed that the 600,000
people just above the poverty line would be most likely to fall below it in a recession.6 It
is interesting to note how the profile of this hypothetical group of recession-generated or
"new" poor is different from the "stock" of poor. Figure 2 illustrates that they would be
more heavily concentrated in the Southeast. In fact. 51 percent would be in the South and
Southeast. Figure 3 indicates that 40 percent would come from the ranks of the self-
employed and informal sector workers (compared to 58 percent of the stock of poor),
while 25 percent would come from formal sector workers (compared with 11 percent in
the formal sector among the stock of poor). While hypothetical, this information
suggests that it could be possible to anticipate who needs to be helped at the margin
during the recession, how important it would be to track what actually happens, and the
value of being able to adjust at least some of the programs quickly to reach those affected
adversely by the economic downturn. For example, it appears that unemployment
insurance will be an appropriate intervention for about 32 percent of the newly poor - a
higher percentage than would be expected based on averages for the whole poor
Figure 2: Estimate of Distribution of New
Poor Relative to the Existing Poor
Figure 3: Estimate of Occupations of Heads of
Households of New Poor Relative to Existing
North                                       Poor
North-East                 _                       Self-Employed
Informal Employed
Center-West
Formal Employed
South-East              Legend                     Public Servants
South  r               Poor                       Unemployed                Legend
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70%          Inactive and Unpaid   _            Poor
0% 5% 10%15%20%25%30%35%40%
6 The assumption of 600,000 people comes from the lower bound estimate for a I% decline in GDP from
Table 5).
11



population - but that other options need to be explored for the remaining 68 percent.
20.   Experience in Latin America. The Government now estimates a one percent
decline in GDP could occur in 1999. It might be useful to point out some of the recent
experience and, by implication, the importance of planning for the contingency of a
deeper or longer recession. Latin America has experienced two major crises in the last 15
years, both originating in Mexico. Mexico's 1980s debt crisis spread throughout Latin
America, and its 1995 liquidity crisis spread only to Argentina. Both crises hit
households hard. In the 1980s, real wages in Argentina and Mexico fell by nearly 40
percent and unemployment rose by 9 percentage points within a year. In the 1995-96
crisis, real wages in Mexico fell by more than 30 percent. In Argentina, unemployment
rose by 6 percentage points and remained around 18 percent of the workforce for more
than 2 years. Poverty increased by more than 50 percent. A lesson from this experience
is that policy makers should have spent at least as much time ameliorating the social
impacts of the crisis as trying to solve its immediate macroeconomic causes.7
Maintaining basic social services and developing well targeted emergency income
programs were integral elements of the adjustment program in Chile, one of the few
countries that mounted an effective social response. There, three different income
support programs that targeted poor and unskilled workers, heads of households, and
skilled labor, continued up to 1988. The aim was income maintenance, not job creation.
Work was used as a disincentive to participate. These programs provided employment at
the peak for up to 600,000 people. Wages paid ranged between 25 and 40 percent of the
minimum wage.
21.   Experience in Asia. The more recent experience in East Asia caught the world
by surprise. Labor demand collapsed abruptly. In Thailand, unemployment rose by 50
percent, from 1.0 million to 1.5 million people, between August 1997 and February 1998.
In Korea, unemployment rose from just over 2 percent in October 1997 to 7 percent in
June 1998, corresponding to about 1.5 million additional people losing their jobs. In the
Philippines, which was relatively unaffected by the severe crisis that hit the rest of Asia,
the unemployment rate jumped from 8 percent to nearly 14 percent between January and
April 1998. In Indonesia, the country experiencing the worst disaster, up to 10 million
people may have lost their jobs over the past 18 months and either become unemployed,
moved into the urban informal sector, or went back to the countryside.8
22.   Implications for the Social Protection System. The whole purpose of the
preventive actions the Brazilian Government has taken is to avoid the outcomes described
in the previous two paragraphs. But it faces a unique problem of its own; not only may
more people fall into poverty temporarily, but there is also an acute need to continue to
whittle away at the underlying problem of inequality. Holding down an increase in
inequality will put a brake on the number of people who fall into poverty as the result of a
7 Adapted from Walton, Michael and Nora Lustig, "East Asia Can Learn from Latin America's Travails,"
International Herald Tribune (May 29, 1998), also summarized in Walton, Michael and Tamar Atinc
(1998), "Social Consequences of the East Asian Financial Crisis," World Bank.
8 Adapted from Walton, Michael and Tamar Atinc (1998), "Social Consequences of the East Asian
Financial Crisis," World Bank. Information on the East Asia Crisis is available from the following
website: http://projects.forumone.com/poverty/eacrisis/index.htm.
12



contraction. Brazil's first objective, of course, is to keep any downturn as short and
shallow as possible, which is the fundamental rationale for the Government's current
stabilization policies and for the Bank's Support Program. Beyond that, Brazil's system
of social protection and this proposed loan share the following specific objectives:
(a)   Maintain expenditures for human capital investment in basic education to
try to increase the proportion of poor children in school, keep them in
school, and help them learn more. This is the most important investment
Brazil can make to transfer a key productive asset to the poor and change
its history of inequality. These investments will also be important to
households that temporarily experience a drop in income and/or
unemployment and find it more difficult to maintain expenditures to keep
their children in school.
(b)   For similar reasons, maintain the level of expenditures for basic medical
care and nutrition services.
(c)   Provide support (or near-cash substitutes of goods and services) to
maintain minimum consumption levels for the working poor who may
become unemployed but who do not qualify for unemployment insurance.
(d)   Provide temporary income support through unemployment insurance for
those working in the formal sector who may become unemployed.
(e)   Maintain income support for the aged and disabled, especially those
residing in poor households or who do not have other means of support.9
23.   In the past, Brazil has had programs (primarily pensions and unemployment
insurance) that partially met objectives (d) and (e), but these were not able to address the
needs of many poor people in spite of their high cost. However, the available institutions
did not lend themselves to addressing objectives (a), (b), and (c) well. A fundamental
change has occurred, however, during the last two to three years; the federal government
has created the institutional and financial instruments to address (a) and (b) effectively
and to improve the support for (d) and (e). The weakest part of the social protection
system is (c), but even there, progress has been made recently.
B.  Social Sector Finance
24.   Distribution of Responsibilities. One of the major constraints of the federal
government in developing a social protection system that addresses objectives (a) and (b)
(maintaining expenditures for basic education and health services) is the fact that a large
share of tax revenues and spending in the social sectors is outside of its control.
Moreover, implementation of these programs is almost completely outside its purview.
9Of course there is overlap here with the pension reformn programn, but the focus in this loan is on the aged
who are not covered by regular pensions.
13



25.   The 1988 Constitution created both a decentralized assignment of tax capacity
and large federal transfers to states and municipalities that greatly increased their share of
public resources. Today, the federal government is responsible for roughly 60 percent of
tax collections, but after the constitutionally mandated transfers to the lower levels, its
share of available income falls to 49 percent, leaving states with 32 percent and
municipalities 19 percent of total revenue.
26.    Public social expenditure is divided almost equally between federal government
outlays and spending by the 25 states and 5,000 municipalities. In 1995, total social
spending by all three levels of government reached an estimated R$124 billion (about 19
percent of GDP), if social security is included in the total."  If social security is
excluded, total spending on education, health, and housing was R$54.7 million. Using
this lower figure, social sector spending patterns across levels of government and
programs are summarized in Tables 6 and 7.
27.   About half of federal spending in the social sectors goes to education (Table 6),
but it only accounts for about 19
percent of total spending on
education; the states alone        Table 6. Brazil Social Expenditures - Percentage Distribution across
account for half (Table 7). The    Programs, 1995
federal government is relatively     Program                  Federal   State   Municipal   Total
more important in health than in     Education and Culture     49%      63%       42%       52%
the other two sectors. Even so,      Health                    46%      32%       29%       34%
and dp tHousing and Urbanization  5%       5%       29%       14%
and despite the fact that it         Total                     100%    100%       100%     100%
transfers large sums of money to
states and municipalities for
health, the federal goverment      Table 7. Brazil Social Expenditures - Percentage Distribution across
directly manages less than a       Levels of Government, 1995
third of the total amount spent
(Table 7). It is easy to see that    Program                  Federal  State   Municipal   Total
education and health - the two       Education and Culture      19%     50%       31%      100%
programs that are most important     Health                     28%     39%       33%      100%
Housing and Urbanization  8%       14%      78%      100%
to maintain during a recession -              Total             21%     41%       38%      100%
are for the most part state and
local responsibilities.
28.    Distribution of the Benefits of Public Spending. A second major issue in
strengthening the social protection system is choosing well-targeted programs to protect
at the federal level. Existing basic ambulatory health services, primary education, and
nutrition services are targeted well relative to other programs, in that the poorest 20
percent of the population receives more than 20 percent of their benefits. Social
assistance programs certainly have some leakage, but most are estimated to be quite
0 Social sector expenditure data are derived from World Bank (1998), "Brazil - Fiscal Adjustment and
Social Spending: The Case of Education and Health in Four Brazilian States," Report No. BR-
17763.
Note that support for reform of the social security aspect of federal social spending is being provided
through the proposed Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan.
14



progressive (see Figure 4). However, they
account for a small percentage of total
spending.                                       Figure 4: Share to Poorest 20%
Basic Health
C.  Recent Innovations Strengthening          Nu.i1tion
the Social Protection System
Basic Ed
29.   Factors Constraining the                     .
Government's Ability to Reform the           Assistancel
System. Before describing recent
innovations in social protection in Brazil, it     0%   20%   40%   60%   80%
is important provide an idea of the
constraints faced by the Government as it has attempted to strengthen the system.
(a)   A Large, Decentralized System: The fundamental problem is the one just
presented: how to leverage federal spending, only a small share of the
total, to provide a better degree of social protection nationally than is
currently the case.
(b)   Constitutionally Earmarked Taxes: Many taxes are earmarked for
specific purposes that are not always well targeted or effectively spent.
Examples are the Fundo de Amparo ao Trabalhador (Worker's Protective
Fund, or FAT), which supports active labor market programs; the Sistema
Unico da Saude (Unified Health System, or SUS), wlhich finances health
services; the Salario Educacao, a payroll tax that partially supports the
National Education Development and Maintenance Fund (FUNDEF) and
the distribution of textbooks; and another payroll tax that funds the
employee's severance fund (FGTS), which supports an array of urban
social investments such as sanitation and housing. In the short run, it is
difficult to reallocate such funds, but over the longer term significant
adjustments can be made within and sometimes across programs to
strengthen the overall system.
(c)   Thze Legacy of Poorly Designed Interventions: Strong political
constituencies have developed around expensive social programs designed
long ago. With improved targeting or funding formulas, expenditures on
these programs could strengthen the social protection system and
contribute to reduced inequality. Examples include higher education,
health, housing, some water and sanitation expenditures, and a variety of
labor market programs.
30.   In short, while the federal government now spends about R$130 billion on various
social programs, including social security, the room for maneuver in the short run is
limited. The reforms that have been effected in the past three years, described below, are
impressive both for how they strengthen the system despite these constraints.
Nevertheless, loosening the constraints over the next two to three years will determine
how far and fast the strengthening of the social protection system will proceed.
15



31.   Recent Reforms. In the past two or three years, the federal government has
developed a number of programs and reformed others that, taken as a whole, have
significantly strengthened its system of social protection. These programs are briefly
summarized here, but details are included in Annex 1, which also provides an overview
of progress in each of the relevant sectors.
(a)   Social Assistance: Perhaps the most important reform in social assistance
was the authorization by Congress in 1998 for the federal government to
begin developing the Bolsa Escola program on a national scale. This
program provides an income subsidy to poor parents who keep their
children in primary school. The Bolsa Escola instrument has also been
adapted for the development of a carefully designed and targeted program
to eradicate child labor. Another innovation is the Comunidade Soliddria
program, created in 1995, to better coordinate 16 federal developmental
and poverty programs in the 1,450 poorest municipalities (out of a total of
nearly 5,000) and to create civic partnerships that will increase the
effectiveness of the programs. The federal government has also taken
steps to decentralize social assistance programs to the states and
municipalities, institutionalize the involvement of civil society in these
programs, and increase transparency and accountability throughout the
system.
(b)   Education: The federal government has also made major strides in
addressing inequalities in primary education in the last two years. There
are two key programs. In December 1997, Congress created the National
Education Development and Maintenance Fund (FUNDEF), which puts a
floor on per-student spending in primary school, with the federal
government stepping in to maintain this floor if necessary. A second
program, known as "Dinheiro na Escola" (Money to Schools), provides
money directly to primary schools for nonsalary expenditures on a per
capita basis, with higher amounts going to schools in poorer regions.
(c)   Health: In health, the federal government has taken a similar approach.
To provide a national floor on spending for basic ambulatory services, it
created the Piso de Atenqdo Bdsica (Basic Assistance Minimum), which it
finances. To encourage a cost-effective approach to primary care, it
created the Programa de Sauide da Familia (Family Health Program) and
provides funding for key inputs.
(d)   Labor: Unlike Argentina and the comparator countries in East Asia that
provide no protection for the unemployed, Brazil has a well-financed and
conservatively designed unemployment system for formal sector workers.
In anticipation of a recession, it has increased eligibility for these benefits
from 12 to 18 months per bout of unemployment. In addition, it has begun
relaxing some of its restrictive labor policies through legislation allowing
temporary suspension of labor contracts with the provision of
opportunities for retraining of workers.
16



32.   These reforms add up to a considerable strengthening of the social protection
system in a short period of time. The innovations have focused on improving some of the
programs that were already good, such as unemployment insurance; addressing in a
creative and effective way the problem of addressing equity problems when education
and health spending is decentralized; creating incentives in education and health for
greater responsiveness to clients' needs; coordinating poverty programs; and increasing
the participation of civil society in addressing social assistance issues locally.
D.  The Social Protection System - A Monitorable Program of Protected Social
Expenditures
33.   The strengthening of the social protection described above put Brazil in a good
position, in the face of a threatening economic environment, to assemble a list of
programs - including both those referred to in the previous section and some older
programs - to be protected during an economic downturn. In October and November
1998, as part of the preparation of the revised federal budget proposal, an effort was
made to (a) generally cut spending less in Social Assistance, Education, Health, and
Labor than in other ministries, and (b) protect a list of well-targeted programs within
those ministries. The Government focused its efforts on programs that would protect, as
priorities: (a) the young, (b) the old and disabled, and (c) working adults. A one percent
drop in GDP was assumed, with the most intense needs for protection expected to come
within the first six months of 1999.
34.   The program of protected expenditures includes 22 programs with a proposed
budget of R$11.4 billion. To introduce the program in a general way, Table 8 below lists
in the first column the criteria presented in paragraph 15. The second column lists the
programs, and the third column provides a brief evaluation of the program.
Table 8. Summary of Brazil's Protected Programs
Criteria            Special Protected Programs  Evaluation
Maintain expenditures The "Dinheiro na Escola" and  For primary education, this set of
in basic education.    Fundescola program (which    programs puts a floor on per capita
provide federal funds directly  spending, with the federal government
to schools), National      acting as "financier of last resort" and
Education Development and   includes federal funding for key inputs.
Maintenance Fund, provision
of textbooks, school lunches',
Bolsa Escola that provides a
payment to parents if children
are enrolled in primary
school3
17



Table 8. Summary of Brazil's Protected Programs
Criteria             Special Protected Programs   Evaluation
Maintain expenditures Piso Atencao Basico Program   This is a set of well conceived basic
for basic medical care  (PAB), Family and        health programs intended to put a floor
and nutrition services. Community Health Program,   on per capita expenditures for primary
vaccination program,        health services, protect drug supplies,
Nutritional Assistance     improvement in the quality of family
Program, school lunches',   health services, and maintain key
Basic Drug Program,         public health and preventive programs.
Women's Health Program
Provide temporary    Children from poor families:   This group is built around existing
income support (or    support for children and   social assistance programs. Federal
goods and services)   adolescents, program for the   funding for the programs targeted to
for the poor and those  eradication of child labor,  children in poor families was to be
working in the       Bolsa Escola3               discontinued. The major gap in this
informal sector.                                 part of the program is a lack of self-
Informal sector workers losing  targeted public employment programs
employment: professional    to maintain incomes. However,
training'                   because there are a variety of programs
for which poor households are eligible
(including labor training, credit
programs, land reform, disability, and
old age pensions) this problem may be
reduced (but not eliminated).
Provide temporary    Unemployment insurance,     Unemployment insurance is a well
income support for    salary bonus for low-wage  designed and well-funded program; the
those in the formal    workers, professional training2  salary bonus is well-targeted, and the
sector.                                         training program is being evaluated.
Maintain income      Disability and old age      Good program of support. Funding for
support for the aged    pensions, support for the  the disabled and elderly in poor
and disabled.        disabled in poor families,  families should increase automatically
support for the elderly in poor  if family income falls below the
families                    poverty line.
'The school lunch program is included both as an education program and as a nutrition program.
2These programs benefit both formal and informal sector workers so appear in both categories.
3Included both as an education program and social assistance for informal sector/poor.
35.   Parenthetically, a sunmmary of The World Bank's strategy to address the social
impact of the crisis in East Asia is shown below in Table 9. This strategy includes
creating employment programs and maintaining income for the poor; ensuring basic
social services, and strengthening civil society and social institutions.
36.   The Brazilian authorities have developed their system rapidly along exactly these
lines, as should be evident from the foregoing discussion. This is a work in progress,
however, and it will be some time before all of these issues can be fully addressed. A
particular concern is how best to provide income support for the poor. The federal
government has demonstrated its capability in the past year to mount such a program (the
Northeast Drought Relief Program) within months if necessary. It is experimenting with
18



alternative approaches, including Bolsa Escola and child labor eradication programs, that
tie income support to human capital investments in children rather than to physical
works."2
Table 9. Summary of World Bank's Strategy for Assisting to Reduce the Negative Social Consequences
of the East Asia Crisis
Short-term                   Long-term
Employment Creation and      Targeted interventions: public  Improve labor market
Income Maintenance           work programs; cash and in-    conditions; social
kind transfers; price subsidies   insurance/pension reform;
safety nets
Basic Social Services (Health,  Combat hunger; malnutrition;   Strengthen sector policies and
Education, Food Security)    disease; school dropout      programs
Strengthening Civil Society  Community participation;     Regulatory and institutional
Institutional Reform         NGO-partnerships,            reform; anti-corruption;
participatory process;       governance
transparency
37.   Given an emergency situation, the Government decided to do the best it could
with the programs available today, including the important innovations it has made in
guaranteeing a mininmum level of funding for basic health and education. It decided not
at this time to develop new programs or to expand experimental ones, like the Bolsa
Escola, while remaining prepared to consider emergency actions to provide income
support as the situation unfolds. The Government is well aware that the social protection
system could provide a more complete array of risk management options for the
population than is currently the case. It plans immediately to begin examining options to:
(a)    Protect households who are most vulnerable to falling into poverty during
a recession, principally those just above the poverty line and households
headed by women.
(b)   Improve the counter-cyclical impact of the protected programs.
(c)    Improve the evaluation and monitoring of programs, in the following
areas:
(i)   the impact of the programs in providing social protection when
taken as a group (their effectiveness, overlaps, and gaps in
coverage);
(ii)   how targeting and means testing could improve the incidence of
benefits from the programs;
12 The former may often have higher social rates of return than public works programs, although they do
not create the same disincentive to use the program.
19



(iii)  how financial and performance incentives between levels of
government could be improved; and
(iv)   what constitutes an adequate budget for the protected activities
(apart from the accumulated wisdom from past budgets).
38.   These issues are not unusual for any country and by no means diminish the
progress that Brazil has made in strengthening its social protection system. They
partially define the agenda for the Brazilian Government's future efforts to strengthen its
system, which is outlined in the Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 3). Several of the
highlights with regard to these issues are summarized below:
(a)   The letter points out that some of these problems can be managed using
tools already available to the Government. For example, it has the power
to adjust approved budget items by up to 15 percent (or 30 percent, as it
has proposed but not yet approved by Congress in the current budget) over
the course of the year. It is committed to using this instrument, plus the
option of returning to Congress for additional funds (subject to the overall
fiscal limits agreed with the IMF) to adjust spending as necessary on
protected social programs as necessary over the course of the year if the
economic assumptions underlying the budget prove to be significantly
wrong. The Government specifically commits itself to using these tools to
provide support to poorer states for primary education (for which the
necessary expenditure cannot be fully predicted in advance) and to react to
the increased demand that will be placed on some critical protected
programs in the event of an unexpectedly deep economic downturn.
(b)   The Government is committed to use the two tools just described, in
conjunction with several programs that are automatically counter-cyclical
(such as unemployment insurance and payments to the disabled and
elderly who live in poor households) to increase support if conditions
worsen. Moreover, the Government realizes that special actions may be
necessary to provide additional income-support options above and beyond
these existing programs for those who are self-employed or working in the
informal sector. It is committed to paying close attention to the impact of
the economic situation on this group and to develop, as necessary,
carefully targeted emergency responses (as was the case last year for the
emergency Northeast Drought Relief Program). Over the longer period, as
part of the strengthening of the social protection system, the Government
will work with the Bank to explore options to strengthen this aspect of the
system.
(c)   The Government commits itself to evaluate the effectiveness of the
protected programs and to take actions to improve the targeting,
accountability, and management of the programs.
20



E.   General Social Expenditures and the Protected Social Programs
39.   The question of how well the programs have in fact been protected is addressed at
two levels: how (a) general social sector spending and (b) spending on the list of
protected programs have been treated in the 1999 budget. The conclusion is that they
both have been protected relative to the rest of the budget. For the protected programs
they have been maintained at approximately the same level of spending as planned for
1998 budget, and they have been increased significantly relative to spending in 1997.
40.    Overall Budget Cuts. In revising the budget proposal between August and
November 1998, the federal government focused on non-salary costs, which include
"activities," or recurrent costs, and "projects," or investment costs. These are the two
categories of expenditure most amenable to adjustment in the short run. The original
proposal for this discretiona7 budget, including labor programs financed by the
earmarked payroll tax, FAT, 3was cut by 16.8 percent, from R$52 billion to R$43.3
billion. Approximately R$4.9 billion was cut from activities (11.4 percent of spending in
that category), and R$3.8
billion was cut from projects         Figure 5: Percentage of Orginal Budget
Proposal Preserved in the Revised Budget
(43.2 percent). An attempt was   100%
made to keep most regular          90%
programs operating with fewer      80%
70%
resources while about 44           60%
percent of the cut was financed    50i
by eliminating or delaying         30%
investment projects.               10%
0%    _
41.    Social Programs                     Activities      Projects       Overall
Maintained, Relatively.                  E Health          Pensions and Social Assistance
Within these cuts, which spared         * Education      * Other
Within these                  *~~~~~~~~~ Labor&8 FAT    B Total
no ministry, the social sectors
and protected programs made
up 5 of the 7 least cut areas
among 29 ministry-level line items in the summary budget. The bar chart illustrates the
result (see Figure 5). Health, for example, maintained 93.4 percent of expenditures
proposed originally in the August submission; Education, 87.7 percent; Labor/FAT, 89.6
percent; and Pensions and Social Assistance, 87.3 percent. The remaining 22 ministries,
combined together in the graph under "Other," maintained an average of 71.3 percent of
the original proposal, with a range of 93.4 percent for the Federal District to only 45.7
percent for Planning. The 7 most protected ministries  maintained 91.0 percent of the
13 FAT-financed expenditures, such as unemployment insurance, are included here because they are an
important part of the social protection system for formal sector workers. However, these expenditures
are not included in the Government's summary of the ministerial budgets. Including it raises total
expenditures by R$7.7 billion in the revised budget proposal.
14 Health; Federal District; Industry, Commerce, Tourism; FAT; Education; Labor; and Pensions and
Social Assistance
21



original budget, while the 7 least protected'5 maintained only 54.8 percent. Hard
decisions were made to protect social spending.
42.   The relative preservation of
social programs has translated into an
increase in their overall weight in the  Figure 6: Priorities in the Orginal ($52 Billion) and
proposed budget, which is shown in          Revised ($43 Billion) Budget Proposals
the two pie charts (Figure 6). In the
original budget proposal, social               _"%              34% _"
programs accounted for 61 percent of         .9
nonsalary expenditures; in the revised
proposal, these programs account for                              .
66 percent of a smaller total.
Original            Revised
43.   Protected Programs. The
protected programs are summarized               1  Health     Social Assistance
poetdprograms are summarized                   Education   *Other
above in Table 8. Annex 2 describes                LaborlFAT
them in detail. They are also listed in
Table 10, which also includes the
budget figures. Within the overall
budgetary framework described above, this subset of protected programs received special
attention during the adjustment of the budget. The table shows the original 1999 budget
estimate (from August), the revised submission to Congress (from November), the
difference between the two, the difference between the revised budget and the 1998
budget (adjusted for inflation), and the difference between the revised budget and actual
expenditures in 1997.
44.   How the Protected Programs Fared in the 1999 Budget. The overall total for
the protected programs was cut by 7.2 percent in the revised budget, between August and
November. This cut was significantly smaller than for the ministries as a whole, with
total planned expenditures maintained almost at the same level as in 1998 (a drop of 1/2 of
I percent). It is about 34 percent higher than in 1997. Below are brief discussions of the
budget for each part of the protected program.
(a)   SocialAssistance: Overall, social assistance shows a decline from the
original estimate for 1999 but an increase from the previous years. The
largest program in this group, LOAS (line 4 in the table), accounts for 76
percent of the total. It provides cash assistance to the elderly and disabled
who live in extremely poor households. The budget was raised by 13
percent from August, by 23 percent over 1998, and by 15 percent over
1997 in the expectation that a recession will increase demand for the
program. This is a partial response to the need for income support for the
very poor who would be adversely affected by a recession.
Two potentially important programs, Eradication of Child Labor and
Bolsa Escola, are still small and under development (lines 5 and 7). While
15 Presidency, MARE, Transport, Communications, Land Reform, Environment, and Planning
22



Table 10. Real Changes in Budgets for Protected Programs, 1997-1999 Budgets, in 1999 RS Millions
Program                       Original    Revised     Change      Change      Change
1999       1999      Original   from 1998  from 1997
Proposal   Proposal  to Revised
*:.   Social Assistance             1,820.5    1,466.5    -354.0        214.9       87.3
1.   Support forChildren             247.1       176.1      -71.0       -59.5       -76.5
2.   Support for Disabled             64.8       47.1        -17.7       -18.2      -20.7
3.   Support for Elderly             29.5        20.5        -9.0        -8.5        -9.7
4.   Disability and Old Age Pensions    989.2   1,115.9      126.7       341.0      200.6
-LOAS for the Poor
5.   Program for the Eradication of   60.0                   -30.0        1.8        12.3
Child Labor
6.   Support for Adolescents         109.9       22.9       -87.0       -87.3       -72.7
7.   Minimum Income Guarantee        320.0       54.0       -266.0       54.0        54.0
Program -Bolsa Escola
-.   Education                     1,742.5    1,905.2       162.7       403.1       473.4
8.   National Education              436.4       436.4         -         161.9      436.4
Development and Maintenance
Fund -FUNDEF
9.   Money for Primary Schools       114.8       83.8        -31.0      -92.6       -277.4
10.  Provision of Textbooks          295.7       255.5      -40.2        -5.1       -60.4
11.  School Lunch Program            633.0       903.0      270.0       257.3       164.4
12.  Fundescola Program              244.6       210.4      -34.2        103.1      210.4
13.  School Health                    18.0       16.1        -1.9       -11.3       -0.0
-4'   Health                       2,904.3    2,650.1    -254.2         184.7      2,126.1
14.  Child Nutrition                 170.0       149.0      -21.0       -30.0        40.8
15.  Pharmaceutical Assistance Basic    160.0    160.0        -          114.1      160.0
Drug Program -SUS
16.  National Immunization Program   208.6       194.1      -14.5       -24.6       -12.3
17.  Floor on Financing for Basic   1,911.0     1,722.0     -189.0      -34.4       1,722.0
Health Services -PAB
18.  Family Health Program -PSF      407.0       379.0      -28.0        174.0      207.2
19.  Women's Health Program:         47.7        46.0        -1.7        2.4         8.5
Prevention and Early Detection
of Cervical Cancer
*.   Labor                          5,701.0    5,275.0    -426.0        -864.9      151.1
20.  Unemployment Insurance         4,332.9     4,322.9      -10.0      -467.4      223.6
21.  Salary Bonus                    706.1       640.0       -66.1      -299.8       25.1
22.  Professional Qualification      662.0       312.1      -349.9      -55.8       -97.6
Training
*:   TOTAL                         12,168.3   11,296.8    -871.5        -62.2      2,837.8
Note: 1997 and 1998 budgets are inflated to 1999 using inflation rates of 6.9% for 1997 and 2.7% for 1998
23



the Government continues to develop them, it made a decision across the
board not to expand new, pilot programs in this budget cycle. Thus the
seed funding for these two programs should be viewed as investments in
strengthening the social protection system rather than inadequate funding
for ongoing programs that could provide effective and significant
protection today.
The program to eradicate child labor was cut from the original plan but
increased from previous years so that it could be expanded into several
new industries/geographical areas. The Bolsa Escola program was
reduced from the August budget not only because it falls within the new
pilot program classification but also because it has several special features
that would hinder its development in the current economic situation. First,
it requires a significant investment in institutional capacity at the
municipal level. Second, to avoid creating another dependency
relationship of the municipalities on the federal government, Bolsa Escola
also requires a financial contribution from the municipality. Neither
requirement is likely to be successfully managed during the next 12
months of flat or falling tax revenues at all levels of government. Hence
the decision to delay implementation even though the program may at
some point become a key feature of the social protection system.
In the future, the key programs in this group will be the three cash
assistance programs, which are well targeted and relatively inexpensive to
administer. The early results for the child labor and Bolsa Escola
programs also suggest that they are potentially effective.
The remaining programs (lines 1, 2, 3, and 6) will be devolved to lower
levels of government. They were originally zeroed out after the August
budget for this reason, but they were restored at a lower level on the
assumption that other state and municipal governments could not be
expected to fund them adequately in this budget cycle - and they needed
to be protected.
(b)   Education: All of the programs in this group provide funding for a
constellation of inputs at the primary school level - general funds
(FUNDEF), nonsalary funds directly to schools (Money for Primary
Schools and Fundescola), books, school lunches, and school health. As a
whole, funding rose by 9 percent from the original submission, 27 percent
of 1998, and 33 percent over 1997. The increase is heavily influenced by
a large increase in the school lunch program (line 11), which has not been
fully funded in the past years. Recent data suggest that this program is
reasonably well targeted, with most of the benefits available to students in
the bottom three deciles.
Nevertheless, the other programs are considered by educators to be more
important from an educational standpoint. FUNDEF (line 8), which
provides a floor on per-capita funding for primary schools, was fully
24



funded at the level requested by the Ministry of Education, more than
double the 1998 level. The program did not exist in 1997. The Money for
Primary Schools and Fundescola prograns (lines 9 and 12) both provide
funds directly to primary schools for nonsalary inputs, the latter in the
poorer states and the former in the richer states. Taken together, they
show a fall from the original projections for 1999, a small increase from
1998, and a decline (but better targeting) from 1997. Because the
FUJNDEF program is, however, sensitive to the per capita "floor" used, the
expected shortfall in state revenues, and how and when students are
counted, the Government has committed itself to monitoring the program
carefully and making necessary adjustments to maintain it.1 The other
two programs, textbooks (line 10) and school health (line 13) generally
show declines. However, these programs provide inputs that are going to
be increasingly substituted by cash assistance from FUNDEF and
Fundescola, so the declines need to be taken within the context of higher
spending (which more than replace the declines), better targeting, and
local implementation afforded by these two new programs.
(c)   Health: The protected health expenditures show a 9 percent decline from
the original plans for 1999 but a substantial increase over the previous
years. The two key programs, PAB (line 17, provides a floor on spending
for primary care) and PSF (line 18, improves the effectiveness of
delivering primary health services), show a decline from the August
budget plan, but they have been increased by 7 percent over 1998.
Funding for PSF nearly doubled relative to 1997; PAB did not exist in
1997.
The child nutrition, pharmaceutical assistance, and immunization
programs (lines 14, 15, and 16) are complementary to the two general
primary health programs. Taken together, as they should, these five
programs have fallen from the original August estimate but represent a
substantial increase in funding over 1998 and 1997 for primary health
services. Because of PAB and PSF, these services are better targeted and
have new financial incentives to improve quality and effectiveness.
Finally, the prevention of cervical cancer for women program (line 19)
shows an increase from the previous years. It is protected as an important
follow-up by the Government to a campaign to improve knowledge and
change the behavior of women in managing this disease.
(d)   Labor: The labor programs are dominated by unemployment insurance
(line 20), which accounts for 82 percent of the total. Overall they show
increases relative to 1997 but cuts relative to the initial estimate for 1999
and the budget for 1998. However, unemployment insurance is strongly
counter-cyclical, is a well-financed entitlement, and eligibility has been
16 The allocation in the 1999 budget for FUNDEF is R$436 million, R$162 million more than in the
previous year. The floor established for per capita expenditures was R$315 in 1998.
25



expanded.'7 Consequently, actual expenditures will increase
automatically in a counter-cyclical manner, notwithstanding the allocation;
so the amount provided in the budget is likely to be a significant
underestimate of actual expenditures over the year.
45.   Summary. The federal government's revised budget proposal protects social
sector ministries for the upcoming year relative to the rest of the Government's program.
It accomplished this by cutting back on investment projects by nearlv half and by cutting
regular activities by about 11 percent relative to the earlier budget. Within the social
sectors and social assistance programs, further protection was provided for a set of well
targeted programs in basic health (benefiting women and children in particular); primary
education; social assistance programs aimed at poor families, children, and the aged; and
counter-cyclical programs protecting the incomes of formal sector workers and providing
training for any workers who may be laid off.
46.   Based on both the objectives of the Government and analysis of the budgetary
decisions made in revising the original budget estimates for 1999, the appraisal missions
from the Bank and the IDB concluded that the Brazilian Government has prepared and
protected well this program of targeted interventions. Key elements of this social
protection system did not exist two or three years ago and are the result of important
policy changes at the federal level. The Government's success in maintaining and
increasing expenditures on the protected programs is in sharp contrast to cuts across the
board in other programs.
III. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.  Bank Assistance in the Social Sectors and Social Protection
47.   This proposed loan has been developed within the context of a strong program of
Bank projects and economic and sector work in rural poverty and the social sectors.
(a)   Lending Program: The Bank has a portfolio of commitments of US$0.7
billion in productive agricultural investments to reduce poverty. In
education the Bank supervises a portfolio of US$1.2 billion that is focused
on improving the quality and efficiency of basic education programs in
poorer areas of the country. In health, a portfolio of $0.7 billion supports
reforms in health financing, the delivery of basic health services in the
Northeast, and support for a key public health intervention, AIDS control.
Over 60 percent of disbursements in FY98 and 80 percent of new
commitments projected for FY99 (excluding the Support Program) are in
poverty-related interventions in education, health, and water and
sanitation.
17 Normal unemployment benefits of 5 payments during the first 12 months after the loss of a job have
been extended to a maximum of 3 additional payments between the 13th through 18th months.
26



(b)   Analytical Work: The Government/Bank dialogue in poverty, labor, and
the social sectors covers a broad range of issues in the social sectors,
poverty, and labor. The policy matrices in Annex 3 summarize the main
issues in each sector, high-priority analytical needs, policy options being
considered, and the status of the Brazil/World Bank dialogue in each area.
Recently completed work includes a poverty assessment; a review of
expenditures at the federal, state, and municipal levels in the social
sectors; and a review of the impact of Bank-financed projects in the health
sector' S. On-going work includes an update of poverty statistics and the
incidence of public social expenditures using the latest round of a Living
Standards Measurement Survey, a review of poverty reduction policies in
the Northeast, a review of developmental prospects and poverty issues in
Rio de Janeiro, and a dialogue on labor issues that includes a series of
joint analytical papers and seminars over the past year. In higher
education, discussions and analytical work are just getting underway in
December 1998, on a range of issues that includes quality, enrollments,
institutional strengthening, and finding mechanisms.
A considerable amount of analytical work has now been done on poverty
and social development, and a strategy has emerged that has guided the
development of the Bank's portfolio: support for macroeconomic stability
and labor-intensive growth; support for spreading the benefits of education
and raising its quality as a core investment; support for basic health, water,
and sanitation services that benefit the poor; and market-oriented land
reform policies.
Nevertheless, while much is known in a general way about spending on
social assistance programs in Brazil, perhaps the area where the analytical
base and policy dialogue is weakest is on specific steps to be taken in
strengthening the social protection system. That includes making sense of
the broad array of social assistance programs including their coverage,
efficiency, the gaps that exist, and how to fill the gaps in a decentralized
budget-constrained environment. Coincident with the strengthening of the
social protection system in Brazil, the Government will review options to
improve the efficiency and targeting of selected programs. As part of the
development of this multi-loan package to support this effort, The World
Bank and the IDB will be part of the technical dialogue on these issues.
B.   Coordination with Multilateral Institutions
48.   The policy reforms supported under this operation are consistent with the IMF
coordinated Multilateral Support Program for Brazil, which includes the World Bank, the
18 World Bank (1995) "Brazil: A Poverty Assessment," Report No. 14323. World Bank (1998) "Brazil -
Fiscal Adjustment and Social Spending: The Case of Education and Health in Four Brazilian States,"
Report No. BR-I 7763. World Bank (1998) "Brazil: The Brazil Health System Impact Evaluation
Report," Report No. 18142. The following reports on labor are under preparation: "Brazil: Critical
Unemployment Issues," September 25, 1998, and "Brazil: The Labor Reform Agenda," May 1999.
27



IDB, the USA, Japan and other bilateral donors. Bank staffjoined early IMF discussions
with the Brazil team and have provided IMF staff with projections and working papers
for this project.
49.   The IDB has been a partner in the development of this operation. This US$250
million S/SECAL was jointly appraised with a parallel IDB 12-month, 3-tranche loan of
US$2 billion. The collaboration of the World Bank and the IDB has resulted in a
complementary set of operations, with the following characteristics:
(a)   Appraisal: The IDB and World Bank jointly appraised and assisted in the
refinement of the Government's program of protected social expenditures.
The actions supported by this loan and the first tranche of the IDB loan on
the program of protected expenditures are virtually identical. A single
Letter of Sector Policy has been prepared by the Government for both
institutions (see Annex 5). The IDB matrix of conditionality is attached in
Annex 4'9
(b)   Supervision: Although the World Bank loan is a single-tranche operation,
World Bank staff will participate in the supervision of the IDB loan. The
IDB loan includes second and third tranche release conditions that are
predicated on the Government's providing evidence that the agreed
protected expenditures are taking place. In the final version of the IDB
matrix, there will also be physical targets for the main programs, although
these will not be decided until the IDB negotiations.
(c)   Analytical Work: In addition, the IDB tranches are conditioned on the
Government's carrying out analytical work to evaluate the effectiveness
and equity of the protected programs. This is the same analysis mentioned
in the World Bank's policy matrices in Annex 3.
(d)   Follow-up in the year 2000: The IDB loan extends to the end of calendar
1999. The final tranche includes continued protection of expenditures for
these programs in the year 2000 budget. The second World Bank loan
will be appraised as the IDB loan is ending, allowing the two institutions
to continue collaborative support for the Government as it strengthens its
social protection system based in part on the analytical work completed
during 1999. In this manner, the Brazil/IDB/World Bank dialogue in
improving the social protection system will continue into the year 2001,
with continuous analysis and engagement by all three parties.
9 The IDB matrix is not the final version, because The World Bank loan is being considered by its Board
prior to negotiations with the IDB.
28



IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.  Loan Objectives and Description
The Loan Package
50. The Overall Support Program. The proposed special sector adjustment loan is
part of the World Bank's program of special support for Brazil's Program of Fiscal
Stabilization and Reforms. It forms part of a coordinated effort (see "Framework Paper:
Special Program of Support for Brazil," SecM98-943). The Government's fiscal
program is designed to address the structural causes of its fiscal deficit and to restrain the
growth of public debt, in order to both strengthen market confidence and permit a
sustainable reduction in interest rates. The proceeds of the loan will help Brazil finance
its current account deficit in an orderly fashion, avoiding needless dislocation.
51.   The entire package of loans in the US$4.5 billion Support Program is
complementary to this Social Protection loan because it will assist the Government to
widen the "headroom" at all levels needed to make faster progress in improving the
efficacy of social sector programs and to improve the level of social protection provided
to the population. The Social Security reform would strengthen by far the largest and
most costly part of the social protection system. Putting social security on a sounder
fiscal basis would improve the protection afforded to the whole population, across
generations. That reform would also help to equalize the costs and benefits of pension
coverage for Government and private sector employees, reducing the relative costs of
compensation in the public sector and increasing the flexibility of public sector labor
markets. This is an important consideration in improving the efficiency of provision of
health and education services, which account for the majority of public employment. The
proposed Administrative Reform would create incentives for the Brazilian states, which
implement almost all public social programs, to achieve a more optimal mix of inputs
that would translate into higher quality and more effective services.
52.   The Social Protection Loan Program. This specific operation would be the first
of program of two special sector adjustment loans (S/SECALS) that will support the
development and strengthening of Brazil's system of Social Protection over a two-year
period. This first loan of US$252,520,000, would be single-tranched and disbursed upon
Board approval. It would support the first phase of the reform program, which includes
the following elements:
(a)   Prior Actions to Build the Elements of a Federal Social Protection
System: Over the past 3 years, the Government has developed an
innovative set of programs at the federal level to decentralize the
implementation of social programs, to place a floor on basic education and
health spending to reduce inter-state and inter-municipality inequalities, to
develop institutional devices to coordinate and focus assistance to poor
communities from a variety of programs, to improve assistance for the
elderly and disabled who do not qualify for pensions, and to pilot test new
29



types of social assistance that create an incentive for poor parents to keep
their children in school.
(b)   Significant Further Improvements to the Social Protection System
Accomplished During the Past 12 Months: In the past 12 months, the
Borrower has further strengthened its social protection system by
modifying the unemployment insurance program to provide additional
support in an emergency, expanding school nutrition programs by making
it easier for the poorest states to participate fully, developing federal
programs to support nonsalary expenditures in basic health services and
primary education, and allowing temporary suspension of labor contracts
with the provision of opportunities for retraining of workers. The latter
may not be seen as an improvement to social protection, but in fact it helps
to improve the functioning of labor markets while providing protection to
the individual workers who might be displaced.
(c)   Effective Use of this Strengthened Social Protection System During
Fiscal Adjustment: In the face of economic crisis that began in August
1998, the Borrower has used it social protection system to maintain a base
level of support to the population during the period of fiscal adjustment. It
has prepared a core program of protected social expenditures, and has
protected these programs in the face of severe federal budget cuts. It will
put in place a system to monitor these expenditures as well as physical
indicators of program performance.
53.   This first loan supports these reforms and coincides with a related three-tranche
IDB operation, which will provide a framework in 1999 under which the IDB and the
Bank will monitor the agreed social expenditure program.
54.   A second, larger World Bank adjustment loan in FY00 would assist the
Government to further strengthen its system of social protection, based on the
Government's on-going review of these policies and specific analytical work to be
carried out collaboratively with the Bank, much of which also appears as tranche
conditions in the IDB loan. The second loan would include support for further reforms to
address the effectiveness of the protected programs, the adequacy of expenditures for
these programs, modification of the design of the programs to provide a better safety net
of support for poor households outside the formal sector, and how to fill gaps that still
exist in the system in a fiscally neutral way. In addition, it is anticipated that the second
S/SECAL will, like this one, include expenditure targets for the protected programs.
55.   The key links between these two operations are the following:
(a)   Expenditure Management: Although the first loan is a one-tranche
operation, the Government sets forth in its letter of sector policy its
commitment to use the option of changing expenditures by 15 percent (or
30 percent, as proposed to Congress) over the course of the year to provide
further protection to these programs and increase their counter-cyclical
effect, as necessary, as the economic situation unfolds.
30



(b)   Monitoring Protected Programs: The Government will use a system
already developed for Brasil Acao to track protected expenditures and to
monitor key output indicators. The Bank and the IDB will also monitor
expenditures through supervision of the multi-tranched IDB loan.
(c)   Improving Income Supportfor Informal Sector Workers: The
Government commits itself in the Letter of Sector Policy to pay close
attention to this problem during 1999 and to take emergency action as
necessary. This concern will be the main focus of the dialogue between
the Government and the Bank for strengthening the social protection
system under the second loan in this program.
(d)   Selected Reviews of Social Programs: The Government has presented a
broad program of analytical work that will be completed over the next
year to review social programs for efficiency, targeting, accountability,
and adequacy. Many of these studies will be supported by existing Bank
and IDB loans for the Ministries of Education, Health, and Labor. In
addition, a technical assistance loan in the Ministry of Pensions and Social
Assistance will finance the analytical work in that ministry. The Bank
will also work closely with the Government to support its reviews of
options for income support in the informal sector, to evaluate the potential
of promising new programs like Bolsa Escola, to assist in possible
expansion of the Program to Eradicate Child Labor, and to develop
options to improve the equity of financing in higher education and in the
distribution of funds for health care.
B.  Policy Actions Taken Prior To Board Presentation to Protect Critical
Programs During Adjustment
56.   Macroeconomic Framework. This is a single tranche loan based on reforms
achieved prior to Board approval. Satisfactory macroeconomic performance
demonstrated by carrying out the program of fiscal and structural reforms as described in
the Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 5) is a fundamental condition of the loan.
57.   Reform and Strengthening of the Social Protection System. Significant
improvements in the Borrower's social protection system have resulted from a well
conceived set of policy changes implemented by the Borrower during the past three
years. A number of these reforms and innovations in strengthening the social protection
system that have been initiated in the past 12 months are the specific conditions of this
loan (see the policy matrices in Annex 3 for more details of the reforms by subsector).
These conditions include the adoption or expansion of social protection programs
through, inter alia, the following measures:
(a)   Social Assistance: Implementation on a pilot basis of the Bolsa Escola
program to provide financial support to poor families that keep their
children in primary school. The program for the Eradication of Child
Labor has also been extended to new industries and geographical areas in
Brazil.
31



(b)   Education: Brazil has begun implementing a program to provide
financial support for non-salary expenditures directly to schools, known as
"Dinheiro na Escola" (Money to Schools); and increased by about 40%
the coverage of school lunch program (Alimentaqdo Escolar) by reducing
barriers to the participation of poorer municipalities.
(c)   Health: A new program (Piso de Atenqdo Basica) is transferring
resources to the municipalities for use on ambulatory care, according to a
per-capita formula; and a program to improve family health (Programa de
Sauide da Familia) has been developed and implemented.
(d)   Labor: The Government created, in November 1998, supplemental
unemployment benefits for formal sector workers who have been
unemployed for a period of more than 12 months. The supplement
consists of up to three additional payments to be made until the 18th
month of unemployment. Legislation allowing temporary suspension of
labor contracts with the provision of opportunities for retraining of
workers has been passed.
58.   Protected Social Expenditures. Most importantly, the federal Executive has
submitted to Congress a budget proposal that preserves budgetary allocations in 1999 that
fuind the protected social programs listed in Table 11. This budget was prepared in
October and submitted to Congress in early November.
C.  The Second Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan
59.   The reforms supported by the proposed loan constitute only Brazil's first phase of
reforms to the social protection system. The proposed two-loan sequence is intended to
allow time for further analysis and improvement of the system of social protection.
60.   The Second Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan would be prepared
along with the analytical work to be completed by the Government with the Bank's
collaboration, and the monitoring of the first program that will take place under the IDB
loan. The second loan would support the 2000 and 2001 budgets for these programs as
well as policy and programmatic improvements of a longer term nature developed by the
Government and agreed during appraisal of the second loan.
61.   The Government is committed to carrying out analytical work and reforms on
specific aspects of the social protection system. These are outlined in the Letter of Sector
Policy (Annex 5) and are summarized in the World Bank (see Annex 3) and IDB (see
Annex 4) matrices. The major areas of focus are summarized below:
(a)   Social Assistance: The federal government proposes to continue to
reform its social assistance programs to decentralize them, improve
evaluation of them, strengthen the federal role in compensating for
inequalities across states, and improve means testing.
32



Table 11. Protected Programs in the 1999 Budget
Social Assistance                                    Budget Item(s)  Proposed R$
Millions
(1)   Support for Children                                     2593          247.0
(2)   Support for Disabled                                     2595          47.1
(3)   Support for Elderly                                      2596           20.5
(4)   Disability and Old Age Pensions (LOAS)                   4458         1,115.9
(5)   Program for the Eradication of Child Labor               4640           30.0
(6)   Support for Adolescents                                  4911           22.9
(7)   Minimum Income Guarantee Program (Bolsa Escola)          4979           54.0
(8)  National Education Development and Maintenance Fund       4537          436.4
(FUNDEF)
(9)   Money for Primary Schools                                4528           83.8
(10) Provision of Textbooks                                    2293          255.5
(11)  School Lunch Program                                     2487          903.0
(12) Fundescola Program                                        3499          210.4
(13)  School Health                                            2298           16.2
(14) Child Nutrition                                           4432          149.0
(15) Phannaceutical Assistance Basic Drug Program (SUS)        4436          160.0
(16) National Immunization Program                          4436,4439        194.1
(17)  Floor on Financing for Basic Health Services (PAB)       4438          1,722.0
(18)  Family Health Program (PSF)                              4438          379.0
(19)  Women's Health Program: Prevention and Early Detection  4438, 3447      46.0
of Cervical Cancer
(20) Unemployment Insurance                                    2131         4,322.9
(21)  Salary Bonus                                             2543          640.0
(22) Professional Qualification Training                       4477          312.1
TOTAL                                                                 11,367.8
An extensive review of issues in social assistance will be financed under
the technical assistance loan to support the Ministry of Pensions and
Social Assistance (described in the Social Security Reform S/SECAL
documentation) in preparation for the next Social Protection loan. To
generate a set of options and recommendations for improvement of means
testing in social assistance programs, the ministry will review options and
recommendations for improved techniques for programs that have income-
based eligibility criteria, analyze the implementation of means-tested
programs, and review of comparative experiences from within and outside
of Brazil. A similar effort will be undertaken to improve the enforcement
and audits of compliance with the eligibility criteria for social assistance
programs, focused particularly on LOAS and rural pension benefits that
are not directly linked to beneficiary contributions. Under an IDB
technical assistance program with the Casa Civil, the Ministry of Pensions
and Social Assistance will develop a plan to improve management
information systems for the protected programs and provide training for
local managers of the protected programs.
(b)    Education: There will be an evaluation of the impact of the FUNDEF and
book-distribution programs in terms of both impact on the poor and
educational outcomes. This evaluation has already started and will be
33



funded in part through existing loans implemented by the Ministry of
Education.
(c)   Health: An evaluation of the impact of policies for distributing federal
funds for health services to states and municipalities will be undertaken.
The aim of the review will be to define options for improving equity in
these transfers and to improve the incentives created for higher quality and
more cost-effective services. The evaluation will be supported under the
World Bank/IDB-financed REFORSUS project.
(d)   Labor: The federal government expects to propose modifications to the
Constitution to increase the flexibility of labor relations and to improve
the effectiveness of training programs. There is an on-going evaluation of
the targeting and effectiveness of training programs (PLANFOR) in terms
of poverty and employment effects. This study is to be completed in
December 1999.
62.   The Bank has offered to assist in addressing some of these questions, especially
those that in the short run could produce changes that would strengthen the social
protection system significantly. A review of the fiscal impact of the Bolsa Escola
program is already underway, with additional work likely in 1999 connected to the
program to combat child labor. Financial support to review and quantify how the various
social assistance programs interact at the household level to provide protection against
risks (particularly for those households outside the formal sector) is available. Loan
preparation funds for the second S/SECAL will also provide some support for analytical
work.
D.  Disbursement, Monitoring, and Auditing
63.   Disbursement. Loan disbursements would be made under simplified
SAL/SECAL procedures. The Borrower would be required to open and maintain a
Deposit Account in its Central Bank. As funds are released, the Borrower will submit a
simplified withdrawal application against which the Bank will disburse the loan proceeds
into the Deposit Account for the Borrower's use. The Borrower is expected to use the
counterpart funds stemming from the loan proceeds to assist in financing the Federal
budget. Since Brazil's fiscal performance will be vital to the success of the proposed
loan - as well as the Bank's Support Program - the Bank will be reviewing periodically
with the Borrower overall budget performance.
64.   Monitoring the Program. Given the single tranche nature of this loan, tracking
expenditures and output has been greatly facilitated by coordination with the IDB. The
exact approach to monitoring the Government's support for the selected programs will be
finalized during negotiations with the IDB in early January. The general, agreed
approach will be to adapt a system already used successfully to track expenditures for the
Brazil em A do program. In brief, coordinators for each of the 22 protected programs
will request authorization for funds directly to an overall coordinator in the Secretariat for
Planning and Evaluation (SPA/MPO). The coordinator will provide the Treasury with an
order to disburse the authorized funds directly to the manager with the restriction that the
34



funds cannot be used on any other program. Subsequent requests for funds must be
accompanied by reports on the amounts already received and how they were spent.
Monthly reports will be generated, and proof of achieving expenditure targets will be
tranche conditions of the IDB loan.
65.   Monitoring of physical, or output, indicators for each program will be tracked by
choosing only one key indicator per program. For the "Money for School" Program, for
example, the date at which the Parents' Association receives the money is likely to be the
indicator. These indicators will also be agreed during the IDB negotiations in January
and will be monitored during quarterly supervision of the loan.20
66.   Auditing. Independent auditors acceptable to the Bank may audit the Deposit
Account. Copies of the Deposit account audits will be submitted to the Bank no later
than four months after the date of the Bank's request for such audits. The loan Closing
Date would be June 30, 1999. The Government will provide a report to the Bank on the
execution of this first loan within 6 months of closing, and the IDB will require reports
for each tranche release condition.
E.  Impact, Benefits, and Risks
67.   Social Impact. The "Framework Paper" (SecM98-943) circulated to the Board
on November 25, 1998, analyzes the impact, benefits, and risks of the Bank's Support
Program for Brazil. The social impact, in particular, is expected to be significant and
positive. For this loan in particular, the social impact is the whole focus. It is designed to
assist Brazil to strengthen its system that protects the population against social and
economic risks. Protecting well targeted programs will help Brazil maintain the
substantial gains that have been made in the last four years in reducing poverty and
inequality. It will help maintain human capital investments in education and health from
which the poor will disproportionately benefit. It will provide income support for formal
sector workers who lose their jobs and for the poorest families carrying for disabled and
elderly Brazilians. It will provide strong incentives to lower levels of government to
keep children in school. This is a combination of interventions that provide both
immediate and long-term benefits to society.
68.   Environmental Impact. The program is not expected to have any environmental
impact. It is ranked as C for environmental purpose.
69.   Benefits. The primary beneficiaries of this loan are Brazil's poor and vulnerable
- children in poor families, retired and disabled people in poor families, families needing
regular access to free or low-cost basic health services, children attending public primary
schools, and adults who may experience bouts of unemployment during a period of
economic uncertainty.
70.   Risks. The expenditures to be protected as conditions of this loan have already
been agreed among the Government, the Bank, and the IDB. However, there is some risk
20 Monitoring of expenditures and outputs in future years will be facilitated by a program budget and
reporting system to be introduced in 2000.
35



that the budget eventually emerging from Congress may be different from the
Government's proposal. While the likelihood of this outcome is small, if it happens, it is
more likely to result in an increase rather than a decrease in spending for these protected
programs. The Executive branch also has the power to shift expenditures within certain
limits later in the year, and it has proven its commitment to these programs during the last
several years and during the revision of the August budget submission that was finished
in early November. There is also the risk that the protected expenditures will not actually
be implemented as agreed. However, this risk is mitigated by (a) agreement on special
arrangements that will be made to monitor and enforce expenditure targets for the
protected programs and (b) the IDB's tranched social protection loan will be linked to the
same protected programs. Two-thirds of the IDB's US$2 billion loan is tied to achieving
the agreed expenditure targets. Bank staff will participate in the supervision of the IDB
loan, just as both institutions jointly appraised this S/SECAL with the larger IDB loan.
The IDB will also collaborate with the Bank on the follow-up loan to maintain continuity.
71.   There is a further risk that the programs selected for protection may not be fully
effective. This issue will be addressed both through physical targets to be monitored
under the IDB loan and through the agreed evaluations of some of the programs.
72.   Despite significant improvements in the Brazilian system of social protection in
the past three years, a gap still remains in the incomplete income support available during
a recession for informal sector workers, the self-employed, and economically inactive
poor. Analytical work by the Government over the next few months, with support as
necessary by the Bank and the IDB, will explore options for strengthening this part of the
system over the next two years.
73.   In the event of a much more serious recession than is anticipated, expenditures for
some of the protected programs are automatically counter-cyclical and will compensate.
For others, additional review and interim action might be necessary. The Government of
Brazil is committed to reviewing the adequacy of expenditures in such a situation, and
the Bank and IDB have agreed to support the effort.
IV. RECOMMENDATION
78.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
December 15, 1998
Washington, D.C.
Attachments
36



ANNEX 1- CURRENT STATUS OF BRAZIL'S SOCIAL SECTOR PROGRAMS AND RECENT
INNOVATIONS
A.  Social Assistance Programs
Background
74.   The Brazilian Government's principal strategies for poverty reduction include:
(a)    Pursuit of economic growth and economic stability, coupled with labor
market reforms to reduce poverty through increased employment.
(b)   Improvement of the coverage and quality of universal social services, in
particular education and health, and ensuring that these services
effectively reach the poor.
(c)    Support for expanding physical assets that provide services to the poor,
including water and sanitation, housing, and land reform.
(d)   Provision of limited income support, directed in particular at the elderly,
disabled, and children in families unable to achieve a minimum standard
of living.
75.   The Government is undertaking reforms of its social assistance programs. The
main objectives are: (a) improved managerial efficiency of program implementation to
reduce costs and political misuse, (b) improved targeting of social investment and
transfer programs, (c) better quality, and (d) reducing the gap in the social protection
system without contributing to increased dependency and the creation of political
clienteles. Specific reforms in Social Assistance have included the separation of benefits
not based on contributions from the Social Security System, the decentralization of
program implementation to states and municipalities to improve targeting and efficiency,
and professionalization of the implementation of the programs. Other reforms are aimed
at improving the coordination and targeting of existing programs and small-scale testing
of new programs that, when fully developed, would improve protection for poor children.
These reforms and new programs are briefly described below.
Comunidade Soliddria
76.   The Comunidade Soliddria program was created in 1995 in the Office of the
President to coordinate funds and activities in 16 poverty programs implemented by five
different federal ministries, initially in 302 of the poorest municipalities.2' The program
expanded to 1,368 municipalities in 1997, with a total of R$2.5 billion channeled to the
communities. The goal of the program is to better coordinate developmental and poverty
21 The 16 programs are located in the Ministries of Agriculture, Education, Planning, Health, and Labor.
They are oriented to six areas: health, nutrition, early childhood development (pre-school),
agricultural development, housing and sanitation, and improving employment opportunities.
37



programs to these communities, to better organize the communities, and to create civic
partnerships that will increase the effectiveness of the programs. Comunidade Soliddria
has evolved over three years to begin topping up some programs in the target
communities (e.g., school lunches). The program estimates that it has contributed in the
targeted communities to reduced malnutrition, a drop in the infant mortality rate of 43
percent between 1994 and 1997, and a sharp reduction in children not attending school.
Education of Child Labor
77.   In 1996, the Government started a new initiative to eradicate child labor, targeted
to specific industries that are heavy users of child labor. This targeting helps to limit the
budgetary costs but also helps to make the program more effective. To reduce the
available supply of children to the labor market, it provides a family support payment
called Bolsa Crianca (Children's Scholarship) of up to R$50 per child per month for
families who take their 7-to-14 year-old children out of the workplace and put them into
school. Municipalities receive an additional payment for tutoring, feeding and
recreational services for the same group of children so that they are occupied in
educational activities even after school. To reduce demand, there is a complementary
effort to enforce child labor laws strictly in the targeted industries. This program seems
to be well implemented, successful in the attainment of its specific objective, and it is
being expanded.
Bolsa Escola or Renda Minima (School Scholarships and Minimum Income Program)
78.   A recent law authorizes federal co-financing of municipal minimum income
programs that encourage school attendance. For municipalities poorer than the respective
state average, the federal government will pay up to 50 percent of a support payment
(Bolsa Escola) to low-income families that maintain all their children in school. This
program is modeled after similar programs in Brasilia and several municipalities around
the country. It is administered by the Ministry of Education, and is being inaugurated on
a small scale in 1999 with funding of R$54 million. When fully implemented, the
program is expected to reach three million families at a cost of R$1.5 billion. This is a
new program, initially being implemented on a small scale to create administrative
capacity and test its feasibility nationally.
Decentralized Administration and Improved Accountability for Social Assistance
Programs
79.   In the past, social assistance programs were inefficiently and centrally
administered through a federal agency (Legido Brasileira de Assistencia). This agency
has been abolished and replaced by a new system - now gradually being implemented -
of planning, decision making, and funding for social assistance at the three levels of
Government. Each level has a social assistance council with participation from civil
society, a secretariat, a plan, and a fund for the provision of social assistance services. As
states and municipalities build up the structure of the new system (council, secretariat,
plan, fund), they receive the funds from the respective higher level of Government for the
decentralized provision of services. Funds are usually also provided by lower levels of
38



Government, and services are provided in collaboration with civil society. The idea is to
move funding decisions to the local level, to increase participation of civil society, and to
increase transparency in these programs. Social assistance programs to support children,
adolescents, and the aged through charitable organizations are managed through this
system.
B.  Education Strategy and Issues
Background
80.   Brazil's Constitution requires the federal government to spend 18 percent of its
revenues on education, with at least 30 percent of this spending on primary education
(first through eighth grade). In addition, 25 percent of all state and municipal revenues
collected at those two levels must be applied to education. The states and the federal
government are for the most part close to achieving these constitutional mandates.
81.   A corollary to the local financing for education is that per-student educational
expenditures in Brazil are highly unequal. The most generously endowed municipalities
spend up to seven times the national average per student; those least endowed spend no
more than a quarter of the national average, or 28 times less per student than the
wealthiest municipalities.
Performance of the Education System
82.   Decades of inequality in funding and low priority of education in the policy
agenda are reflected in the weak performance of the Brazilian education system.
(a)   The average years of study in Brazil is approximately 6 years, among the
lowest in the Latin American region.
(b)   Less than 30 percent of the population has completed eighth grade.
(c)   Each year, a third of students from primary school22 through secondary
school are not promoted to the subsequent grade level.
(d)   Less than 30 percent of the population between ages 15 and 17 is enrolled
in secondary school.
(e)   According to National Assessments, 32 percent of fourth graders in Brazil
are unable to make a literal interpretation and identify the main idea of a
simple text. Twenty-seven percent of eighth grade students in Brazil are
unable to read and comprehend longer texts, identify relationships
between primary and secondary facts, understand punctuation marks, and
interpret simple, practical texts. Results in mathematics are just as low.
22 The Brazilian terminology for primary school is the "fundamental cycle," up to the eighth grade. In this
document the term primary school, will be used.
39



(f)   Almost 18 percent of all teachers in non-urban areas in Brazil have not
completed primary school.
(g)   In higher education less than 6 percent of the age cohort is enrolled.
(h)   The costs of the publicly-fumded higher education system are high by
international standards, virtually all of the benefits go to families in the
upper 40 percent of the income distribution, and the costs borne by the
families are insignificant.
83.  In the 1 990s, Brazil has begun to make impressive improvements in education
indicators. Two key performance indicators are those that measure efficiency (as
indicated by promotion rates) and coverage (as measured by enrollment rates). The
primary school promotion rate increased by 10 percentage points (from 57 to 67 percent)
over the past ten years. The improvement in coverage is even more striking: the gross
primary school enrollment rate increased by 15 percent nationally, a significant gain in
itself, but the poorer Northeast states experienced a gain of 30 percent. In 1995, the net
enrollment rate reached 90 percent in primary school, and the Government estimates that
it is 95 percent today.
84.   At the secondary level, system performance also improved. Enrollment rates
increased by 15 percent overall during the 1 990s. The number of students graduating
from secondary school increased by over 75 percent over the period. However the net
enrollment rate at the secondary level reached just 19 percent in 1995.
85.   The federal government in the past two years has developed two instruments,
FUNDEF and PMDE, that give it an ability to target education funds to poorer states and
directly to schools.
National Education Development and Maintenance Fund
86.  In December 1997, Congress amended the Constitution to reduce disparities in the
financing of primary education across states and municipalities. The constitutional
amendment and law creating the National Education Development and Maintenance
Fund (FUNDEF) require that the 15 percent of total municipal and state revenues
eannarked for education be allocated in such a way that each state guarantees a R$3 15
spending floor for each student. In the poorest states, such as Ceara, Maranhao, and Para,
where 15 percent of total state and municipal revenues per student falls below the R$3 15
floor, the federal government adds funds to bring spending up to the floor. The net result
of this "topping-up" is that the federal government is helping the poorest municipalities
spend at least a minimal amount on primary schooling.
Program of Maintenance and Development of Schools
87.   A second major initiative of the federal government is to promote school
autonomy, thereby enabling schools to better fulfill their responsibility to parents and
children. For this purpose, the federal government introduced in 1996 the Program of
Maintenance and Development of Schools (PMDE), known today as "Money to the
40



School" ("Dinheiro na Escola"). This initiative provides money for nonsalary
expenditures directly to the school, ranging from approximately $7 to $12 per student in
1998, with the larger amount going to schools in poorer regions. An even larger amount
goes to municipalities in the Comunidade Soliddria program. In 1998 approximately
R$250 million was transferred under this program. Transfers are made possible primarily
through agreements between the municipality/state and the federal governments,
authorizing the federal government to transfer funds to the school bank account. The
Salario Educa,do, a constitutionally earmarked payroll tax, finances a share of this
program. In the budget, this program and Fundescola perform basically the same
function, with the latter funding the program in the poorer states.
C.  Health Strategy and Issues
Background
88.   Brazil's Federal Ministry of Health is responsible for financing health care.
Brazil is one of the first countries in Latin America to move health care management
entirely out of the social security system. By itself or through its subsidiary agencies, the
Fundaqdo Nacional da Saude (National Health Foundation) and the Funda,do Osvaldo
Cruz (the Osvaldo Cruz Foundation), the ministry also conducts epidemiological
surveillance, fights infectious diseases, purchases "strategic" drugs, runs public health
campaigns, builds health infrastructure, and acquires and distributes vaccines.
89.   The Brazilian health care system, partly by historical accident and partly by
design, separates financing from the provision of services. The MOH-administered SUS
contracts out the large majority of inpatient care and a substantial portion of outpatient
services to a network of private and philanthropic hospitals, clinics, and other facilities.
All told, the public sector manages and owns only about 30 percent of the hospital beds it
supports.
90.   The Constitution of 1988 requires municipalities to assume responsibility for the
provision of medical care, with states and the federal government providing financing
and technical support. Since 1987, the Ministry of Health has been gradually
decentralizing control of publicly owned facilities to states and municipalities. A total of
450 municipalities with the highest degree of autonomy permitted under Brazilian law
have attained those powers during the last two and a half years. The remaining 4,600
municipalities receive Piso de Aten,do Basico (PAB) funds for primary health care
(explained below).
91.   The Government reimburses public, private, and philanthropic hospitals on the
basis of a fee schedule called the Autoriza,do da Interna,do Hospitalar (AIH).
Depending on the degree of autonomy of a given municipality, the federal government
either uses the municipal (or state) health secretariat as an administrative vehicle for
contracting services from private and decentralized health facilities, or it transfers a block
grant for hospital services to the municipality, which then pays the providers.
Municipalities are required to reimburse providers at rates at least equal to the AIH
tables.
41



92.  In summary, Brazil's health care system embodies principles that in general
promote efficiency - prospective payment, decentralization, the separation of financing
from provision. Many implementation problems have been encountered in this reform,
and there are many years ahead of difficult work for the MOH in fully developing and
adequately monitoring the system As in education, the key historical problem for the
federal government is that health expenditures tend to exacerbate income inequalities
through budgets based on historical patterns of resource allocation and existing facilities.
Two key reforms, described below, have attempted to address this problem in the last few
years.
Piso de Aten f do Bdsico, Minimum Level of Spending on Basic Health Services
93.  It is widely recognized that cost-effective interventions are underutilized in the
Brazilian health care system. To promote efficiency, the federal government decided in
1996 to turn over responsibility for basic ambulatory care to municipalities. For that
purpose, the federal government now transfers resources to the municipalities according
to a per-capita formula, it requires the municipalities to spend a minimum per-capita
amount on ambulatory care, called the Piso de AtenVdo Bdsico (Basic Assistance
Minimum, or PAB), which was between R$ 1 O-R$18 in 1998. The variation reflects the
fact that the federal government rewards municipalities with additional resources if they
adopt favored programs, such as community health agents, the family health model for
primary care, nutritional supplements, and basic drugs. This program addresses the
equity issue by putting a floor on expenditures across municipalities, and the efficiency
issue by encouraging interventions known to be cost-effective.
Programa de Sauide da Familia, the Family Health Program
94.  In addition, the Government has developed and expanded a program to improve
the quality and efficiency of primary care. This Programa de Saude da Familia (Family
Health Program, or PSF), finances the municipal level implementation of a new model of
basic ambulatory services in which teams of a physician, nurse, nurse auxiliary, and six
community health agents monitor basic health indicators and provide primary health care.
The key innovation is that this team is proactive in managing the health care of the
community rather than offering only walk-in, passive ambulatory care that depends on
the patient to take action. In preliminary studies in two localities, the PSF has succeeded
in reducing both childhood mortality and hospital admissions. This is a new, small
program that extends the Basic Assistance Minimum to improve service delivery for
preventive services, basic ambulatory care, and surveillance.
D.  Labor Strategy and Issues
Background
95.   Government labor programs aim to increase and raise the quality of employment
and to provide income protection during times of temporary unemployment. Government
programs in this area are funded from the Fundo de Amparo ao Trabalhador (FAT),
which is financed by a corporate revenue tax. The main programs include: (a) a system
42



of unemployment compensation for unemployed workers in the formal sector, (b)
payment of one additional monthly minimum salary each year to formal employees with
a salary less than two minimum salaries; (c) a professional training program, (d) labor
market intermediation; and (e) credit lines for the generation of employment.
Improving Labor Regulation
96.   The Government is advancing in the reform of labor regulation. Labor legislation
that raises labor costs and makes costs more uncertain has been a topic of discussion for
the last decade because it is understood to be one of the contributors to the relatively high
cost of doing business in Brazil. The Ministry of Labor has prepared a reform program,
announced on November 3, 1998, which will soon be presented for consideration by
Congress. While the proposed legislation is not a comprehensive labor reform, the draft
bill focuses on a subset of reforms that are important for improving labor market
outcomes, and are likely to be approved by the executive, legislative, and judicial
branches of Government, and by the influential employer and employee federations. The
five aims of the Government's reform agenda are:
(a)   Reduce uncertainty about labor costs for employers.
(b)   Create the conditions for more durable employee-employer relationships
by allowing contracts to become more flexible in response to changing
work and market conditions.
(c)   Create the environment for more representative collective bargaining.
(d)   Reform implementing institutions to ensure better enforcement of
contracts.
(e)   Reduce the incentives for jobs and people to migrate to the informal
sector.
97.  In 1997, the Government implemented some labor reforms, principally the
introduction of temporary employment contracts that allow the employer to pay lower
payroll taxes and to dismiss workers with lower-than-normal severance costs. In 1998,
the Government's response to the rise in open unemployment, as measured by monthly
surveys, has been to propose changes in some clauses of the labor code. The main
proposed changes are a reduction in the number of hours per week that qualify workers
for full-time status, greater decentralization of collective bargaining, encouraging labor
disputes to be settled by worker-employer committees, allowing temporary layoffs to be
funded by FAT revenues, elimination of the policy-setting powers of labor courts, and
lowering payroll tax rates. It has also reformed and expanded active and passive labor
market programs.
Improving Labor Market Programs
98.   The Government has recently expanded unemployment compensation benefits.
Up to now, an unemployed worker was eligible for up to five payments for up to 12
43



months of unemployment. Benefits have been expanded to allow up to three additional
payments for longer bouts of unemployment that last 12 to 18 months. At the same time,
the Government is taking measures to improve the effectiveness of its professional
training program and labor market intermediation. The training program is being
redirected, on the basis of state training plans, toward groups with the highest risk of
poverty and unemployment. Training programs are being evaluated, which is expected to
result in further reforms. Efforts are being made to create a better link between
unemployment compensation, professional training, and labor market intermediation.
Targeting criteria are being tightened for PROGER, which provides credit for small and
medium enterprises.
44



ANNEX 2- BRAZIL'S PROGRAM OF PROTECTED SOCIAL EXPENDITURES
Annex 2 Table 1: Protected Programs in Social Assistance
Protected Program                    Description                Main Beneficiaries      Rationale for Protection      Counter-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _c y clcy c i c a
2593-Apoio a Crianca         This program finances NGO-provided      1.1 million children   Provides services for a           No
Carente - Support for        services for children 0-6 years old, such as  0-6 years from low-  vulnerable group and is targeted
Children                     daycare. R$247M in 1999.                income families     to families with per capita
income less than 1/2 of a
minimum salary.
2595-Aten,ao a Pessoa        This program finances NGO-provided      88,000 disabled     Provides services for a              No
Portadora de Deficiencia -   services for the disabled, such as care  from low-income    vulnerable group and is targeted
Support for Disabled        homes and rehabilitation. R$47.1M in    families.            to families with per capita
1999.                                                       income less than 1/2 of a
minimum salary.
2596-Apoio a Pessoa Idosa -   Finances NGO-provided services for the    190,000 elderly  Program provides services for a      No
Support for Elderly         elderly poor. R$20.5M in 1999           from low-income      vulnerable group and is targeted
families            to families with per capita
income less than '/2 of a
minimum salary.
4458-Beneficio de Presta,cao   Provides a one minimum salary monthly    I million elderly  Program is targeted to families    Yes, as
Continuada, LOAS -           transfer payment for the disabled and  (above 67 years)     with per capita income less than  income falls
Disability and Old Age       elderly. Eligibility includes a maximum    and disabled in  1/4 of a minimum salary and     eligibility
Pensions                     per capita family income of 1/4 minimum    families with per  provides critical income support  expands
salary. In December 1997, the program   capita income less   for elderly and disabled.
served 670,000 beneficiaries, of which 86  than 1/4 minimum
percent were disabled, at an annual cost of salary
R$800 million.
45



Annex 2 Table 1: Protected Programs in Social Assistance
Protected Program                   Description               Main Beneficiaries     Rationale for Protection     Counter-
cyclical
4640-Erradicacao do         Aims to eradicate child labor through  120,000 children 7-  Program is effective and well    No
Trabalho Infantil - Program    transfer payments to families who take  14 years old   targeted to reduce child labor, in
for the Eradication of Child   their children (7-14 years) out of the                 particular in unhealthy or
Labor                      workplace and enroll them in school.                       otherwise harmful conditions in
Also increases enforcement of labor laws                  specific industries
and provides additional after-school
services for the children. Investment in a
program possibly to be expanded in the
future. R$30M in 1999.
491 1-Brasil Crian,a Cidada -  This program finances NGO-provided  114,000 children 7-  Program provides services for a  No
Support for Adolescents    services for adolescents 7-14 years old,    14 years from low-   vulnerable group and is targeted
such as tutoring and cultural activities.    income families  to families with per capita
R$22.9M in 1999.                                          income less than /2 of a
minimum salary.
4979-Programa de Garantia   For municipalities poorer than the    Children 7-14 from   This program follows the        No (but
de Renda Minima - Minimum  respective state average, the federal  low income families  experience of a well conceived  could be)
Income Guarantee Program    Government pays up to 50 percent of the                   and targeted program in Brasilia
(Bolsa Escola)              cost of a support payment (Bolsa Escola)                  and other municipalities. It
to low-income families who maintain all                   provides a cash incentive to poor
of their children in school. For 1999 this                households to maintain their
new program is funded with R$54M to                       children in primary school.
begin operations in a few selected
municipalities. Administered by MOE..
46



Annex 2 Table 2: Protected Programs in Education
Protected Program                  Description                Main Beneficiaries       Rationale for Protection      Counter-
_____ ____ _____ ___   ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ ____ cy clical
4537-FUNDEF            Municipalities and states are required to  All primary school    A well-targeted fund apparently    No
reserve 15 percent of total revenues for the   students.     causing significant increases in
National Education Development and                           student enrollment in the poorer
Maintenance Fund (FUNDEF). From this                         regions, where enrollment in
fund, a minimum amount is allocated per                      schools is lower. The program
primary school student (R$315 in 1998) to                    reduces regional disparities,
be spent only on primary education. In the                   improves teacher's salaries and
poorest states, such as Ceara, Maranhao,                     quality of education.
and Para, where 15 percent of total state and
municipal revenues does not provide
enough funding to reach this minimum, the
federal government adds funds to bring
spending up to the floor. The federal
government thus assists the poorest
municipalities to spend at least this
minimum on primary education.
3528-Money to Schools  The funds, provided in part by the Salario    All state and   One of the few programs in which      No
Educagdo, an earmarked payroll tax, are  municipal schools    all resources actually reach
sent directly to schools and are spent on  with more than 20  schools without much
non-salary expenses. This improves the  students. The        bureaucratic interference. The
learning environment, but also stimulates    amount to be    program promotes school
self-administration, contributing to better    transferred is  autonomy, an avenue for quality
operation of schools. It helps to ensure that  dependent on the  improvement and community
schools have minimum inputs. The        number of students    participation. The transfer has an
community's involvement is intended to  per school, and      equity component as it is higher
impact the use of resources.            transfers are slightly  for schools in the Northeast,
higher for schools in   Northwest, and Center-west
poorer regions.      (excluding the DF).
47



Annex 2 Table 2: Protected Programs in Education
Protected Program                   Description                  Main Beneficiaries        Rationale for Protection        Counter-
_ _________________________________________                                                           cyclical
2293-Provision of       Distributes textbooks for all primary school  All students in    Reaches in a timely manner all         No
Textbooks               students to provide universal access. The    primary school, about primary school students. School
Ministry of Education spends R$7.8 per    34.2 million students. effectiveness research has
student annually on textbooks, which means                      repeatedly demonstrated that
that at least R$280 million should be                           educational inputs such as
available for textbook procurement and                          textbooks enrich the learning
distribution in 1999.                                           environment and have a
significant effect on student
__________________ __  _  _learning.
2487-School Lunch        Provides school lunches to primary school   All students in public  This program, because of its        No
students in state, municipal, and non-profit   primary schools  nature and the semi-targeted
schools, improving learning, reducing                           funding mechanism is a poverty
repetition and dropout, and attaining a better                  alleviation program with a proven
nutritional level. This program is 40 years                     track record in Brazil. States and
old. Funds are managed by municipalities                        municipalities are increasingly
or directly by schools. The Government                          taking over the administrative
transfers funds in the amount of R$0. 13 and                    responsibilities, which with the
R$0.06 per public student enrolled in                           support of MEC, becomes a
primary school and preschool respectively.                      practical avenue to foster
R$0.20 goes to students covered by                              institutional capacity development
Comunidade Soliddria Program.                                   at the lower levels of government.
48



Annex 2 Table 2: Protected Programs in Education
Protected Program                Description                Main Beneficiaries     Rationale for Protection     Counter-
cyclical
3499-Fundescola       Similar to "Dinheiro na Escola" or the  Primary school     Key policy intervention in the      No
"Money to Schools" program, with a focus  students in the three   poorer states of the country, and
on poorer regions. Fundescola operates on   poorest regions of    within them, in the micro-regions
three levels: (i) improves minimum    Brazil - North,     where there are concentrations of
standards by educating and certifying  Northeast and      poor. The program is a good
teachers, supplying basic furniture and  Center-West.     example of the federal
equipment, and financing school                            government playing the key role
improvements; (ii) assists schools to prepare              of mediating between states and
development plans, and (iii) assists                       municipalities to reach higher
decentralized planning by creating off-the-                efficiency in their support of
shelf components (e.g., developing standard                primary schooling. The design of
architectural plans). The program objective               the Program increases equity by
is to strengthen primary schools and the                  providing greater benefits to
public institutions that are responsible for               poorer schools, while the school-
them within a coordinated management                       based development process
framework.                                                 promotes autonomy and
community participation.
2298-School Health    Provides school health services.       Primary school      Preventive health program that is   No
students.           partially targeted to poorer
communities through the
._______________________________________________   Comunidade Solidaria program.
49



Annex 2 Table 3: Protected Programs in Health
Protected Program                   Description                Main Beneficiaries     Rationale for Protection     Counter-
cyclical
4432-Nutritional Assistance   Provides nutritional supplements and  Children, pregnant   Effective in reducing             No
Program                     micro nutrients (milk, soja, Vitamin A,    and breast-feeding    malnutrition rates. Protecting it
and iron) to the beneficiary population,    women.         will minimize malnutrition risks
encourages breastfeeding, and monitors                     for the target group.
child growth and development.
4436-Basic Drug Program     Provides financing for a list of 40 basic    All eligible  The program is a key element        No
drugs that are essential for primary care.   population for the    for financing medication
It complements the PAB program. Until   programs receiving   required for primary care
1998, the program benefited           these supplies (the    programs. Its protection will
municipalities with fewer than 21,000  other programs in    assure access to basic
inhabitants. Since 1999, it will evolve to  this table)    medication when incomes are
a per-capita transfer equivalent to R$1 per                reduced in a recession.
year for all Municipalities.
4439 & 4436-National        Provides immunization against          Infant population.    Well targeted and effective.      No
Immunization Program        preventable diseases (polio, measles,                      Population coverage has
diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough,                       increased dramatically in recent
tuberculosis, hepatitis B, and yellow                      years, contributing to a decrease
fever).                                                   in morbidity and mortality rates.
Protecting it will prevent
epidemics of diseases included
in the program.
50



Annex 2 Table 3: Protected Programs in Health
Protected Program                  Description              Main Beneficiaries     Rationale for Protection    Counter-
cyclical
4438-Piso Aten,co Basico    The program consists of a per-capita  All population in the The program has improved the  No
Program (PAB), Primary    transfer of R$10-18 to municipalities to   served by      equity and allocative efficiency
Care Per-capita Transfer   finance key primary care interventions  neighborhood     of public health spending since
(initially a list of 29 basic interventions).  clinics.  its introduction in 1997. Its
protection will preserve the
financing of key basic care
interventions for all the
population, while it stimulates
equity in transfers of funds.
4438-Family and Community  Consists of two different programs aimed  All population.  Both programs are well targeted  No
Health Programs            at providing public health and primary  Emphasis on      and provide key basic services to
care services to the population. The first  children and  the population, especially to the
one (Family Health Program) is based on   pregnant women  poor and rural populations. The
a team of health professionals (physician,  residing in poor  conservation of these programs
nurse, health assistant and community  areas.            during Brazil's economic
health workers) who provide services to                  recession and fiscal adjustment
an average of 766 families within a                      cycle will maintain availability
geographical area. The second program                    of basic health services. Both
(Community Health Workers Program) is                    programs are the vehicles for
based on a community health worker who                   providing the rest of the
typically resides in rural areas and serves              protected health programs.
an average of 150 families. Both
programs emphasize promotion and
prevention targeted to mothers and
children. In the future both programs
would converge to only one.
51



Annex 2 Table 3: Protected Programs in Health
Protected Program                 Description              Main Beneficiaries    Rationale for Protection    Counter-
cyclical
3447 & 4439-Women's       Provides prevention, early detection and   Women between 25  Cervical cancer ranks high   No
Health Program: Prevention  treatment of cervical cancer.      and 60 years old.    among women's mortality due to
and Early Detection of                                                            Cancer. It affects women at
Cervical Cancer Program                                                           early ages of their lives. It is one
of the most preventable cancers
that exists. Protecting the
program is an important
women's health concern and
guarantees availability of
services following a public
awareness program in 1998.
52



Annex 2 Table 4: Protected Programs in Labor
Protected Program                  Description              Main Beneficiaries     Rationale for Protection     Counter-
cyclical
213 1-Seguro Desemprego -  Formal sector employees enjoy the    About 4.5 million    Well designed program that       Yes
Unemployment Insurance    benefits of an unemployment           formal sector       provides support for formal
compensation system that provides up to 5  unemployed.   sector employed who lose their
payments in the first 12 months of                       jobs. Since benefits are limited,
unemployment. For 1999, eligibility has                  they are relatively progressive
been extended to provide up to three more                among formal sector
payments in the 13h through 18th months.                 unemployed
For 1999, the program is budgeted at
R$4.3B. Eligibility is per bout of
unemployment.
2543-Abono Salarial -     Formal sector employees earning up to  About 5 million    Provides income support for low- No (only
Salary Bonus             two minimum salaries receive an annual   formal sector     salaried formal sector employees, indirectly if
payment of one monthly minimum salary.  employees with   and is progressive among formal  wages fall or
The 1999 budget provides R$640m for    salary less than 1/2   sector employees.         there is a
this benefit.                         minimum salary                                    shift into
lower wage
jobs).
4477-Qualificacdo         A large and ambitious professional    2 million workers    Program provides training         No
Profissional - Professional  training program (PLANFOR), budgeted   trained, many of  opportunities that will improve
Training                  at R$3 12M in 1999. Evaluation studies    whom are from   employment options, especially
are underway and will be followed up with  informal sector  for low-income workers
redesign to improve effectiveness and
targeting
53



ANNEX 3- WORLD BANK - BRAZIL POLICY SUMMARY BY SECTOR
Annex 3 Table 1: Brazil Policy Summary - Overall Macroeconomic Framework
Issues                               Objectives                                Loan Condition                          Second Loan Condition
Macroeconomic Performance    Agreement with the Bank on a program of fiscal     Satisfactory initiation of the program.   Follow-up operation depends on satisfactory
reforms (the "action plan") and structural reforms                                     progress on the agreed IMF program.
(the "work agenda") as described in the Letter of
Sector Development Policy (Annex 5).
54



Annex 3 Table 2: Brazil Policy Summary - Social Assistance
Issues                      Objectives                 First Loan Condition      Program Development: Selected   Program Development: Selected
Analytical Issues               Policy Options
Social Assistance Programs    Short term: In the adjustment  (1) Apoio a Crianca Carente    (1) Effectiveness of decentralized  (I) Improved and tighter poverty
benefit vulnerable groups     process, protect spending that  (R$247.OM)                    implementation of social      targeting mechanisms
(children, adolescents, elderly and  directly benefits the poor.                            assistance programs
disabled), and are implemented at                            (2) Apoio ao Deficiente       (2) Managerial efficiency of
the local level, often in     Longer term: (a) Improve       (R$47. IM)                     programs
partnership with NGOs. A      efficiency in the provision of                                (3) Budget allocation criteria and
special child labor eradication  social assistance services. (b)  (3) Apoio a Pessoa Idosa  poverty
program provides financial    Improve the poverty targeting of   (R$20.5M)                  (4) Adequacy of the programs
incentives to responsible parents   social assistance programs.
and municipalities.                                          (6) Assistencia Integral a Crianca
e ao Adolescente (R$22.9M)
(5) Child Labor Eradication
Program (R$30M)
LOAS establishes an entitlement   Short term: In the adjustment  (4) Beneficios de Prestacao  (I) Criteria for benefit     (1) More systematic proxy-means
for a minimum salary transfer  process, protect spending that  Continuada (LOAS)            assignment, in particular      testing methodology for income
payment for elderly and disabled   directly benefits the poor.  (R$,I 115.9M)               methodology for means-testing  verification
in families with less than I one                                                            (2) Methodology for improved   (2) Systematic audits of program
fourth minimum salary income  Longer term: Improve targeting                                enforcement of program rules   eligibility compliance
per capita.                   and efficiency of program
spending
The federal government's new  Short term: protect basic      (7) Programa de Garantia de    (I) Fiscal and social implications   (I) Significant expansion of
Minimum Income Program will   spending to ensure start-up of this  Renda Minima (R$54.OM)   of program expansion           program
be implemented together with  important program.                                            (2) Targeting mechanisms       (2) Clear means-testing
municipalities to provide an                                                                (3) Impact of the educational  methodology
incentive to low-income parents   Longer term: carefully build up                           attainment of the children who  (3) Better targeting of allocations
to send children to school and  program to form building block of                           benefit.
transfer resources directly to these  basic income transfer programs                        (4) Monitor dependencies created
families.                                                                                   and adjust program as necessary.
Rural pensions and Renda Mensal  Improve the targeting and   No actions required.           (1) Review reform options for  (I) Reduce overlapping benefits
Vitalicia are important social  efficiency of social protection                             rural pensions and their fiscal and  from other programs.
protection programs under the  programs under Pensions                                      social impact
social security system
55



Annex 3 Table 2: Brazil Policy Summary - Social Assistance
Issues                       Objectives                 First Loan Condition       Program Development: Selected   Program Development: Selected
Analytical Issues               Policy Options
There are serious gaps in Brazil's  Improve system of household  No actions required.          (I) Review household survey    (I) Broader reform of the
system to monitor poverty and  surveys to monitor poverty and                                 system                          household survey system
evaluate the impact of social  living standards. Undertake and                                (2) Review available incidence  (2) LSMS II in 1999
programs                       consolidate studies on social                                  and impact studies and          (3) Incidence and evaluation
program incidence and impact.                                 identification of gaps           studies for identified programs
56



Annex 3 Table 3: Brazil Policy Summary - Education
Issues                      Objectives                 First Loan Condition      Program Development: Selected   Program Development: Selected
Analytical Issues               Policy Options
Primary education is the      Short term: In the adjustment  (8) FUNDEF Program             (1) Study use of FUNDEF funds   (1) Suggest legislative action to
fundamental pro-poor social   process, protect spending that  (R$436.4M) *                  at the municipal levels        protect an acceptable minimum
intervention. It is mostly a  directly benefits the poor.                                  (2) Study Fundescola            per student spending nation-wide.
responsibility of states and                                 (9) Money to Schools Program   expenditures at the school level.   (2) Protect, enhance, and expand
municipalities with the federal  Longer term: (a) Promote federal  (R$83.8M)                (3) Verify budget allocations and   the educational assessment and
govemment increasingly playing   role of serving as a broker                                trends for poverty targeted    information systems.
a role in improving equity and  between states and municipalities  (10) Textbook provision Program   programs.             (3) Enhance targeting of
quality.                      to gain efficiencies by        (R$255.5M)                                                    programs to benefit the poor.
coordinated work. (b) Promote                                                               (4) Enhance the federal
federal role of providing     (I 1) School lunch Program                                    govemment's role of equity
incentives to states and      (R$903M)                                                      promotion and brokerage for
municipalities to increase access                                                           coordination of service provision
and quality                   (12) Fundescola Program                                       between states and municipalities.
(R$159M)
(13) School Health Program
(R$1I6.2M )__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                     _ _ _ _ _
Secondary education: Enrollment  Identify funding mechanisms for   No actions required.     (I) Analyze state-level spending    (I) Explore expansion of a
rates are low, but enrollments are  secondary education that would                          in secondary education.        FUNDEF-type mechanism to
expanding rapidly. Increased  accommodate the pressing need                                                                expand access to secondary
pressure over the system is   to expand this sub-sector, with                                                              education.
expected in every state in the  special attention to providing                                                             (2) Explore progran of means
coming years and no specific  access for poorer students.                                                                  tested scholarships.
funding strategy for the subsector
is in place.
57



Annex 3 Table 3: Brazil Policy Summary - Education
Issues                       Objectives                 First Loan Condition      Program Development: Selected   Program Development: Selected
Analytical Issues               Policy Options
Higher education: Efficiency is    Gradually restructure the  No actions required.           (I) Various dimensions of      (1) Incentives and power of
low, and enrollments are low for   financing of higher education to                          improving quality in higher    universities to improve quality
the amount of money being spent.  improve efficiency, targeting,                             education and raising enrollments  and to educate more students.
fiscal control, accountability,                               within existing budgets - possibly  (2) Improved funding
Institutions of higher education  quality, and ability of the                                mutually incompatible goals.   mechanisms that promote
would benefit from increased  institutions to raise funds from                               (2) State-level spending on higher  autonomy, transparency, and
autonomy and an improved       other sources.                                                education and its relation with  incentives to educate low-income
financial framework for their                                                                federal spending in the given  students.
operations.                                                                                  state.
Most benefits of federal
expenditures at this level flow to
higher income groups.
58



Annex 3 Table 4: Brazil Policy Summary - Health
Issues                      Objectives                 First Loan Condition      Program Development: Selected   Program Development: Selected
Analytical Issues               Policy Options
Public Health and Primary Care.   Short In the adjustment process,  (14) Nutritional Assistance  (1) Cost of Family Health  (1) Enhance targeting of
Coverage of public health and  to protect spending of public  Program (RS 149.OM)           Program.*                      programs to benefit the poor.
primary care prograrns is low;  health programs and primary care                            (2) Evaluation of Primary Care    (2) Strengthening of the Family
lack adequate quality and     that directly benefit the poor and   (15) Basic Drug Program  Impact.                        Health Program by combining
effectiveness.                population at risk of preventable   (R$160.OM)                                               interventions that are currently
diseases.                                                                                    program specific.
(16) Vaccination Program
Long: Improve cost-           (RS194.1M)
effectiveness, quality, and
coverage.                     (17) Piso Atencao Basico
Program (PAB) (Primary Care
Per-capita Transfer)
(R$ I ,722.OM)
(18) Family and Community
Health Programs (RS 379.0M)
(19) Women's Health Program:
Prevention and Early Detection of
Cervix Cancer Program
(R$46.OM)
Decentralization of Public Health  To continue and strengthen SUS    No actions required.   (1) Evaluation of Decentralization  (1) Stimulate the creation of
System. Until late 1980's,    decentralization effort from the                              Program, including Impact.     Municipal Consortiums for small
centralized management,       Federal to the State and                                                                     Municipalities that would
financing and decision making of  Municipal levels initiated in early                                                      improve their management
the public health system (SUS).    1990's.                                                                                  capabilities.
(2) Strengthen the State's
planning, financing, regulatory,
and monitoring functions.
59



Annex 3 Table 4: Brazil Policy Summary - Health
Issues                       Objectives                 First Loan Condition       Program Development: Selected    Program Development: Selected
Analytical Issues                Policy Options
Financing of Health Services.  Improve equity and allocative   No actions required.           (1) Cost of PAB*.               (1) Transform the PAB in a
Most public health spending goes  efficiency of federal transfers.                            (2) Burden of Disease*.         global Per-capita transfer for
to hospital care. Transfer of  Develop adequate                                               (3) Review List of Basic Drug   primary care by combining
funds to the States/Municipalities   monitoring/evaluating                                    Package and Acquisition and     expenditures and transfers that
is unequal and poorly monitored.   mechanisms. Begin charging                                 Distribution Systems            currently are program specific.
Private insured patients use public  private health insurers for the                          (complementary to PAB).         (2) Increase the equity of the SUS
facilities at no cost to the insurers.  treatment of their policyholders                      (4) Develop a Resource          funding formula across States and
when they seek medical                                         Allocation Methodology that     Municipalities.
assistance in the public sector.                              Improves Equity of Federal      (3) Implement legislation to
Transfers*.                    charge privately insured patients,
(5) Cost Recovery From Privately  but at the same time, minimize
Insured Population*.           possible negative impacts on
uninsured patients.
Provision of Health Services.  Increase public provider        No actions required.           (I) Management Options for Big   (I) Transform existing public
Public Providers have low      management autonomy and                                        Hospitals*.                     providers into semi-public or
efficiency and productivity rates,   enhance their management,                                (2) Accreditation System*.      private entities.
poor management/information    information and auditing systems.                              (3) Auditing System*.           (2) Improve SUS auditing and
systems and experience                                                                        (4) Pilot SUS ID Card (Cartao   fraud control systems.
fraudulent practices frequently.                                                              SUS).
* Included in or under consideration
of financing for the IBRD/IDB
REFORSUS Project.
60



Annex 3 Table 5: Brazil Policy Summary - Labor
Issues                      Objectives                 First Loan Condition      Program Development: Selected   Program Development: Selected
Analytical Issues               Policy Options
Income Protection/Risk        Short term: protect spending and   (20) Unemployment          (I) Incidence of program benefits  (I) Effective linkages between
Management. For formal sector   ensure appropriate program   compensation (R$4322.9M)       (2) Alternatives for reform of  unemployment compensation,
employees, the Ministry of Labor  expansion if unemployment rises.                          benefit structure              training and intermediation
provides Unemployment                                        (21) Abono Salarial (R$640.OM)                                (2) Improved poverty targeting of
Compensation - currently being    Longer term: review design to                                                            discretionary benefit components
extended to provide additional    focus benefits on neediest and
coverage for long-term        most vulnerable groups
unemployed - and the Abono
Salarial - a 13t' salary for low-
salary formal employees.
Professional Qualification    Short term: In the adjustment  (22) PLANFOR (R$312. IM)       (I) Incidence of program benefits  (1) Effective linkages between
Programs generate important   process, protect spending that                                (2) Review of evaluation studies   unemployment compensation,
employment opportunities, but    directly benefits the poor.                                and efficiency of programs     training and intermediation
their targeting can be improved.                                                            (2) Review alternative reform
Longer term: Redesign training                               proposals
programs based on ongoing
evaluation and ensure effective
links with intermediation and
unemployment compensation
programs
There is no income maintenance    Short term: Implement basic  No actions required.         (I) Altemative approaches to   (I) Employment guarantee
mechanism for poor households   income protection or employment                             strengthening the social       "workfare" programs
that may incur significant income   program for poor affected by an                         protection system for poor     (2) Expansion of "Bolsa Escola"
losses during a recession. These   economic downturn                                        working families within the fiscal  type or other minimum income
households qualify for benefits                                                             constraints of the Govemment.    programs (see social assistance
from programs in other sectors,    Longer term: Develop a stronger                          Evaluate existing social       and education)
such as health, education, and  system of income support for the                            protection system in terms of this
social assistance.            poor, if necessary, to fill in gaps                           group; identify gaps and options.
in existing targeted programs
FAT finances important social    Increase efficiency and targeting   No actions required.   (1) Efficiency and targeting of  (I) Reallocate funds to degree
programs. Their efficiency and    of funded programs; explore                               funding mechanisms             possible to improve income
targeting can be improved.    alternative approaches to reach                               (2) PROGER and other FAT       protection for the poorest.
the same goals.                                              funded programs
61



ANNEX 4- INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - BRAZIL POLICY MATRIX (DRAFT, ENGLISH TRANSLATION)
INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - MACROECONOMIC POLICY
PROBLEM                      ACTIONS                     IMPACT                   FIRST TRANCHE              SECOND TRANCHE               THIRD TRANCHE
Instability of financial    Contribute to the restoration    Fulfillment of          Economic policy             Agreement with the IMF in    Agreement with the IMF in
markets is jeopardizing     of confidence in the        macroeconomic goals.         memorandum with the IMF    effect.                       effect.
macroeconomic stability,    Brazilian capital market,                                signed.
thereby affecting price     which would support         Low inflation situation
stability which in tum has a    macroeconomic stability  successfully maintained,
negative impact on the poor                             which substantially benefits
low-income families in the
country.
62



INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - PROTECTED SOCIAL EXPENDITURES
PROBLEM                    ACTIONS                    IMPACT                 FIRST TRANCHE            SECOND TRANCHE              THIRD TRANCHE
Level of social spending is    Protect levels of spending  Reduce the negative impact   (1) Copy of the budget  (1) Budget approved by  (I) Budget approved for
suffering major reductions as  and non-wage social public   caused by the fiscal  proposal presented by the  Congress for 1999,       2000 includes the
a result of the fiscal    investment in Priority Social  adjustment on more     Govemment to the Congress  identifying disaggregated  disaggregated sums allocated
adjustment.                Programs (PSPs) in the areas  vulnerable population  for 1999, identifying      sums allocated to PSPs. In   to the PSPs.
of education, health, labor    groups, by maintaining  disaggregated sums allocated  the event that the sums
and social welfare, chosen    spending on priority social   to the PSPs in accordance  approved for the PSPs are cut  (2) Proof that in the first two
because of their impact on  programs that make up the    with the figures in Annex 1.   by the Congress, within the    quarters of 1989, budgetary
low-income groups.        country's social safety net.                          powers of the Executive    execution of the PSPs has
(2) Financial and fiscal  Branch (by law it can modify  reached at least 90% of what
programming of PSPs for   the sums approved by more   is established in Annex 1.
1999.                     or less 15%), present proof
of adjustments in order to  (3) Assessment that physical
attempt to maintain the levels  and financial advance of
indicated in Annex 1.      PSPs in the first quarter of
1999 substantially meets the
(2) Evidence that in the first   goals agreed upon in the
two quarters of 1999, budget  programming.
execution of the PSPs has
attained at least 40% of what  (4) Programming of the PSPs
is established in Annex I and  for the first two quarters of
that combined with the     the year 2000, with
financial planning of the  breakdown of physical goals
PSPs for the rest of the   and projected flows of funds.
period. It meets the sums
agreed upon in that Annex.
Assessment that physical and
financial advance of PSPs in
the first quarter of 1999
substantially meets the goals
agreed upon in the
programming.
63



INTER-AMEPICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - EDUCATION SECTOR POLICY                                                              |
PROBLEM                  ACTIONS               IMPACT             FIRST TRANCHE                 SECOND TRANCHE                    THIRD TRANCHE
(I) National programs of   (I) Progress is being    (I) The impact    (1) School Meal Program.   (1) School Meal Program: Inform on  (1) School Meal Program:
support for basic education  made in actions to  expected is that the    Actions taken to move  the impact of actions taken to complete  Inform about implementation of
have made great progress in    improve programs   resources available    toward completing direct    direct transfer of program resources to  action plan to adopt criteria for
terms of decentralization   through greater       for the various     transfer of Program        the municipalities of the country;  distribution of resources leading
toward schools and/or the   decentralized         programs will be    resources to the country's    presentation of Action Plai for  to greater redistributive impact of
lower level govemment entity.  execution, measures    spent more      municipalities.            adopting criteria for resource    the Program and implementation
Even more can nevertheless    adopted for greater  effectively and more                          distribution, leading to greater   of Methodology for Program
be accomplished in         targeting, and creation   efficiently, and that   (2) "Public Schools  redistributive impact of the Program;    Monitoring.
decentralization and targeting   and implementation of  they will be targeted   Efficient Management"  and presentation of Methodology for
resources.                  monitoring systems.    more on the-most   Program: provide           Program Monitoring.                (2) "Public Schools Efficient
needy, without      information about                                             Management" Program: inform
(2) Despite the increase in the  (2) The govemment    abandoning its  simplification of procedures  (2) "Public Schools Efficient   about results for actions taken to
amount budgeted for 1999    will take the steps   central aim of      for transferring Program   Management" Program: Inforn        move toward completing direct
vis-a-vis 1998 for the      necessary to assure  improving basic      resources, presenting      about results for actions taken to move  transfer of Program resources to
"Complementation of         that FUNDEF           education as a whole.  accounts, and changing  forward in completing direct transfer    schools.
FUNDEF Resources"           objectives will be                        rules of access to Program    of Program resources to schools.
Program, preliminary        handled within the   (2) It will enable the   resources;                                                (3) "Complementation of
projections of enrollment   limits imposed by the   poorer states with                          (3) "Complementation of FUNDEF    FUNDEF Resources Program:
expansion and of state and  fiscal adjustment.   limited resources    (3) The govemment will     Resources" Program: present: (I)    inform about changes made and
municipal revenues, which                        available for basic    indicate the minimum     Evaluation of Impact of FUJNDEF; (2)   planned in FUNDEF
would be affected by the                         education to continue  spending level per student    Methodology for Annual Follow Up of
fiscal adjustment indicate that                  with a minimum of    to be obtained for 1999 and   FUNDEF; (3) evaluation of suitability  (4) "Distribution of Books to
what is budgeted might not be                    resources per student.  its strategy for obtaining the  of adjusting FUNDEF to cover all  Students and Libraries "
enough to handle demand at                                            resources needed for the  basic education; and (4) Feasibility  Program: inform about actions
the current level.                                                    "Complementation of        Study for Adopting Automatic       taken to guarantee distribution of
FUNDEF Resources"         Procedure for Annual Adjustment of    school textbooks to all students.
Program                   Minimum Spending per Student.
(4) "Distribution of Books to
Students and Libraries" Program:
inform about actions taken to
guarantee distribution of school
textbooks to all students.
64



INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - HEALTH SECTOR POLICY
PROBLEM                     ACTIONS                     IMPACT                  FIRST TRANCHE              SECOND TRANCHE               THIRD TRANCHE
(I) Physical and financial    (I) Improve budgetary     (I) Increased access of low    (1) Presentation of document  (I) Evaluation of costs of  (1) Presentation of final
execution of protected health  execution of protected   income groups to high-      with a strategy so that     Family Health Program        results of studies defined in
programs has been very low in   programs in health care and  social-impact and cost -  budgetary execution of these   concluded and presented to    the first tranche.
the past two years and could  change the resource       effective primary health care  programs in 1999 will be  the Banks
worsen because agreements    transfer strategy based on    programs in a period of  better than in previous years;                           (2) Presentation of
have to be signed as a prior  agreements for transfers on  fiscal adjustment and budget                         (2) Presentation of the terms    preliminary results of
condition for transfer of funds.   a per capita basis.  cutbacks;                   (2) Presentation of terms of   of reference for studies  studies requested in the
reference of already defined   evaluating the impact of the  second tranche.
(2) Transfer of funds to States    (2) Carry out studies and    (2) Improved faimess in the   REFORSUS studies so as to   entire period, the process of
and Municipalities does not   establish tools making it    process of decentralizing the   make it possible to improve    decentralizing the SUS, and  (3) Pilot projects of "SUS
take into account the         possible to improve       SUS to States and           the efficiency of protected  the method for fairly       cards" underway.
epidemiological profile and   fairness in the process of    Municipalities and improved   health care programs,  distributing SUS resources
their fiscal capacity thereby  allocating federal resources  information systems to  especially the PAB.        (financed by REFORSUS);    (4) Presentation to the
compromising fairness in the  to States and             establish financial                                                                  Banks of final results of
allocation of resources.      Municipalities and        compensation mechanisms in  (3) Presentation of terms of   (3) Presentation of final  studies begun in the first
guarantee efficient       the use of resources allocated  reference of studies on  proposal for launching the  tranche.
(3) Health Units are not      management of resources    on a per capita basis between  hospital accreditation,  "SUS Card" in municipal and
managed efficiently and their    transferred.           different municipalities.   evaluation of the auditing  state pilot projects;        (5) Beginning of setting up
performance is not adequately                                                       system, financed by         Presentation of an inventory    an information system for
evaluated.                    (3) Carry out studies     (3) Lay foundations for     REFORSUS;                   of innovative experiences in    private health plans.
making it possible to     increasing the management                               managing public health units;
(4) SUS units are providing free  improve efficiency and  autonomy of health units,  (4) Presentation of the
services to those enrolled in  evaluation of the health  guaranteeing efficient     CONSU ruling on recovery   (4) Begin reimbursement for
private health plans, thereby  units that engage in SUS  auditing and health        of costs for medical activity   emergency services in the
constituting a socially       activities.               monitoring systems.         emergency in private health   SUS network used by private
regressive cross-subsidy.                                                           plans.                      health plans.
(4) Recover the costs of  (4) Allocate public resources
health care activities    in health care more         (5) Presentation of the terms   (5) Presentation of the terms
provided by SUS units to    efficiently and more fairly.    of reference of the Studies  of reference for the study of
those enrolled in private                             on the Profile of           mechanisms for regulating
health plans and carry out                            Supplementary Medical Care  private health plans;
studies to improve                                    (financed by REFORSUS)
regulation of private health
plans.
65



INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK- LABOR SECTOR POLICY
PROBLEM                     ACTIONS                    IMPACT                FIRST TRANCHE              SECOND TRANCHE              THIRD TRANCHE
(I) The fiscal adjustment will   (1) Review of         (1) Protection of the      (1) Duration of the benefits   (1) CODEFAT issues ruling    (1) Presentation of a budget
have a negative impact on the    Unemployment Insurance    unemployment insurance  for unemployed workers in   to temporarily extend time  proposal for 2000 including
level of economic and        payments to increase      system and the Wage Bonus   particularly affected regions   period for benefits.  sufficient allocations to
productive activity and will  protection for vulnerable    system against the financial   is extended by 2 months and                    cover financing of
cause unemployment to rise and  groups.               impact of increased numbers  is presented to CODEFAT.    (2) CODEFAT adopts a      Unemployment Insurance
last longer, particularly for                          of the unemployed.                                    resolution granting one month  in accordance with what
certain especially vulnerable  (2) Review of benefits to                          (2) Presentation of the Terms  of benefits for registered  happens to the
groups (women, low skilled   protect long term         (2) Special protection for the   of Reference for the outside   workers who have been  unemployment rate.
workers, contours in         unemployed (under        increase of the number of   evaluation study of        unemployed for over 12
contraction).                specific selection criteria in  payments or for the granting   PLANFOR.         months.                     (2) Presentation of a plan of
order to avoid problems of   of a special benefit for                                                       action for making
(2) Lower skilled workers are    incentives)           workers in regions that are    (3) Resource distribution  (3) Results of outside  PLANFOR more efficient
less adaptable and will face                           especially affected or who    implemented in accordance    evaluation of PLANFOR for   in accordance with the
greater problems in finding new   (3) Review of rules for the   are in a vulnerable situation.   with Ruling 194 (9/23/98).    at least 4 states presented.  recommendations of the
jobs.                        operation of the system of                                                                                  evaluation study.
the training system and  (3) Improve efficiency and
making it more efficient    impact of PLANFOR.
and fair (PLANFOR)
(4) Distribution of resources
is improving vis-a-vis
inequalities between regions,
clientele, efficiency of
programs set up and level of
matching contribution.
66



INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - SOCIAL WELFARE SECTOR POLICY
PROBLEM                     ACTIONS                    IMPACT                FIRST TRANCHE              SECOND TRANCHE              THIRD TRANCHE
Reduced impact of federal    Design and implementation  (1) Maximize impact of    (1) Proposal establishing the   (1) Progress report on  (1) Progress report on
social welfare programs      of concrete strategies to  social welfare programs by    working plan for developing   advances in implementing  implementation of the
intended for the most        improve efficiency,       greater coverage and/or    a connected network of     strategy for hastening      various strategies and
vulnerable groups.           fairness and quality of   higher quality service.   information systems, along    compliance with Art. 30 and   working plans, including
programs                                            with the plan for training  on the working plan to     results from pilot projects
social welfare program     develop an articulated      where applicable.
managers.                  network of information
systems.
(2) Proposal establishing the
Government's strategy for    (2) Presentation of specific
hastening compliance with    strategies for improving
Art. 30 of the Organic    targeting and quality of
Social Welfare Law, aimed    welfare services.
at transferring social welfare
programs to municipalities.
(3) Presentation of working
plan for improving targeting
of federal programs,
including development of a
low cost instrument for
verifying family income.
(4) Presentation of the work
plan and time table for
improving quality of welfare
services, which must cover
at least the following issues:
minimum standards of care,
local registries of service
providers, monitoring and
auditing, and service to the
client.
67



ANNEX 5- LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Cover Letter
Brasilia, December 9, 1998
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
As you are aware, the Brazilian government and the staff of the World Bank are
working on a series of loans aimed at providing broad support to the Brazilian reform
effort.
Attached herewith you will find a Letter of Economic policy as well as a Letter of
social development policies. Those documents were elaborated with the participation of
the Ministries involved in the execution of the relevant actions. They should serve as a
basis for the Brazilian request for a social protection special sectoral adjustment loan
designed to facilitate the protection of social development expenditures in a period of
severe fiscal discipline, when budget cuts to social protection were inferior to cuts in any
other government expenditures. The two attachments should be considered as an integral
part of this letter
Yours sincerely,
Pedro Sampaio Malan
(signed)
68



Letter of Economic Policy
Background
1.    Since the introduction of the Real Plan on March 1, 1994, the Brazilian economy
has achieved a sustained reduction of inflation, from an annual rate in excess of 2,500
percent in 1993 to under 3 percent by September 1998. Real GDP grew at an average
annual rate of 4.1 percent in 1994-97 and real GDP per capita at an annual rate of 2.7
percent. Progress in macroeconomic and financial stability has been accompanied by
substantial structural reforms, which have contributed to the modernization of the
economy and to productivity growth. Investment has risen from under 15v/2 percent of
GDP in 1994 to an estimated 181/2 percent of GDP in 1998, and foreign direct investment
(FDI) has risen from about US$2 billion to US$23 billion during the same period.
2.    Despite the Real Plan's successes, the finances of the non-financial public sector
(NFPS) have remained a source of concern.  The public sector is defined very
comprehensively in Brazil-more so than in other countries-as it includes the federal
administration, social security, the central bank, the states and municipalities, and federal
as well as state and local enterprises. Overall deficits of the public sector have been in
the range of 5-7 percent of GDP in recent years, and there has been a steady climb in the
ratio of the net public debt to GDP. The increasing dissaving by the public sector has led
to an increase in the current account deficit of the balance of payments from under 1/2
percent of GDP in 1994 to over 4 percent of GDP in 1997. Growing FDI has financed
nearly 50% of this deficit, but total gross external debt has also increased, to about
US$228 billion (over 28 percent of GDP) by mid-1998.
3.    Like many other emerging markets, Brazil has been affected by the developments
in international financial markets since July 1997, particularly after the Russian debt
moratorium in August 1998. International reserves, which amounted to US$70.2 billion
at end-July, declined to US$45.8 billion by end-September, and to around US$42.6
billion at the end of October. Although the rate of reserve loss moderated substantially in
October, it became clear that a speeding-up of the pace of change in policy and reforms
was needed. In a major public speech delivered 11 days prior to the presidential elections
in October, President Cardoso made clear to the country that a major fiscal adjustment
and reform effort would represent the cornerstone of a second mandate for his
government.
The Government's Economic Program
4.    Economic policy in the years ahead will continue to aim at promoting sustainable
growth of real per capita income, and improvement of the living standards of the
Brazilian people, especially lower income groups, in a context of low inflation and
reduced vulnerability of the economy to external shocks. The government's medium-
term fiscal adjustment and reform program is aimed at promoting a steady increase in
national savings, reducing the burden of the public debt, and facilitating a sustainable
decline in interest rates.
69



5.    The Fiscal Stabilization Program has two dimensions. The first dimension, the
Government's Work Agenda, deals with measures of a structural and institutional nature,
which are designed to deal with the roots of the fiscal disequilibria. This component
encompasses the approval of constitutional and legal reforms in social security, labor,
public administration, tax reform and fiscal management at the three levels of
government (Federal, State and Municipal) and the three branches of government (the
Executive, the Legislative and the Judiciary). The Work Agenda is complemented by a
Plan of Action of immediate fiscal measures covering the period 1999-2001, aimed at
stabilizing the debt/GDP ratio within this time frame, and bridging to a time when the
structural measures have their full effect. The financial and technical support of the
World Bank is particularly requested for selected elements in the Work Agenda.
The Work Agenda
6.    The government plans to make fundamental changes to the management of the
public finances. A key element in its efforts will be the new Fiscal Responsibility Act,
which the government intends to submit to Congress in December. The new law will set
up a general framework to guide budgetary planning and execution. With a view to
ensuring fiscal solvency, the law will, inter alia, establish prudential criteria for public
indebtedness; provide strict rules for the control of public expenditures; establish
standing rules to limit budget deficits; and prohibit any further refinancing by the federal
govermment of state and municipal debt.
7.    The government views the recently passed constitutional amendment on social
security reform as an important first step in this critical area. This legislation will
generate important savings over the next several years. It will not be sufficient, however,
to ensure both the fairness and financial equilibrium of the system. To put social security
for both public and private sector workers on a sound footing and to increase its fairness,
while broadening the scope for individual choice, the government envisions a
complementary set of new legislative initiatives, to be presented to Congress in the first
quarter of 1999. The World Bank has already assisted the Federal authorities and certain
states in technical analyses of alternative proposals for social security reform. The World
Bank's proposed program of special adjustment loans for social security would build
upon this background.
8.    The passage of the Constitutional amendments for administrative reform was one
of the important achievements of the first administration of President Cardoso. To bring
this reform effort to a successful completion, the government has already submitted to
Congress various enabling laws and regulations, with the aim of ensuring that the reform
begins to produce effects as early as 1999. The main objective of the reform is to
increase the efficiency and reduce the cost of public administration. The enabling
legislation will also allow governments to enact the Administrative Reform's proposals
for the elimination of over-staffing. These reforms will apply at all levels of general
government, and will help governments meet the targets of the Lei Camata, which sets a
cap on government payroll spending as a percentage of revenues.  The federal
government is empowered to suspend discretionary transfers to those subnational
governments that are not in compliance with the Lei Camata target. Furthermore, states
not meeting the target will not be in a position to raise wages or increase employment.
70



This program of actions is expected to be supported by a program of special adjustment
loans for administrative reform from the World Bank.
9.    Although the Brazilian labor market is not beset by severe rigidities,
improvements in certain labor market regulations and policies can contribute to greater
flexibility and to the increase of labor productivity and formal employment. In the face
of the recent increase in unemployment-which results both from structural and cyclical
factors-the need to reform labor legislation and to improve labor market policies has
become more urgent. The following measures have already been implemented: (i)
adoption of a temporary lay-off system in order to reduce final separations; (ii) regulation
of part-time and temporary contracts; (iii) flexibility of working hours in order to reduce
overtime costs; (iv) extension of unemployment insurance benefits for long-term
unemployed workers; and (v) improvements in the training and retraining system.
Besides these measures, the Administration has recently sent to Congress a proposal of
constitutional reform which reduces the restrictions for union organization and creates
incentives for direct collective bargaining between unions and employees.  These
measures and proposals aim to provide a more encompassing safety net for the
unemployed, reduce job destruction, increase the proportion of formal labor contracts and
promote labor productivity. There has been useful joint work with the World Bank in
this area, making available international experience. It is expected that this dialogue will
continue.
10.   Brazil's current indirect tax system is inefficient and unduly complex; it includes
cascading taxes which hamper Brazil's competitiveness. The government is, therefore,
attaching great importance to presenting to Congress before the end of this year tax
reform legislation that will address these weaknesses. The reform is expected to create a
nation-wide VAT, with a common base and rate structure, that is shared among the
different levels of government and administered by the states. The new VAT will replace
a number of existing taxes, thereby greatly simplifying tax administration and reducing
distortions. The CPMF will be transformed into a tax which is deductible from other
Federal taxes, in order to attenuate any possible impact on the efficiency of financial
intermediation. Appropriate adjustments will need to be made in the system of revenue
sharing and expenditure assignment among different levels of government, to ensure that
any losses or gains induced by the reform are compensated for.
11.   Well-targeted and efficient social expenditure programs play a vital role in the
alleviation of poverty and in the development of human capital. Apart from the pension
system, most social expenditure programs are in the domain of the states, but the federal
government is responsible for financing a part of this expenditure, and has social
expenditure programs of its own. The government intends to give priority to primary
education and basic health in the allocation of social expenditures, to promote the more
efficient use and financing of health and education, particularly at the higher levels; and
to better target social expenditures to the poor. Brazil has made significant progress in
the past two years in constructing a stronger social protection system and in strengthening
the federal role in guaranteeing a minimum level of investment in the human capital of
the poor, as part of a medium-term strategy to increase labor income of the poor and
thereby reduce inequality. In education and health, programs are now in place that
provide a floor for expenditures for basic services, targeted federal subsidies for non-
71



salary inputs and community-level decision-making that will improve the equity and
efficiency of these programs. Programs in the social assistance area provide a safety net
for youngsters, the disabled, and the aged who live in poor households. Labor market
programs provide unemployment insurance for formal sector workers, and these benefits
have recently been expanded for those who may be unemployed for periods exceeding
twelve months. The Government is committed to maintaining expenditures in these
programs in the 1999 budget despite severe budgetary pressure; these efforts to maintain
and strengthen the social protection system will be supported by the World Bank and the
Inter-American Development Bank.
12.   The process of privatization and dismantling of public monopolies is contributing
to provision of better and more efficiently produced goods and services, and to the
renovation and modernization of the country's capital stock.  Deregulation of the
economy and the increased participation of foreign capital has generated important price
and technological externalities, raised productivity, improved resource allocation,
modernized management practices, and connected Brazilian corporations with major
global players, thereby improving the long-run prospects and efficiency of the economy.
The government is committed to strengthening expertise and effectiveness of
infrastructure regulation at both federal and state levels. This may be an area for
continued interaction with the World Bank.
13.   Although the high interest rates of the past year have put a strain on some of the
country's smaller banks, the banking system as a whole has weathered this period well.
While the share of nonperforming loans in total loans outstanding did rise from 6.9
percent as of December, 1997 to 8.3 percent in August, 1998 provisioning for bad loans
reached 145 percent in that month. Capital adequacy ratios among the top private
domestic banks are on the order of 15 percent (tier 1 capital) or higher, well in excess of
Basle recommendations. With the support of the World Bank, considerable strides have
been made in implementing the 25 basic principles of the Basle Committee on Banking
Supervision, and the government believes that Brazil can be fully compliant by the year
2000. Also with the World Bank's support, the Central Bank will commission an expert
group to develop a medium-term perspective for the evolution of depositary institutions
in the years to come, taking into account the new lines of business and competition that
are likely to emerge, and the much greater competitiveness of the domestic banking
industry. The difficulties of the state banking system are now largely resolved, in some
cases with World Bank support. The number of state financial institutions will have been
reduced from 35 to 11 once the restructuring process is concluded, and their share in the
total deposit of the Brazilian financial system is to be reduced by two-thirds to about 7
percent of the total by end-1999.
14.   The government intends to continue the policy of trade liberalization, which
characterized the first mandate of President Cardoso. It will continue to promote the
integration of the Brazilian economy with those of its MERCOSUL and other regional
trading partners, and will also aim to increase trade with countries outside the region.
Brazil will not impose trade restrictions which are inconsistent with the World Trade
Organization (WTO) commitments or, within the context of a program with the Fund,
restrictions based on balance of payments reasons. The government will continue to
promote the competitiveness of Brazil's exports through steps aimed at leveling the
72



playing field for Brazilian exporters, facilitating access to financing and to export credit
insurance, in line with WTO regulations.
The Plan of Action
15.   The current difficult international economic environment inevitably conditions the
macroeconomic outlook for 1999. From the fourth quarter of 1998 to the fourth quarter
of 1999 real GDP growth should be positive, since economic activity is expected to
recover in the course of 1999, and should thereafter accelerate to 3 percent and 4 percent
in 2000 and 2001, respectively. The rate of inflation should be around 2 percent in 1999.
The external current account deficit is expected to decline from 4.2 percent of GDP in
1998 to around 3 1/2 percent of GDP in 1999, and to be maintained around this level in
subsequent years.
16.   Reflecting the recent pattern, it is projected that more than half of the current
account deficit will be financed by foreign direct investment in 1999. As confidence
recovers and the international environment improves, it is expected that private lenders in
aggregate will renew maturing banking lines as well as notes and bonds. Short-term lines
have recently shown recovery. World Bank special adjustment lending forms part of an
international support package to assist Brazil in crisis prevention and management,
thereby permitting an orderly adjustment in the current account deficit and helping to
sustain the government's overall reform effort. Since World Bank support is intended to
be fiscally neutral, at the margin it will permit reduced market financing of the
government's deficit.
17.   To promote confidence and facilitate a sustained reduction in interest rates the
government has announced a substantially front-loaded fiscal adjustment program. This
program sets as a target for the primary balance of the consolidated public sector a
surplus equivalent to 2.6 percent of GDP in 1999. This surplus is targeted to rise further
to 2.8 percent of GDP in 2000 and to 3.0 percent in 2001. On the basis of conservative
estimates regarding developments in interest rates, privatization revenues and the
recognition of hitherto implicit public sector liabilities, these increasing primary
surpluses are expected to arrest the growth of the net public debt in relation to GDP by
2000.
18.   The states and municipalities are expected to contribute to the fiscal adjustment
effort with a shift in their consolidated primary balance from an estimated deficit
equivalent to 0.4 percent of GDP in 1998 to a surplus of 0.4 percent of GDP in 1999,
rising further to 0.5 percent in 2000 and 2001. To help ensure the achievement of these
targets, the federal government will enforce firmly the commitments undertaken by the
states in the context of their debt restructuring agreements with the federal government.
The fiscal adjustment programs agreed with the states include specific targets for each
state with respect to the primary balance, the revenue performance, and the ratios of
payroll, investment spending and debt to revenues, and privatization and other structural
reforms. Also, the privatization or liquidation of most state banks, and the enforcement
of strict prudential standards on the remaining ones, as well as the ongoing widespread
privatization of state enterprises, have eliminated most avenues for deficit financing by
the states.  The issues of state finances, state privatization, state banks and state
73



indebtedness have been an important feature of the World Bank's long-term assistance
program for Brazil; the Bank is also an important financier of investment at the state
level.  The World Bank's proposed program  of special adjustment loans for
administrative reform is intended to support the Government's policies to ensure that the
states meet their fiscal adjustment goals. The Bank will also support the efforts of the
Federal authorities in creating appropriate incentives for the resumption of essential
investment financing at the state level over the medium term.
19.   In the management of the domestic public debt, the treasury and the central bank
will give priority to securing a progressive lengthening of the maturity of the debt to
reduce gross refinancing requirements. The expected decline in interest rates, as risk
premia on the Brazilian and domestic debt are reduced by the recovery of confidence,
will provide an opportunity to begin increasing again the share of fixed-rate securities in
the debt at an acceptable cost. The World Bank is currently assisting the authorities in
developing a more integrated analytic approach to public debt management. Given the
importance of this issue, the government may request additional assistance for
implementation of any recommendations that emerge from this study.
20.   Brazil's external debt is not very high in relation to GDP (29 percent), and its
average maturity is relatively long. The public sector component of the external debt
accounts for no more than one-third of the total, and public sector short-term debt is less
than US$6 billion. It is the government's intention to keep the increase of the public
sector external debt within prudent limits, around US$10 billion in 1999. It is also the
government's intention to promote a gradual further lengthening of the average maturity
of the total external debt, as market conditions permit. There is scope for improving the
overall monitoring of external debt, and in particular for compiling and disseminating
more timely information on composition by type of instrument and creditor.  The
government will take action to deal with these shortcomings in the information base, and
in this connection, will seek assistance from the World Bank, the IMF and other relevant
agencies.
Brasilia, December 9, 1998
74



Letter of Sector Policy
Social Policy Letter
1.  Some of the most important results from the economic stability program were the
elimination of the inflation tax and the increase of purchasing power of those earning
minimum wage and of millions of pension benefits. This has allowed for the reduction of
the number of destitute and poor families and for the incorporation of millions of
Brazilians in the consumer market. In addition, great efforts were made to invest more
socially and to spend funds better. Consequently, management of social programs was
improved upon by focusing and concentrating the action in the municipalities and social
groups that were most in need, using the Comunidade Solidaria program, the seed of a
promising partnership between the government and society. During these last four years,
society was mobilized and a new form of care policy was established, breaking with
political clientelism of the past.
2.  In addition to decisively contributing to keeping the Country's expenses with social
programs above twenty percent of the GDP, the Federal Government revolutionized the
provision of basic social services under the public responsibility. This was done by
proposing and developing a long-term strategy for social development, whose main
initiatives will be described next. In the educational area, priority was given to basic
education, creating the fund for teacher quality improvement and initiating a major effort
to place all seven- to fourteen-year-old children in school. Currently, 95% of the children
in this age bracket are registered in school, and the educational system normative
landmark has been updated with the Law of Guidelines and Bases and the National
Educational Plan. The Ministry of Education is being reorganized and the distance
leaming, school food, and school transportation programs are being guaranteed. As far as
health is concerned, a broad program consisting of teams of family doctors (3,500 teams)
and of health community agents (100,000 agents) has been created. This has reduced the
child mortality rate, has made the women's health program more dynamic, and has
generated one of the best care services for AIDS patients. As for the other areas,
professional training is being encouraged and the largest land reform program in the
world is being carried out, which is larger than anything else ever done in Brazil in any
given period of time. Also, there is a major improvement in the actual value of pension
benefits given to poor retired citizens. Additionally, in accordance with new rules, the
federal financing for the acquisition and the construction of new homes and for sanitation
works, as well as the decentralization of social work actions have been resumed.
Social Protection Net
3.   The Brazilian government's social policy is not restricted to the set of programs
selected to be part of the basic social safety net, which is the object of the agreement with
Multilateral Development Banks. The Federal Government is committed to a broad and
complex long-term social strategy, made up of about fifty programs and activities. The
stability policy and the fiscal adjustment program, are necessary, although not
insufficient, to implement this strategy.
75



4.   The objective of this strategy is to offer basic social services (such as basic health
care and education) to every Brazilian and, together with programs targeting more
deprived social groups and areas, provide adequate social protection to the poorer
segments of the population. This strategy also includes some programs whose operation
and/or financing standard include counter-cyclical mechanisms. The objective of these
mechanisms is to guarantee, during stagnation or during a decrease in economic
activities, adequate protection through unemployment insurance, benefits to the elderly
and to the poor disabled citizens (LOAS), and credit and professional training programs
(PRONAF, PROGER, and PLANFOR).
5.   For this, the Federal Government has been and will be attempting to:
a) maintain the efforts of public social expenditure at the current level, but with the
increase in the decentralization process of these allocations;
b) modify the structure of social protection benefits and services, by reforming
institutions and programs, with the objective of increasing the social expenditure
redistributive impact in Brazil;
c) increase the quality of these expenditures, with the objective of making them more
efficient and effective, by improving the programs and their management;
d) develop efforts so that the programs can reach more deprived areas and population
groups in the Country, thus creating and multiplying specific mechanisms to achieve
this goal, and, whenever is appropriate, improving the focus of programs such as the
program for the eradication of child labor and other programs that are part of
COMUNIDADE SOLIDARIA.
6.  It should also be pointed out that some of the Federal Government's social
programs have been passed as laws, such as the LOAS and the Unemployment Insurance,
which guarantees the availability of resources necessary to carry them out, thus covering
all the eligible recipients.
7.  The Federal Government has been paying a lot of attention to programs benefiting
the economic informal sector, which, in Brazil, encompasses a heterogeneous set of
occupational and social conditions, including a significant number of the urban poor.
The Federal Government already has a set of programs offering services and benefits to
different sectors, such as land reform, PRONAF, PROGER, and PLANFOR, in addition
to basic education, health and social work programs. It will continue to pay attention to
the fiscal adjustment's impact and to study forms and mechanisms to cope with this
impact, when necessary, on such segments of the population, as was the case during the
drought in the Country's Northeast region.
8.  As mentioned before, the revision of the budget proposal for 1999, which became
necessary due to the fiscal adjustment, could have meant changes in the amounts
allocated to the financing of some of the Federal Government's important social
programs. In order to avoid the impoverishment of groups, which are more vulnerable to
these adjustments, the Federal Government has been carrying on its social policy. And,
76



with the support of the Inter-American Development and World Bank, it has decided to
select and to include in the Bill for the 1999 Budget* the necessary budgetary amounts for
the maintenance and, in some cases, the growth of programs considered a priority for the
creation of a social safety net for these groups.
9. These programs, which are part of this social development strategy, were chosen
according to the following objectives and criteria:
i)     Social protection programs based upon constitutional or legal devices that
guarantee their continuity, means of operation, and sources of financing, even
during adverse economic scenarios;
ii)    Social protection programs for the main risks encountered during different life
stages, such as childhood, adulthood, and old age;
iii)    Programs that provide basic services that are mandatory not only to protect the
more deprived populace but also to increase their cultural and social capital,
which is of major importance in overcoming poverty;
iv)    Programs that are better focused and have a better distribution impact.
10. Based upon these objectives and criteria, the following programs have been
selected for basic education, health, social assistance, and labor (Selected Programs):
i)     Ministry of Education:  Distribution of Books to Students and Libraries,
Students' Health; School Food, Efficient Management of the Public Schools,
Complementation to FUNDEF, and the Fund for Strengthening the School
(FUNDESCOLA);
ii)    Ministry  of Health:   to Fight Against Nutritional Deprivation, National
Pharnaceutical Assistance Program-(SUS Basic Drugs; National Immunization
Program), SUS's Basic Care Floor (PAB); Health Care Community Agents
(PACS) and Family Health Program (PSF), and Full Care to Women's Health
Program (PAISM);
iii)    Ministry of Pensions and Social Assistance:  Support to Deprived Children;
Support to the Citizen, the Family and the Disabled; Support to the Elderly; Grant
and Maintenance of Benefits to the deprived disabled and elderly in accordance
with the Social Work Fundamental Law (LOAS); Support to the Fight Against
Once the Budget is approved by Congress, mechanisms can be used by the Federal Government, in order
to, if it is necessary during the implementation of the programs, to deal with additional expenditures
relative to the amount approved by Congress: (i) resources can be reallocated in the budgets of each
respective Ministry, increasing by up to 1 5percent the amounts provided to the programs (a proposal
to increase these limits to 30percent has been presented to Congress); (ii) request a supplementary
appropriation to the National Congress increasing the amounts allocated to specific programs, in
compliance with the limits imposed by the fiscal adjustment in the agreement with the IMF.
77



Children's and Adolescents' Labor, Integrated Assistance to Children and
Adolescents, and Guarantee of Minimum Income Program; and
iv)   Ministry of Labor: Maintenance of Unemployment Insurance, Salary Bonus,
and Professional Training.
11. As far as the fiscal adjustment program is concerned, an attempt was made to give
priority in the budget proposal to these Ministries and to their Selected Programs. In
addition to that, the Federal Government is developing a mechanism, which is similar to
the one used in the Brazil in Action Program, to guarantee that the resources allocated to
the Selected Programs are not used in other Federal Government's programs. Next, we
will present a brief description of the general policy for these four areas and for the
Selected Programs.
EDUCATION
(a) Policy for Basic Education
12.  The reforms and actions developed for education from 1995 and 1998 have created
the conditions to assemble a bold program to change and diversify the Brazilian
Educational System, emphasizing the improvement in the teaching quality in all grades.
During the next four years, the Federal Government has proposed to consolidate basic
education, to expand and to improve secondary and professional education, and to expand
and to improve higher education, in accordance with the modern systems of autonomous
management and efficiency.
13. The objectives for the basic education program include the following items,
among others. There will be broader access of children between seven and fourteen to
education and an increase in the number of students finishing the grades corresponding to
basic education.  We will establish the criteria to allocate resources to states and
municipalities based upon quality and school performance indexes, such as the Basic
Education Evaluation System (SAEB), consequently encouraging the community's
participation in the School Councils or equivalent bodies for school management,
including the management of resources directed to the school. The result will be greater
school autonomy both in pedagogical projects and public resources management.
14. The objectives for the secondary education program are, among others,
coordinating with the States actions that will guarantee the expansion of secondary
courses to cover all students who have finished the basic education courses and the young
adults that wish to go back to school; support to the states in reorganizing the educational
networks according to pedagogical and organizational efficiency criteria and for
buildings where youngsters and young adults will attend courses; investing, together with
the state, in the expansion of the physical network of secondary education and in
adequately equipping schools, thereby encouraging the States to progressively increase
the investments in secondary education; establishing permanent evaluation systems for
secondary education, bringing together the national and the state systems; and finally
encouraging distance learning, both for secondary education and for the education and
qualification of teachers.
78



15. The objectives for the professional education program include the following,
among others; to implement the professional education reform, establishing partnerships
among the state, municipal and federal educational systems and the private sector in order
to broaden the offering of professional courses; to mobilize and strengthen the capacity of
the networks of the professional education institutions; to review and strengthen the
relevance of the basic, technical and higher professional education courses in relation to
the local and regional needs of the labor market, by means of cooperation among
employers, workers and unions.
16.  The commitment to improve the quality of teachers includes, among other things,
a professional education that guarantees proficiency in the subject to be taught and
experience in the classroom and in the pedagogical methods needed for good
performance at school; a continuous education system that allows the teachers to broaden
their proficiency in an educated atmosphere, within a critical view and from the
perspective of new humanism; a working time synchronized with the students' studying
time, preferably concentrated in one single school, also including the time needed for
activities complementary to the classroom work.
17.  The regional inequalities of the education systems will remain the focus of our
attention. Integration of actions of the three government levels in the more deprived
areas will be intensified.
(b) Selected Education Programs
18. The Federal Government has restated its commitment to the Selected Education
Programs, whose direct or indirect impact affects most of the Brazilian school population,
by continuing to carry on the actions to improve the efficient use of resources, by
decentralizing the performance of these actions, and by, whenever necessary, adopting
measures to better focus these programs. These are the Selected programs and the
specific measures for their improvement that the Federal Government intends to
implement during the next four years:
i)    SCHOOL FOOD PROGRAM: Proceed with the universalization of the direct
transfer of program's resources to all municipalities in the Country;
ii)   PUBLIC SCHOOLS EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM: Proceed
with the universalization of the direct transfer of this program's resources to the
schools, thus simplifying the mechanisms of resources reallocation and of
accountability.
iii)   FUNDEF'S RESOURCES COMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM: Evaluate
FUNDEF's impact in the municipalities, especially concerning municipalization
and distribution, improvement of infrastructure, of the coverage rates, of the
teachers' salary levels, and of the pedagogical results in the municipalities
benefiting from the program. Based on this evaluation, the Federal government
79



intends to establish an annual follow-up methodology for FUNDEF  and to study
the mechanisms that may allow the long-term maintenance of a basic floor
consistent with the program's objectives.
iv)  PROGRAM FOR THE DISTRIBUTION OF BOOKS TO STUDENTS AND
LIBRARIES: Guarantee the universal distribution of schoolbooks to every
student attending  the public  basic  education  system.   As necessary, the
distribution of books to the students will have priority in relation to the
distribution to libraries.
HEALTH
(a) Health Policy
19.  Significant developments occurred in the health sector in the last four years. The
decentralization of the United Health System (SUS) is being consolidated, allowing the
system to meet the needs of the population, with the transfer of power and of
responsibilities to the municipalities.
20. During the next years, the Federal Government will examine the financing forms
and the priorities of specialized ambulatory care and of the hospital care, including
emergency, diagnostic, and treatment services. The distribution of resources will be
reevaluated, taking into consideration epidemiological profiles, so that the more deprived
strata of the population can be assisted, thus improving equity. The objectives of the
Federal Government are the following:
i)     to define a new resource distribution policy in the sector, guided by demand and
in accordance with the following parameters: a) adequacy of health services
relative to the epidemiological profile; b) establishment of primary care as the
entry for patients into SUS; c) clear definition of the roles of the public and
private sectors; d) establishment of incentives for the efficient use of public
resources in health, thus strengthening the management commitment among the
federal level, the states, and the municipalities; e) production of services with high
impact on health indexes; and f) strengthening social control over the health
sector;
FUNDEF is one of the Federal Government's main programs. The initial budget proposal presented to
Congress provided for the total amount estimated to carry out the program, based on the information
available to the Ministry of Education and Sports during the time that it was developed. In spite of
the fiscal adjustment in the agreement with the IMF, that favored the reduction in the Federal
government's expenditure, the new budget proposal presented to Congress preserved the full amount
allocated to the program. More recently, new estimates, which are currently being evaluated, indicate
growth in the number of students' registrations as a result of the Program's success. Projections for
the collection of taxes in the states and municipalities were calculated, resulting in projections for an
increase in costs for the Federal Govemment. Once this increase in costs is confirmed during the
execution of the Program, the Federal Government may make use of the mechanisms described above
(reallocation of 15% or 30%, or request of complementary credit to Congress) to maintain full
funding.
80



ii)   to encourage the establishment of a hospital accreditation system at different
levels, taking into consideration the human resource capacity, qualification and
performance, as well as the equipment availability, among other indexes;
iii)  to implement and consolidate the Basic Assistance Floor in every municipality;
iv)   to enable the states, the Federal District and the municipalities to have
decentralized health care system management forms, so that they can be fully
responsible for the coordination and the execution of health care services, directly
and automatically receiving financial resources in their own funds from the
National Health Fund;
v)   to develop and encourage the implementation of processes that lead to the
autonomous management of the public health establishments, which will make
them more efficient;
vi)  to improve the SUS's auditing, control, and managerial systems, enabling the
creation of tools that facilitate the planning of health care actions at local level, as
well as the development of a culture of transparent infornation; and
vii)  to establish compensation processes for the costs of services provided by SUS to
the recipients of private health service plans and insurance, in order to promote
equity and to increase the capacity for financial support of public health care
services.
(b) Selected Health Programs
21. Within these guidelines, the Ministry of Health, in order to face the challenges
resulting from the fiscal adjustments, will give additional emphasis to the Selected
Programs in its sector:
i)    BASIC CARE FLOOR (PAB): PAB guarantees the financing of a set of low
cost and highly effective health care actions for municipalities that have the
capacity to fully manage basic health care. The implementation of PAB has the
following goals: a) to contribute to the decentralization process of health care
actions; b) to organize the health care system to meet the demand; c) to give
priority to prevention, emphasizing basic health care; d) to evaluate the impact of
the health care programs on the life conditions of the population.
ii)   FAMILY HEALTH PROGRAM (PSF): PSF will increase the promotion and
prevention efforts of the health care services, which were initiated with the Health
Care Community Agents (PACS), by increasing the quality of basic health care,
in a broader and fuller perspective, functioning not only as a single way into the
system, but also as an efficient system for the services network hierarchy. The
Federal Governments wants PSF to function as a community and educational
focus for health care, giving priority to prevention and to the care of each family
member. The main strategy of this program is to gradually increase the
decentralization of specific resources to the Municipalities.
81



iii)   BASIC PHARMACEUTICAL CARE PROGRAM  (PAFB):  The Federal
Government, by means of this program, complements the basic health care cycle,
allowing the access of deprived groups of the population to basic medications,
available in the basic health care network. Consequently, a pool of federal, state,
and municipal resources will finance a list of medications proven to be efficient in
the treatment of the most common diseases in the Country.
iv)   NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION PROGRAM (PNI): The Federal Government
intends to increase the coverage of routine actions performed by PNI in every
state and municipality, in order to achieve the goal of eradicating neonatal
measles and tetanus, to maintain the eradication of poliomyelitis and to control
diphtheria, whooping-cough, and hepatitis B. The annual multi-vaccination
campaigns will be maintained as a coverage strategy.
v)    FIGHT AGAINST NUTRITIONAL DEPRIVATION PROGRAM: The fight
against malnutrition will encompass all municipalities by means of a direct and
automatic monthly allocation of specific resources of the Program, together with
PAB. The goal is to guarantee the foreseen actions, decentralizing food purchase
and distribution, improving national information systems in health care, so that
each Municipality can monitor the nutritional risk conditions in its territory,
especially in the case of children.
vi)   FULL CARE PROGRAM TO WOMEN'S HEALTH (PAISM): PAISM's
main goals are: a) to reduce the occurrence of cervical cancer and the deaths
caused by it, by taking Pap smears of women mainly from 35 to 49 years of age,
thus guaranteeing the treatment of positive cases; b) to improve birth care, by
humanizing the assistance, encouraging normal delivery, reducing the number of
Caesarian sections and guaranteeing treatment in case of high risk pregnancies; c)
to develop specific programs to reduce sexually transmitted diseases in women
and the vertical transmission of HIV during pregnancy; e) to support hospitals so
that they can receive and maintain the quality stamps "Child Friendly Hospital"
and "Safe Maternity Ward", granted by the accreditation systems.
SOCIAL ASSISTANCE
(a) Social Assistance Policy
22. The Federal Government has a broad social work prograrn in all 27 states of the
Federation, focusing on the family and on integrated local development. For that, it has
been following Law 8,742, of December 7, 1994, Social Work Fundamental Law
(LOAS), that sets benefits, services, programs and projects for vulnerable and socially
excluded population groups.
23. The Federal Government's main objectives for this sector for the next four years
are: efficiency improvement, decentralization, service quality, and continuous social
work network organization; simplification of the procedures to transfer resources;
82



participation in society by strengthening the social work councils in the three government
spheres; modernization of the social work public management and of technical care.
24. The Federal Government's social work is based on the principle of equal
opportunity and on the promotion of citizens' rights, and it takes into consideration direct
income transfer programs. As a whole, these programs make up an important social
protection system to help the population face different situations of need and of risk;
disability to work and unemployment, preventing the families from taking the children
out of school in order to work.
(b) Social Assistance Selected Programs
25. The Selected Programs for Social assistance are the following:
i)    SUPPORT PROGRAM FOR DEPRIVED CHILDREN: It has the objective
of providing full assistance to children from 0 to 6 years of age and is offered at
day-care centers (children from 0 to 3), pre-school centers (children from 0 to 6)
and by educational and assistance institutions. It is a service that complements
the education offered within the family and in social life, and is mandatory to the
children's full development. The program covers more than 1.4 million people.
ii)    SUPPORT PROGRAM  TO THE CITIZEN, THE FAMILY AND THE
DISABLED: The care program for the disabled is part of a set of programs
developed by basic social policies: health, education and social work in the three
government spheres and in a partnership with social entities and organizations.
The program covers more than 120 thousand people.
iii)   SUPPORT PROGRAM  TO THE ELDERLY:  It supports initiatives and
projects that have the objective of improving the quality of life of the elderly and
of providing their integration to the community, currently covering more than 260
thousand people.
iv)   PROGRAM  TO ERADICATE CHILD LABOR:  The program considers
financial support to families in rural areas that become vulnerable due to poverty,
which is the main cause of the early inclusion of children and adolescents in the
labor market. This support is offered by means of governmental organizations in
a partnership with the civil society (unions, councils, state committees, etc.) found
in the municipalities affected by child labor, especially slave, hard or degrading
labor. The program has a network of partnerships and local control that favors the
supervision and technical assistance process in the municipalities to care for
almost 120 thousand recipients.
v)    CHILD CITIZEN BRAZIL PROGRAM: The objective of this program is to
meet the demands for minimum quality of life standards, mandatory to the
preservation of the citizenship principals. It targets children between 7 and 14
years of age and basically has the objective of complementing the school time,
providing cultural and leisure activities, currently benefiting more than 430
thousand children and adolescents.
83



vi)   MINIMUM INCOME GUARANTEE PROGRAM: It has the objective of
assisting fanilies with a family per capita income below half minimum wage,
with children or dependents below 14 years of age, residing in municipalities with
a declared income below the state average, in order to guarantee the children's
permanence and the success at school.
vii)   BENEFIT OF CONTINUOUS PROVISION: An assistance benefit that does
not have a tax base and corresponds to a minimum income paid to the elderly and
to the disabled living with families whose per capita income is below one fourth
of the minimum wage. Almost 800 thousand families are being currently assisted.
26.  In order to increase the efficiency, the efficacy and the equity of the Selected
Programs in this area, the following activities would be developed:
i)    DECENTRALIZATION: It is the Federal Government's main objective for this
set of Selected Programs.  The Federal Governnent has the intention of
developing the management capacity of the social projects at a local level,
initially training about 30 individuals from state and municipal agencies who
work in the Social Assistance Selected Programs in the nine states where the
Federal Government has been working. Once these multiplying agents are
trained, the Federal Government intends to define an action plan to train agents at
a local level. This plan should count with the participation of social work state
secretariats. The Federal Government also has the intention of studying the
possibility of making use of the distance learning network to carry out these
courses. With the objective of promoting greater administrative and financial
responsibility of the municipalities in the Social Assistance Selected Programs,
the Federal Government intends to define a strategy to speed up the compliance
with Article 30 of the Social Work Fundamental Law. This strategy must have,
among other incentives, the above-mentioned training capabilities, as well as the
technical assistance services of the Social Work Secretariat and the state
secretariats.
ii)   EFFICIENCY: The Federal Government will continue to develop analysis and a
plan of action to establish procedures for improving the information systems of
the Selected Programs, in order to achieve greater coordination in the network.
This would facilitate exchange of information relevant to running the program
and to decision making on social welfare policy. The aim in so doing will be to
reduce the duplication of efforts entailed in maintaining the various systems as
well as to help make compatible the data contained in those systems. With regard
to program evaluation data, new evaluation and monitoring methodologies, which
are now in preparation, would be introduced.
iii)   EQUITY: Even though there are eligibility criteria based on family income for
the Selected Programs of Social Welfare, that verification is carried out by bodies
in addition to federal agencies, and by using different methodologies. Hence, the
Federal Government is seeking to define low cost tools for verifying family
incomes, that could be applied easily at the local, municipal or micro-region level
84



(for example, Colombia's SISBEN [Beneficiary Identification System] could be
useful). In addition, criteria for distribution or allocation of federal resources to
the different regions or states would be defined, including the parameters and
forms of matching contribution, thereby enabling the Federal Government to play
a role of compensating for regional differences. The population eligible for each
one of the programs would be defined on the basis of these criteria.
iv)   (iv) QUALITY  OF SERVICE:   Over the next four years the Federal
Government intends to implement the following measures with a view to
improving the Selected Programs of social Welfare:  Minimum  Quality
Standards: Define minimum standards of care and pass them to those managing
each of the Selected Programs of Social Welfare; Local Registries of Social
Welfare Providers:  Identify social welfare providers at the local level;
Competition: Hold competitive procedures to select service providers in the
Brazil Child Citizen Program and gradually introduce this procedure in the Needy
Child Program; Monitoring and Auditing: Refine mechanisms for systematic
monitoring and accounting of the Selected Programs, as well as their
methodology, in accordance with the competencies of agencies responsible on the
three levels of government; Serving the client: Assure that in all States and
Municipalities there is a service for dealing with the public providing information
and handling complaints on the operation and quality of social welfare services.
LABOR
(a) Labor Policy
27. Job creation in Brazil depends on sustained economic growth, which can only take
place with a stable currency. The best employment policy is therefore economic
development in a non-inflationary environment that is institutionally favorable for
expanding public and private investment. The aim of the Federal Government is to
prevent short-term macroeconomic unemployment from becoming long-term structural
unemployment.
28. The ability of the Brazilian labor market to create and maintain employment,
however, depends on the institutions that regulate its operation. Therefore it is crucial to
provide the country with modem and flexible labor legislation, in keeping with the
demands of an open and competitive economy.
29. In this regard, the Federal Government has sent to the National Congress a set of
proposals for reforming labor relations in Brazil.
30. Especially noteworthy within the set of proposals prepared by the Federal
Government in the labor area, is the Proposal for a Constitutional Amendment (PEC-
Proposta de Emenda Constitucional]) recently sent to the National Congress. The
proposed modification of articles 8, 111, and 114 of the Federal Constitution is aimed at:
a) freedom to create labor unions without having to observe criteria of professional or
economic classifications, and freedom to join or not; b) end of the monopoly of
representation that results from obligatory single unions; c) end of obligatory union
85



deductions enshrined in legislation and imposed on non-members; d) end of legal power
of the Labor Courts while retaining their standing to engage in voluntary arbitration in
collective economic conflicts, at the request of all parties; e) granting of legal standing to
labor unions, with regard to member-union relationships; f) establishment of non-judicial
procedures prior to mediation and conciliation in individual conflicts; g) provisions for
preparing the legislation needed for the transition to a system of non-obligatory union
membership.
31. As a Complement to the constitutional reform sought, the Federal Government has
presented to the National Congress a Bill suppressing obligatory union dues so as to
introduce a new procedure for making determinations of this kind, resulting from
authorization by the general assembly of the union.
32. In addition, the Federal Government, through Provisional Measure n. 1,726
(November 3, 1998), has established the scholarship for professional upgrading under a
new modality for suspending a labor contract. That measure serves to establish a
monthly scholarship fund for professional upgrading to be paid by the Worker Support
Fund (FAT [Fundo de Amparo ao Trabalhador]) within the Program of Unemployment
Insurance for an employee whose labor contract has been suspended--in accordance with
an arrangement envisioned in a convention or collective bargaining agreement signed by
the parties--and who is enrolled in a professional upgrading course or program paid for
by his or her own employer.
33. The aim with this initiative is to offer an alternative to layoffs, enabling employees
to be retrained professionally, and return to their jobs. This avoids contract cancellation,
a procedure that is a burden to the employer, traumatic for workers, and undesirable for
society. It also seeks to make Brazilian workers more employable.
34. The objective of Provisional Measure n. 1,709 (August 6, 1998) which "changes
arrangements of the Consolidation of Labor Laws, makes provision for part-time labor
and authorizes extension of the benefit of the Worker Nutrition Program (PAT-Programa
de Alimenta,ao ao Trabalhador]) to a worker who has been laid off, and particularly for
combating unemployment through a proposal for work week alternatives so as to
encourage the hiring of new employees to fill out the entire hourly time table of company
operation, as well as enhancing the so-called "hour bank" by extending the compensation
period to up to a year. The voluntary extension by the company of the PAT benefit to a
laid-off worker for up to six months also reduces the negative effects of unemployment.
(a) Selected Programs of the Ministry of Labor
i)    UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE: The Unemployment Insurance Program,
maintained by the Worker's Support Fund (FAT) constitutes temporary financial
assistance which is provided to a Brazilian worker who is involuntarily
unemployed. The aid lasts five months, and may in exceptional situations of
increased unemployment be extended to up to seven months by decision of the
Deliberating Council of the Worker Support Fund (CODEFAT), as happened in
the regions affected by drought in the Northeast of the country. In 1999 the
86



Federal Government intends to seek improvements in that program, by proposing
to CODEFAT that as of next year there be a supplementary benefit for what is
called long-term unemployment (12 to 18 months). After legal authorization,
with the enactment of Provisional Measure n. 1,726 (1998) and the CODEFAT
regulatory resolutions, the Federal Government can begin paying this
supplementary benefit to workers in that situation.
ii)    WAGE BONUS:  The Federal Government will continue the Wage Bonus
Program which is also paid for out of FAT funds, which enables wage workers
receiving less than two minimum wages to have the right to an annual bonus for
the sum of one minimum wage, as well as disbursements of a personal nature
from the fund remaining from PIS-PASEP payments.
iii)   NATIONAL PROGRAM  FOR UPGRADING WORKERS - PLANFOR:
The National Prograrn for Upgrading Workers (PLANFOR) seeks to enhance the
employability of Brazilian workers, increasing the likelihood that the employee
will retain his or her job and that one who is unemployed will get work. With the
Worker Support Fund (FAT) as a funding source, PLANFOR has been achieving
remarkable results. In the past four years around five million workers have been
trained. As of 1999 the aim is to target PLANFOR activities in accordance with
the following guidelines: extend linkages with States and Municipalities, through
State Upgrading Plans - (PEQs [Planos Estaduais de Qualificacao]); extend
partnerships with a wide range of institutions, seeking proposals for advancing
conceptually and methodologically in the area of training and qualification;
targeting the Selected Programs toward categories of unemployed workers, small
and microproducers, workers at risk of losing their jobs, freelance workers or
cooperative members; emphasizing actions to benefit more vulnerable groups, in
accordance with criteria of sex, age, schooling level, ethnic group, geographical
location and special needs.
*     *
35. Finally, it must be emphasized that the Federal Government will continue to
develop, refine, strengthen, and multiply the mechanisms created to target a specific and
restricted set of programs at especially poor and needy areas and strata in order to
develop innovating types of social welfare in partnership with the various sectors and
organizations of civil society, such as those today constituting the Community in
Solidarity Program, supporting the numerous initiatives in the area of integrated local
development, and including initiatives to encourage voluntary social service.
Sincerely,
Pedro Sampaio Malan
Minister of the Treasury
87



Annex 6 - Brazil - Key Economic Indicators
Actal                      Eoma                         PNced
Indicatr                    1994      1995       1996       1997       1998       1999       2000        2001        2002
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                        10M0       1() 1WM    M()       10(0.     1())0      11)0(1 1M() ()          10()       10(XO
Agriculture'                                   8.3        7.6       6.8        6 9        6.9        7 2         7.3         7.4         7 (,
Industry'                                     33 7       31.0      30(        3( 2       30 1       31 5        31 9        32.4        33 (
Servicesa                                    42.2        45.9      47 8       48 5       46.2       44 4        44 1        43 6        43 (
Iotal Consumption                              77.5       79.5       814       814        8116       8) 8        79 5        78.2        78 1
Gross domestic fixed                           2().7      2(1 5      19 1       19.6      2(0.3       19 ()       19.8       21.()       21()
investment
Government investment                          3 6        2 5       2 3        2.2        2.7         1.3        1 5         1 5         2 .)
Private investment                            185        19.8       184       19.()      186        18.7        19.3        2(05        2(1)t
(includes increase in
stocks)
lExports (GNFS)b                                9.5        7.7        7.1       7.6         7 4        8.6         9 4        9.9         1().()
Imports (GNFS)                                  9.2        9.5        9 2      1(.2         9 3        9.4         97        1()()       1()1.
(irossdomestic savings                         22.5       2(15       186        18.6       194        19.2        2(15       21.8         21 9
(iross tiational savings'                      21.3        19.5      17.3       16.9       17 1       16.3        17 1        184        1X6
Memorandum ilelns
(iross domestic product                     546486    7(03912    774946   820381    778292          735944     7378(08     763765      8(06251
(UIS$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per                   302(0.1(    36711.11    441 .0)   472(0 ()    479(0.0)    452(0.10  438(0.0)    438(0.01  447(0.))
capita (US$. Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(1% calculated from 198(0
prices)
Gross domestic product at                    5,9%       4.2%      2.8%       3.2%       ().5%      -1.(1%      3.11%       4.0(%       4.()%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                        5.6%       4.9%      24%        3.7%       1 3%       - 1.%       3.0%        4.1%        4.(%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%. calculated
from 1981) prices)
(iross domestic product at                   4 4%/o     2 8%       1.4%      1. X%    -1I()%     -2.5%        1.5%        2.5%        2.5%
market prices
Total consumption                            4 4%o      4 9%      2.3%/i)    2.4%     -( 6%       -2.4%      -0 1%        0.9%        2.4%
Private consumption                          76%       14 8%6     ((4%,6     1 ()%     -1.2%       -2.4%      -0.6%        1.0%        2.4%
(Continued)
88



Annex 6 - Brazil - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                    Estimat                    Projected
Indicator                 1994       1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000       2001        200.
Balance of Payments
(WISWm)
Exports ((NFS)b                         467(02.0   49544 0   51853.0)  5682710   578274   63321.2   6943(15    75248.6    804746
Merchandise FOB                       43545.()   46506 0   47747.0)  52986.0   53776 6   57685.6   63463 3    68918 0    73752 0
Imports(GNFS)b                          40131 0   58749 (   64958 0   74154 0   72164 4   69058 7    71772 2    766896    81279 4
Merchandise FOB                       33079(0   49858.1)  532860   61354))   58859 7   55496 5    578305    620288    65697 5
Resource balance                         6571.0   -9205.1)  -13105.0  -17327 0   -14337 1   -5737.(    -2341 7    -1441 0       -804 7
Net current transfers                     2588.0)   3973.0)   28991)   222(0()    11435       1344.0     13445      13449       1345.4
(including official current
transfiers)
Current account balance                  -1689()  -17972 )  -24347.1)  -33439.0  -32388 3   -27(030) 1   -275)3 9   -27312 9   -27959 1
(atler official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct                2356.1)    4778 ()   9644 ()  17879.0)  2390)0 ()  188()()()   15)() (1   1)(()1)() (  I ()()() ()
investment
Long-term loans (net)                     4421()    6547.0)  12681.0  184(19(1   31892.7    5798.7   23278.0    14426.3    152473
Otficial                                -2134.2   -1577.3    -534 2    16297      2667.1)    5232.1)    1841.1     19811.3     2141 8
Private                                  6555.2    8124.3   132152   16779.3   2922S.7        566.7   21436.9    12446.0    13105.4
Other capital (net. including             7851 )   20)127 (   110)39.01 -1()659.0  -37851).)    6951)1)   -370)0)1   1250()0    8001)()
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                     -12939.11  -13480).)  -90)17.()   7811) ()   14445.5   -4518.6   -71)74.1    -9613.4    -5288.2
Mtemorandumr itemns
Resource halance (% of                      1.2%      -1 3%     -1.7%,6   -2.1%      -1 8%      1)8%      -0.3%       -) 2%      -0. 1%
(GDI' at current market
prices)
Real annual growvth rates
(1981) prices)
Merchandise exports                        7.2%       ) 6%      4.3%      1.8%      67%        7.1%       7 2%       5.9%        4.4%
(FOB)
Primary                                  176%       -1 9%      56%       6.1%      22%        3.8%       4.1%       4.3%        44%
Manuftactures                             2 7%     -2 ()%      5 3%    (1)1%      13 8%       9.4%       9 3%       68%         4.4%
Merchandise imports                       25.5%      38.7%      6 1%6    14.05%    8 3%      -7.6%       1 (%       4.6%        3.5%
(C IF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Currentreyenues                             322       329       286       29.3       31.5       33.1)      33.1       33.1        33.)
Current expenditures                        27 4      3() 0     29 5      27.8       28.8       30).7      29.4       29.1        29 0
89



Annex 6 - Brazil - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Achtal                     Estimate                    Projected
Indicator                  1994       1995       1996      1997      1998        1999       2000       2001        2002
Currentaccountsurplus(+)                      4.8        2.9       -09        L5         2.7        2 3         3.7        4.0         4.1
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                           4.8        4.8        5()       4.9        4.9        3.5         3.6        3.5         3.0
Foreign financing                                                  -0.2      -02        -.1I        0 7         1.4        05          -0.3
Monetary indicators
M2/G(DP (at current market                   41.7       29.7       27 7      29 4       29.4       29 4       29.4        29.4        29.4
prices)
GrowthofM2 (%)                             1211.9       31.9       12.2      18.4        3 9        1.2         5.3        6.3         6.1
I'rivatesectorcreditgrowth/                  81.6      115.9        9.3      42.6      -55.6       349        45.3        34.9       113.2
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1980 =100)
Merchandise export price                    120.3      127.7      125.6     1369       130.3      130t4       133.8      137.2       140 6
index
Merchandise import price                    114.7      124.X      125.5     126.2      111.9      114 2       117.8      120.9       123 7
index
Merchandise terms of trade                  104.9      1(2.3      10( 1     108.5      116.4      114.2       113.5      113.5       113.6
index
Realexchangerate                            142.9      162.6      154.6     146.9      146.6      155.5       163.9      169.1       171.0
(oICuJ/S$V)
Consumer price index                     21175.9%     66.(%      I 58%      6.9%       2.7%       2.3%        2(0%        2.0%        1.9%
(% growth rate)
Gi)Pdeflator                             2239.1%       77.6%     17.2%      7.8%       3.3%       2.2%        2.2%        2.20/%      20%
(% growth rate)
a. (iG)P components are estimated at factor cost
h. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding oflicial capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
c. Federal Govemment. States and Municipalities
J "I.ClJ" denotes "local currency units." An increase in LCI l/US$ denotes depreciation.
90



MOP Schedule D
Generated: 12/11/98
ANNEX 7- STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
OPERATIONS PORTFOLIO
As of 07-Dec-98
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 184
Active Projects
BR-PE-43874     1999   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL              DISEASE SURVEILLANCE                   100.00         0.00        0.00             100.00        0.00        0.00
BR-PE-54120     1999   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL              AIDS 2                                 165.00         0.00        0.00             165.00        0.00        0.00
BR-PE-58129     1999   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT                EMER. FIRE PREVENTIO                     15.00        0.00        0.00              15.00        0.00        0.00
BR-PE-35728     1998   STATE OF BAHIA                    BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                     51.00         0.00        0.00              44.65       14.79        0.00
BR-PE-38895     1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL              FED.WTR MGT                            198.00         0.00        0.00             187.26       24.26        0.00
BR-PE-38947     1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL              SC. 6 TECH 3                           155.00         0.00        0.00             142.19       14.69        0.00
BR-PE-39197     1998   STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO           RJ ST.PRIV.                            250.00         0.00        0.00              57.87       49.54        0.00
BR-PE-40033     1998   THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS         MG STATE PRIV.                         170.00         0.00        0.00             170.00       66.67        0.00
BR-PE-42565     1998   STATE OF PARAIBA                  PARAIBA R.POVERTY                       60.00         0.00        0.00              53.11        2.01        0.00
BR-PE-43420     1998   FED. REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL           WATER S.MOD.2                          150.00         0.00        0.00            150.00        12.07        0.00
BR-PE-43421     1998   STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO           RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.                      186.00         0.00        0.00             186.00       49.44        0.00
BR-PE-48357     1998   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL                CEN.BANK TAL                            20.00         0.00        0.00              17.96        1.96        0.00
BR-PE-50762     1998   GOV. OF BRAZIL                    FUNDESCOLA1                             62.50         0.00        0.00              55.00       -1.25        0.00
BR-PE-51701     1998   STATE OF MARANHAO                 MARANHAO R.POVERTY                      80.00         0.00        0.00              76.18        8.22        0.00
BR-PE-57910     1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL              PENSION REFORM LIL                        5.00        0.00        0.00               5.00        0.00        0.00
BR-PE-6474      1998   STATE OF SAO PAULO                LAND MGT 3(SP)                          55.00         0.00        0.00              55.00        4.27        0.00
BR-PE-6549      1998   TBG                               GAS SCTR DEV PROJECT                   130.00         0.00        0.00             130.00        0.00        0.00
BR-PE-6559      1998   THE STATE OF SAO PAULO            (BF-R)SP.TSP                            45.00         0.00        0.00             45.00        15.09        0.00
BR-PE-34578     1997   RIO GRANDE DO SUL                 RGS HWY MGT                             70.00         0.00        0.00             66.70        15.04        0.00
BR-PE-38896     1997   STATE OF RGN                      R.POVERTY(RGN)                          24.00         0.00        0.00              15.64        2.05        0.00
BR-PE-39196     1997   STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SU         RGS ST.REFORM                          125.00         0.00        0.00             50.02        46.69        0.00
BR-PE-42566     1997   STATE OF PERNAMBUCO               R.POVERTY(PE)                           39.00         0.00        0.00             21.04         1.48        0.00
BR-PE-43868     1997   STATE OF RGS                      RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY                   100.00         0.00        0.00             89.45        13.00        0.00
BR-PE-43871     1997   STATE OF PIAUI                    (PIAUI)R.POVERTY                        30.00         0.00        0.00             10.45        -5.87        0.00
BR-PE-43873     1997   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                 AG TECH DEV.                            60.00         0.00        0.00             54.70        15.57        0.00
BR-PE-46052     1997                                     CEARA WTR PILOT                           9.60        0.00        0.00              8.24         8.24        0.00
BR-PE-48870     1997   THE STATE OF MATO GROSSO          MT STATE PRIV.                          45.00         0.00        0.00             45.00        25.00        0.00
BR-PE-6475      1997   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL               LAND RFM PILOT                          90.00         0.00        0.00             65.72         7.87        0.00
BR-PE-6532      1997   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT                FED HWY DECENTR                        300.00         0.00        0.00            272.98        54.66        0.00
BR-PE-6562      1997   STATE Or BAHIA                    BAHIA MUN.DV                           100.00         0.00        0.00             98.46        23.13        0.00
BR-PE-37828     1996   STATE OF PARANA                   (PR)R.POVERTY                          175.00         0.00        0.00            146.81        81.07        0.00
BR-PE-40028     1996   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR         RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                   350.00         0.00        0.00             87.42        20.76        0.00
BR-PE-6512      1996   CVRD                              ENV/CONS(CVRD)                          50.00         0.00        0.00             25.19        10.96        0.00
91                                                                  Page 1 of4



MOP Schedule D
Generated: 12/11/98
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                              disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed       Orig    Frm Rev'd
BR-PE-6554      1996   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL              HLTH SCTR REFORM                       300.00        0.00        0.00            241.70      120.03        0.00
BR-PE-35717     1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                   RURAL POV. (BAHIA)                     105.00        0.00        0.00             46.65        9.00        0.00
BR-PE-38882     1995   FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL           RECIFE M.TSP                           102.00        0.00        0.00             86.50       51.42        0.00
BR-PE-38884     1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                   RURAL POV.- CEARA                       70.00        0.00        0.00             30.88        2.68        0.00
BR-PE-38885     1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                   RURAL POV.-SERGIPE                      36.00        0.00        0.00             13.77        -.06        0.00
BR-PE-6436      1995   STATE OF CEARA        ZIL        CEARA UR.DV/WATER CO                   140.00        0.00        0.00             74.29       57.28      -18.38
BR-PE-6564      1995   FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL              BELO H M.TSP                            99.00        0.00        0.00             52.57       32.52        0.00
BR-PE-6452      1994   MINISTRY OF EDUCATION            NE BASIC EDUC III                      206.60        0.00        0.00             38.94       30.69        0.00
BR-PE-6522      1994   ST.OF ESPIRITO SANTO             ESP.SANTO WATER                        154.00        0.00        4.00             74.08       67.70          .65
BR-PE-6524      1994   ST.OF MINAS GERAIS               MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT                    150.00        0.00        5.00             30.85       35.49       22.86
BR-PE-6543      1994   GOVERNMENT                       M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC                   150.00        0.00        0.00             28.44       14.42        0.00
BR-PE-6555      1994   STATE GOVTS                      STE HWY MGT II                         220.00        0.00       36.00             11.52       25.18        7.85
BR-PE-6558      1994   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               PARANA BASIC EDUC                       96.00        0.00        0.00             24.22        8.21        0.00
BR-PE-6378      1993   STATE GOVERNMENTS                STATE HWY MGMT                          88.00        0.00       18.00              3.42       21.41         -.28
BR-PE-6427      1993   MIN. OF EDUCATION   N            NE BASIC EDUC II                       212.00        0.00        0.00             28.20       26.59        0.00
ER-PE-6540      1993   MINAS GERAIS ST.                 WTR Q/PLN(MINAS GERA                   145.00        0.00        5.00              6.05       11.04         2.20
BR-PE-6541      1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.              WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)                   245.00        0.00        9.30             46.35       55.63       -5.37
BR-PE-6547      1993   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                METRO TRANSP. RIO                      128.50        0.00        0.00              3.04        3.06        0.00
BR-PE-6368      1992   GOVERNMENT                       WATER SECTOR MODERNI                   250.00        0.00        0.00              9.00        8.99        0.00
BR-PE-6454      1992   GOB                              RONDONIA NTRL RES. M                   167.00        0.00        0.00             31.33       31.31        0.00
BR-PE-6505      1992   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL             MATO GROSSO NAT RES                    205.00        0.00        0.00             62.69       62.69        0.00
BR-PE-6364      1991   STATE OF SAO PAULO               INNOV BASIC ED                         245.00        0.00        0.00             10.05       10.06        0.00
BR-PE-6492      1991   PETROBRAS             BRAZI      HYDROCARBN TRNSP/PRO                   260.00        0.00        0.00                .58         .59       0.00
BR-PE-6446      1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR        NAT ENVIRONMT                          117.00        0.00        0.00             11.14       11.16        0.00
BR-PE-6453      1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR        NE IRRIG I                             210.00        0.00       69.00             20.07       89.09       20.09
BR-PE-6473      1990   STATE OF SANTA CATARINA          LND MGMT 11-S. CATAR                    33.00        0.00        0.00              1.67        1.71        -.25
BR-PE-6370      1989   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR        NE IRRI JAIBA                           71.00        0.00        0.00              2.09        2.10        0.00
BR-PE-6414      1989   COMGAS, SAO PAULO                NTRL GAS DIST                           94.00        0.00        0.00              1.64        1.62        0.00
Total                                                                                        7,764.20        0.00      146.30          3,704.77   1,373.02        29.37
Active Projects      Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              3,913.12           15,628.64           19,541.76
of which has been repaid:                421,70          12,979.35           13,401.05
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              7,196.19            2,649.54            9,845.73
Amount sold                     :                 0.00              45.83               45.83
Of which repaid              :                0.00               45.83               45.83
Total Undisbursed               :            3,704.77                  .23           3,705.00
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Nov-98.
Page 2 of 4
92



M10P Schedule D
Generated: 12/1 1/98
ANNEx 8 - STATl S OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
S1TA TEM ENT OF I FC's
Co\ml I rI) A\I) 1)D3m 1ZS1:1) Pot I 1:01 10
As of 31 -Oct-98
(In LUS Dollar Millions)
Committed                            Disbtirsed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval                Companm             Loani   F.quity   Quasi l'artic    Loan    Eqtit!   Qusi  1I'artic
1973 '78'83               CODEMIN                      )0()    4.3 4     (,0()    0.00       0(.0    4.34      0.00     (.O(
1975'96                   Oxiteno NE                 27.5()    (0.00(    0.00    27.50               0.0(      0.((     0.00
1980(/871/97              Ipiranga                   4(.0(     6.32      0.((   I 5.()()   4(.(0(    6.32      0.00   150.0()
198(88                    OPP                         0.0(      0.0(     0.0(     (.(0      0.0(     0.((      0.0(     0.((
1980'92                   DENPASA                     0.((      1.00      . 12    0.((      0).0       I .() *   05     (.0(
1981                      Brasilpar                   0.00      .04      (.00     0.00      (.0(1     .04      0.00     0.00
1982 84,86                I'ISA                       (1.00    3.9(0     0.00    (0.()0              3.9()    0.00      0.00
1982 '86                  Cimento Caue                0.00      (1.0(1   0M.0     0.00      0.00     0).0      0.((     0.00
1983                      SOCOCO                      (0.(0     (.(0     2.50     (1.0(1   (0(0      00        2.5(1    0.
1984                      Al.QUIM                     0.00     0.0       0.(0(    (.0       0.0.               (1.0(1    0.((
1987'92,'96               MBR                         8.9(1    0.00    1(.00(    9.10       8.90     0.00    1(.(0      9.1(
198796                    Perdigao                  3.0.63    10.00      (.(0(    16.00    30.63    1(.00(    0.0(1    16.00
1987 96/97                I)uratex                   22.00     (1.00     0.00    78.00    22.00      0.0(1     0.00    78.00
1987 97                   SI) Alpargatas             25.00(1   (1.(1     5.((     0(.0    25.(0(     0.0(1     5.00     (.(0
1989                      1I..lJMA                     ()(     0.(1      2.00()    ()()    (1.00     0.0      2.00     (1.00
1989 95                   Politeno Iid.              16.(8     ().()(    ().()(    (1.00    16.08    ().()0    (1.0(1    0.(1
19')0                     EN(il'POI.                  1.09      ().(1    ()()     ().()0    1 .(9    (1.00     0.((     0.0(1
1990                      Ripasa                      4.29    5s(1(               0.0()     4.29     5.00      ().(0    ()()(
1990'91 92                Bahia Sul                  14.28    20.97      (1.00    ()()0    14.28    20.97      0.(O0    (.()0
1991                      Bradesco-AI.               26.(3     0()()     ()()()    0.00     ().()0   0.0(1     0.00     (.00
1991                      13radesco-Bahia             4.5(1    ().()     ()()()    (.()(    4.5(0    (1        0.00     ().(1(
1991                      Bradesco-l'ucatex           7.5(0     0.00     (.()()    ().()    7.50     0.0(1     0.0(1    (1.(1
1991                      B3radesco-Petrotl           7.5(0    0.(1      (1.(1    ()()0     7.50     0.0(1     (.00     (1.00
19') I                    Bradesco-Romi               I .99      .4(0    ().()    0()()     1.99       .4(0    (.00     0.0()
1991                      Rhodia-Ster                 7.14      5.95     ()()()    0.00     7.14     5.95      0.00     0.00
1992                      CRP-Caderi                  0.(1()      1.93   ()()(    ().(J()    0.00      .68     0.00     ().00
1992'93                   TRIKEM                      ()()()    12.86    (1.00    (1.(1     0.00    12.86      0.00     0.00
1993                      BACI.I. 12.(0(    1(0.7(0    0().(                    21.6(0    12.00    10.7(0     0.00    21.60
1993                      CEBRACT'X                   1.2(0    (),(1     0()(     0.00      1.20     0.00      0.00     0.00
1993                      Macedo Aliieietos          14.5(0    ()()()    0.()(    0.((    14.50      0.00      0.00     0.00
1993                      Votorantiii                13.1(1    ()()      0.((      I(1.0    13.00    0.00      0.00      1.00
1993 96                   CEVAI.                     49,()0    2(0.()()    (1.00   1()5.00    49.00    20.00   0.00   105.00
1994                      GAVEA                       9.69      ().()()    5.5(1    0.(O0   9.69     0.00      5.50     0.00
1994                      GP Capital                  (.((    15.68      ()()(    0.00      0.00    15.64      0.00     0.00
1994                      Para Pigmentos             3().()(    9.((     0.00    33.02    25.50      9.00      0.00    27.77
1994                      Portobello                 14.57      5.((      0(1     0.(0     14.57     5.00      0.00     0.00
1994 95'97                Sadia                      48.()()   1(.()()    1().()   195.11    48.00    10.00    10.00   195.11
1'994 96                  CHAPECCO                   25.(()    (1.0(1    0.00      5.00    25.00     0.00      0.00     5.00
1994'96                   S.A.I.C.C.                  ().()     7,85     6.87     0.00      0.00     7.70      6.87     0.00
1995                      Bradesco-Herimn             7.5(1    ()()      (1.00    0.00      7.50     0.00      0.00     0.00
1995                      Brahimia - BRA             3()()()    ().1()(  0.(0    73.80    30.00      0.00      0.00    73.80
1995                      Cambuht'MC                 20.63      (.0(1    (.00     0.00    20.63      0.00      0.00     0.00
1995                      Lojas Americana            28.00      ().()    5.00    16.00    28.00      0.00      5.00    16.00
1995                      LATASA - Brazil            14.33      0.00     0.00      2.50    14.33     0.00      0.00     2.50
1995                      RhodiacolPTA               22.50      0.00     0.00    2 1.00    22.50     0.00      0.00    21.00
93                                               Page 3 of 4



MOP Schedule D
Generated: 12/1 1/98
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995/96/98             Globocabo               35.00   27.97    0.00   118.00   35.00   27.97    0.00   118.00
1996                   Banco Bradesco          40.00    0.00    0.00   60.00    9.69    0.00    0.00    14.53
1996                   Mallory                  8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   TIGRE                   25.00    0.00    5.00    19.23   25.00    0.00      5.00    19.23
1996/97                Lightel                 25.00    18.17    0.00    0.00   25.00    18.17    0.00    0.0(
1997                   Bompreco                25.00    0.00     5.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1997                   Copesul                 40.00     0.0(    0.00   180.00   40.00    0.00    0.00  180.00
1997                   Guilmana-Amorini        30.00    0.00    0.00   91.00   30.00    0.(0    0.00   91.0(
1997                   Rodovia                 35.00    0.00    0.00   79.50   30.02    0.00    0.00   68.18
1997                   Samarco                  17.10    0.00    0.00    14.67    17.10    0.00    0.00    14.67
1997                   Sucorrico                15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   Wembley                  0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.00    (.00    0.00
1997/93                Coteminas                15.00    4.00    0.00   20.00    1:5.00    4.00    0.00   20.00
1998                   Arteb                   20.00     7.00    0.00    0.(0     0.00    0.(00    (.00    0.0
1998                   BSC                     14.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    14.00    0.00    0.(0    7.50
1998                   Dixie To-a               0.00    15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.00    (.0(    0.((
1998                   Empesca                 25.00    (.00    10.0(    0.00    5.(0    (.0()   10.0(    (.0(
1998                   Icatu Equity             0.00   30.00    (.0(    0.00    (.(0    0.(0    (.00    0.((
1998                   Saraiva                 I 5.((    3.00    0.00    0.00    15.00    3.00    0.(00    0.0
Total Portfolio:                   968.45  266.08   66.99  1.317.   862.63   227.67   66.92  1.254.
03                               99
Approvals Pending Commilitmiienit
Loan   Eguitv   Ouasi  Partic
1996                   AGt)AS L.IMF-IRA         17.00    1.((    0.00   23.00
1998                   BANCO ICATIUJ           30.00    (.(00    0.0      0.00
1999                   CIBRASEC                 0.(0     7.50    (.(0    0.00
1997                   CTBC                    35.00    (.(0    0.00   150.00
1998                   FOSFERTltl,             20.0)0    0.00    0.0()   60.00
1998                   FRAS-I.                  I (0.(0(    I    ().)  ).00    15.00
1998                   FSA                     35.00    (.(()   10.00   45.00
1996                   GLOBOCAB3O 11            (.())    (.00    0.00    38.00
1998                   GUILMAN BL.INC           0.00     0.(00 ( ).(      1.00
1997                   IPIRANGA EXPANS.         0.00    0.00    5.()0    0.00
1998                   IPIRANGA-RI 2            0.0       .09    (.00(    0.00
1998                   LOJAS RlNNER            16.0()    4.00    (.00    0.00
1997                   NOVA DIJTRA              O()    0.00      00 (0O   10.00
BLINC
1996                   OXITENO/()/I IIYI.O      (.00    5.00    (.(0    0.00
1998                   RANDON                   7.0)0    0.00    3.00    15.00
1998                   SANTIHFR                25.0()    0()(    10.00   45.00
1997                   SP ALPARGATAS 11         0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00
1998                   TRG (TECON RIO)          7.50    0.00     5.50   26.00
1998                   TRIKEM 11               25.0(0    0.00    0.((    0.00
1998                   UNIBANCO                40.00    0.((    0.00  250.00
Total Pending Comilmitmilent:      267.50   27.59    33.50  708.00
94                                          Page 4 of 4



Annex 9 -- Brazil at a Glance                                                                9/16198
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle'
Brazil  & Carib.  Income      Development diamond'
1997
P6pulatio, mid-year OMiNls)                         163.5       494       571                 Lif expeeanc
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  4,720     3,880     4,520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    771.9      1,917    2,584
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (X)                                        1.4        1.7      1.5
Labor force (%)                                       1.7        2.3      1.9      GNP                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                              capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line) 1/  17
Urban population (% of total population)               80        74        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       67        70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               34        32        30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              7         ,,        ,               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 72        73        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   17        13        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  112      111       107        -     Brazil
Male                                                                                  -  Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                         152.7    268.1      774.9    820.3
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                23.1      19.1      20.7      22.8                    Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP            7.0      8.8        7.1       6.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  20.7     21.6       186      20.6
Gross national savingslGDP                  19.2     17.1       17.3      18.6
Current account balance/GDP                  -4.3     -1.9      -3.1      -4.1     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        1.1      2.4        1.1       1.1     D                           Investment
Total debtUGDP                              21.8     40.7       23.1      23:6     Savings
Total debt service/exports                  37.9     46.8       41.7      45.2
Present value of debtVGDP                                       21.8
Present value of debt/exports                                 280.8
Indebtedness
1976486  1987-97    1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)                                       ,,
GDP                                 2.9      1.9      2.8        3.2       3.5               razil
GNP per capita                      0.2      0.0       1.8       1.9       2.0              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      10.3      5.4      6.1        1.8       5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  12.0    11.2       14.4      12.7    is
Industry                                    39.7    45.2        36.4     37.8    10
Manufacturing                              30.4     33.0      22.9      23.4     s
Services                                    47.3     43.7      49.2      49.5  o097
Private consumption                         68.8    67.8        62.2     61.9      5 ;    5    93   94   95   Os   07
General government consumption              10.5      10.7      19.2      17.5                   GDI    - O  GDP
Imports of goods and services                9.4      6.4        9.2       8.5
1976-86  1987-97      1996     1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (N)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   3.7      2.5       2.2       2.4    40 -
Industry                                     2.7       0.1       3.0       3.8
Manufacturing                               2.3     -0.2       2.9       3.8    20
Services                                      2.9      3.1       3.1       3.5      l     'i
Private consumption                          2.5       3.4       4.6       4.5
General govemment consumption                 2.1     -1.6       9.8       8.0 
Gross domestic investment                    -2.1      1.2      -0.2       6.2   .20
Imports of goods and services                -3.3     12.1       5.9      13.9                  Exports    *  Imports
Gross national product                        2.4      1.5       3.2       3.3   I
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates. 1/ Poverty estimate is from 1990.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
95



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986      1996      1997     InnatIon (%)
Domestic prkces250
(% change)                                                                      2,s00
Consumer prices                               ..   147.1       15.8      6.9    2,W(00
Implicit GDP deflator                       47.6   145.3       17.2      7.8    1500
1,000
Government finance                                                                soo
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                0
Current revenue                               ..   22.3        31.3     32.1             92   93   94   95   95   97
Current budget balance                        ..    -5.0       -1.2     -1.6                  GDP deflator    t  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..   -13.3       -5.9     -6.1                                             1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1976    1986       1996      1997     Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  22,394    47,747   52,986    75,000
Coffee                                      ..  2,360       2,095    3,094          T
Other food                                   ..   1,562     4,458    5,729
Manufactures                                ..  11,839    29,676   32,732
Total imports (cif)                           ..  14,044    53,301    61,358
Food                                        ..   ..  3,279  3,290  25000 L     11111
Fuel and energy                             ..  3,541       3,459    3,220
Capital goods                                ..   3,464    20,188   26,232        0
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      68       100       96            91  92  93  94  9s  95  97
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      85       103        95              mExports     flImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      80        97       101     _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            '1976    1986       1996      1997     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services             10,648   23,670    51,853   56,627     2
Imports of goods and services             14,687   16,576    64,956   74,156
Resource balance                          -3,839    7,294   -13,105  -17,331     o
Net income                                -2,719  -12,259   -14,141   -18,329       91  92   93 94 
Net current transfers                        -3      -26      2,899    2,220    -2 -
Current account balance                   -6,561   -4,991   -24,347  -33,439
Financing items (net)                      9,233    -319    33,364   25,629
Changes in net reserves                   -2,672    5,310    -9,017    7,810     41
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)     6,542    5,907    60,089   51,729
Conversion rate (DEC, loca1/US$)        3.88E-12  4.97E-9       1.0      1.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(US$ millions)                             1976    1986       1996      1997     Composition of total debt, 1996 (US$
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      33,340  109,026   179,047  193,598      millions)
IBRD                                     1,172    7,546    5,876    5,743                     A: 5,876  C: 68
IDA                                         0        0         0        0           G: 35,439            D: 3,550
Total debt service                         4,278   11,616    25,091    30,000                                 E: 16,803
IBRD                                      130    1,164      1,638    1,428
IDA                                         0        0         0         0
Cbmpmitimn bf AM meUtth flw/
Official grants                             6       30        80        ..                                   /
Official creditors                        384    1,152      -514   -1,786
Private creditors                        5,215    -444    14,514   17,238
Foreign direct investment                1,555     320     9,889
Portfolio equity                            0        0     3,981                                   F: 117,311
World Bank program
Commitments                               486    1,620       858    1,104      A - IBRO                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             173    1,619      1,500    1,416     B-IDA    D-Otherinultilateral   F-Private
Principal repayments                       45      608      1,222    1,049     C - ,MF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                  128    1,011       278      368   1
Interest payments                          85      556       416      380
Net transfers                              43      455      -138       -12
Development Economics                                                                                            9/16/98
96



