CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1397 PAN
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Livestock Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 28, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Banco Nacional de Panamd (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to eight million dollars
($8,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so
to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower and PRODEIRHA
will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required
for the carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower and
PRODEIRRA or cause the Borrower and PRODEIRHA to be provided with
such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-5-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall cause PRODEIRHA:
(a) punctually to perform all of its obligations under the
Sub-loan Agreement between PRODEIRHA and the Borrower, and all
other obligations of PRODEIRHA in respect of the Project, in
accordance with sound agricultural, administrative, economic and
financial practices, under the supervision of experienced and
competent management.


﻿-6-
(b) to maintain separate livestock budgets, accounts, balance
sheets, auditing and management for PRODEIRHA.
(c) to employ a technical manager for Livestock Operations of
PRODEIRHA whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall: (a) provide to PRODEIRHA
the facilities, veterinary services, and other services and
resources required for the success of Part B of the Project;
and
(b) guarantee the due and punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, any Sub-loan to PRODEIRHA,
and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of any such Sub-loan.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall: (a) establish and maintain
such policies and adopt such measures consistent therewith as
shall from time to time be necessary to provide for an adequate
development of its livestock resources; and (b) afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Guarantor on any
proposed new policies or measures which may affect the
accomplishment of the objectives of the Project.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall: (a) maintain its existing
policies, regulations and measures for the prevention of entry
of foot and mouth disease and (b) establish such policies, issue
such regulations and adopt such measures consistent therewith
as shall from time to time be necessary to prevent introduction
of foot and mouth disease in the territory of the Guarantor.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be required to protect the Borrower against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including balboas) used by the Borrower
in the execution of the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Tesoro of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Tesoro
Panama, Repfblica de Panamg
Cable address:
HACIENDA
Panama, RP
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By /s/ Ricardo Bilonick
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


