CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1397 PAN
Loan Agreement
(Second Livestock Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE PANAMA
Dated April 28, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCO NACIONAL DE PANAMA (hereinafter called the Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿- 3 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Asentamiento" means a land reform settlement enterprise
established and existing under Decreto de Gabinete No. 50 of
February 24, 1972, of the Guarantor, as such Decreto may be amended
from time to time.
(b) "PRODEIRHA" means the Proyecto de Desarrollo Integral
de Rio Hato, an agricultural development entity of the Guarantor.
(c) "Participating Institutions" means such private
commercial banks and other financial institutions that are
recipients of a Subsidiary Loan.
(d) "Subsidiary Loan" means a loan in the currency of the
Guarantor, included under the Project and made by the Borrower
to a Participating Institution in accordance with the Lending
and Operating Policies and Procedures set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time,
to be relent to a Beneficiary for an Investment Plan.
(e) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement for any
Subsidiary Loan.


﻿(f) "Investment Plan" means a specific investment plan,
financed in part by means of a Sub-loan, to be carried out by a
livestock farmer, cooperative, Asentamiento, PRODEIRRA, or other
legal entity or grouping, for the purpose of improving or
expanding its livestock facilities, infrastructure, pastures,
and herds in order to increase their productivity.
(g) "Beneficiary" means a farmer, rancher, Asentamiento,
PRODEIRHA, or other legal entity to which the Borrower or a
Participating Institution proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.
(h) "Sub-loan" means a long-term loan in the currency of
the Guarantor made by the Borrower or a Participating Institution
to a Beneficiary for an Investment Plan, in accordance with
the Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time.
(i) "Sub-loan Agreement" means the Agreement for any Sub-loan.
(j) "Project Account" means the account and sub-accounts
that the Borrower shall open on its books pursuant to Section 3.02
of this Agreement.
(k) "Sub-loan Account" means the account and sub-accounts
the Participating Institution shall open on its books pursuant to
Section 3.03 of this Agreement.


﻿-5-
(1) "Technical Unit" means the administrative unit of the
Borrower which is responsible for the management and operation of
the Project.
(m) "fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower,
which begins on January 1 and ends on December 31.
(n) "balboa" means the currency of the Guarantor.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and services (other than services of consultants) required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be procured through regular commercial channels from
responsible suppliers, provided, however, that for the procurement
of vehicles and equipment under Category (2) (b), and of imported
cattle under Category (1) (b), of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
price quotations from at least 3 suppliers shall be obtained prior
to the award of any contract.


﻿- 7 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one-half per cent (8.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
agricultural, administrative, economic and financial practices,
under the supervision of experienced and competent management, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon any of its
obligations under Sub-section (a) hereof, the Borrower shall:
(i) with respect to Investment Plans financed directly by the
Borrower, provide the Project Account from time to time, out
of its own resources with all such amounts, in addition to the
financing thereof provided out of the proceeds of the Loan, as
shall be necessary to finance specific Investment Plans and
(ii) with respect to Investment Plans financed through
Participating Institutions, cause such Participating Institutions
to provide their Sub-loan Accounts from time to time, out of their
own resources, with all such amounts, in addition to the financing
thereof provided out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan, as
shall be necessary to finance specific Investment Plans.


﻿- 9 -
Section 3.02 The Borrower shall:
(a) in accordance with the Lending and Operating Policies
and Procedures set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower, relend part of the proceeds of
the Loan in the currency of the Guarantor to Beneficiaries for
Investment Plans either directly under a Sub-loan Agreement or by
relending to a Participating Institution under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, for further relending to
Beneficiaries under a Sub-loan Agreement;
(b) provide, or cause the Participating Institutions to
provide, out of its or their own resources and on commercial
lending terms, short-term loans to Beneficiaries to cover their
working capital and other short-term financial requirements,
in such amounts and for such periods as shall be required under
the respective Investment Plans;
(c) establish and maintain a separate Project Account to be
used exclusively for the Project; and
(d) record in such Project Account all receipts and payments
for or in connection with the Project, in accordance with sound
accounting principles consistently applied, including the
following:
(i) amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account;


﻿- 10 -
(ii) amounts disbursed to and received from each
Beneficiary under a Sub-loan;
(iii) amounts disbursed to and received from a
Participating Institution;
(iv) amounts provided by the Guarantor or the Borrower
from their own resources for Investment Plans;
and
(v) payments made for technical services for and the
administration of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause each Participating
Institution:
(a) to establish and maintain a separate Sub-loan Account to
be used exclusively for each Investment Plan; and
(b) to record in such Sub-loan Account all receipts and
payments for or in connection with each Investment Plan, in
accordance with sound accounting principles consistently applied,
including the following:
(i) amounts received from and payments made to the
Borrower under a Subsidiary Loan;
(ii) amounts disbursed to and received from each
Beneficiary under a Sub-loan; and
(iii) amounts provided by the Guarantor or the
Participating Institution from their own resources
for Investmenc Plans.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
in such a manner as to protect its interests and those of the Bank,
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive any of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements or any provision thereof; and
(b) exercise its rights and cause the Participating
Institutions to exercise their rights under the Sub-loan Agreements
in such a manner as to protect its and their rights and those of
the Bank and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive, nor
fail to enforce, any of the Sub-loan Agreements or any provision
thereof or (ii) cause the Participating Institutions not to
assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive, nor fail to enforce, any of
the Sub-loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain, until
completion of the Project, a Technical Unit which shall manage and
operate the Project with direct administrative responsibility to
the Gerente General of the Borrower, or to such other person as
shall bc designated by the Gerente General; and (b) provide such
Technical Unit, promptly as needed, with such qualified and
experienced supporting staff, facilities, funds and other
resources as shall be required for the efficient management and
operation thereof.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall, until completion of the
Project, employ in the Technical Unit:
(i) a Project Director, who shall have the duties,
responsibilities and powers as set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(ii) an agricultural economist, a dairy production
specialist and an administrative assistant; and
(iii) a minimum of 20 agriculture/livestock technicians,
all to be employed no later than February 28, 1978.
(b) The qualifications and terms of reference of the Project
Director, agricultural economist, and dairy production specialist
mentioned in Sub-section (a) hereof, and their appointment,
shall be subject to the prior approval of the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the Participating Institutions
to employ from time to time qualified agriculture/livestock
technicians, as required and approved by the Project Director, to
assist the Beneficiaries in the preparation of their Investment
Plans and in the appraisal and supervision of such Investment Plans.
(d) Section 3.06 and Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement
(Livestock Development Project) dated June 8, 1973, between the
Bank and the Borrower, are hereby amended to read the same as
Section 3.06 and Schedule 5, respectively, of this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
Section 3.07. In order to assist the Borrqwer in carrying
out Parts C (2) and C (3) of the Project, the Borrower shall,
no later than February 28, 1978, employ agriculture, livestock or
other consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure and shall cause
the Participating Institutions to ensure that the Beneficiaries
will take adequate measures to control internal and external
parasites of cattle and to vaccinate them against infectious
diseases.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation by the Technical Unit and approval
by the Project Director, quarterly and annual reports for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited


﻿- 14 -
representatives to inspect the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, the land, sites, works and construction included in
any Investment Plan, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Without in any way limiting the Borrower's obligations
under Sub-sections (a) and (b) of this Section, the Borrower
shall: (i) no later than February 28, 1978, establish and maintain,
under the supervision of the agricultural economist referred to in
Section 3.06 (a) (ii) of this Agreement, a monitoring system,
acceptable to the Bank, for the collection and evaluation of
information concerning the effects of the Project and of the
Livestock Project carried out under the Loan Agreement dated June
8, 1973, between the Bank and the Borrower; and (ii) report to the
Bank from time to time concerning the information received and
evaluated under such monitoring system.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, maintain the Technical
Unit, and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound
business, financial and agricultural practices, and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICTE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) and the Project Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements and of the Project
Account for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements and the Project Account of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall: (a) cause the Participating
Institutions to: (i) have their Loan Accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently


﻿- 17 -
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Borrower and
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Borrower as soon as available, but
in any case not later than three months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of the Loan Accounts for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audits by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested to the Borrower; and (iii) furnish to the Borrower such
other information concerning the Loan Accounts of the Participating
Institutions and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request from the Borrower; and
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than one month after receipt from the Participating
Institutions, the certified copies, reports and information
referred to in Sub-section (a) hereof.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.


﻿- 18 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on
any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien
satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that any provision of Law No. 11
of February 7, 1956 of the Guarantor shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to fulfill its
obligations under the Loan Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that satisfactory revisions of the laws and regulations of
the Guarantor have been enacted and put into effect relating to
milk quality levels, on-farm building standards, milk production
requirements, milk testing, farm inspection, and uniform milk
pricing based on milk quality standards.
Section 7.02. The date July 29, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Panamg
calle 33 y Avenida Cuba
PanamA 5, Panamg
Cable address:                     Telex:
BANCONAL                           3480194 (ITT)
Panami


﻿- 22 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE PANAMA
By /s/ Ricardo de la Espriella
Authorized Representative


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans for Part A
of the Project               5,000,000        46% of amounts
disbursed under
Sub-loans for
Investment Plans
(representing
the estimated
foreign expen-
ditures compo-
nent)
(2) Sub-loan to PRODEIRHA          1,000,000       100%


﻿- 24 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(3) Technical Services
and related equip-
ment
(a) vehicles, equip-          400,000        75% (represent-
ment, materials,                        ing the estima-
and spare parts;                        ted foreign ex-
and overseas                            penditures com-
training for                            ponent)
Part C (1) of
the Project
(b) consultant                300,000        100%
services for
Parts C (2)
and C (3)
of the
Project
(4) Unallocated                  1,300,000
TOTAL        8,000,000


﻿- 25 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwitistanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for Part B of the Project
until: (i) the Guarantor has deposited by way of grant to
PRODEIRIA, in the PRODEIRHA sub-account maintained by the
Borrower, 500,000 dollars, representing the Guarantor's initial
contribution to the counterpart financing for Part B of the
Project; (ii) the Bank has received with each withdrawal


﻿- 26 -
application a certification that the total amount of counterpart
funds disbursed from the PRODEIRHA sub-account is equal to or
greater than the total of the amounts disbursed under the
PRODEIRHA Sub-loan; and (iii) the Guarantor has furnished to
the Bank a copy of the final draft of the estatutos, which shall
be acceptable to the Bank, to be adopted in establishing PRODEIRHA
as a legal entity;
(b) in respect of payments under Part B of the Project
after the initial disbursement of $500,000 until the Guarantor
has deposited by way of grant to PRODEIRHA, in the PRODEIRHA
sub-account, an additional $500,000 in counterpart financing;
(c) in respect of payments for the acquisition of cattle
for Part B of the Project, until the Bank has received evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that: (i) the technical and physical
infrastructure of PRODEIRHA will be adequate and functioning at
the time of the arrival of the cattle in Panamd; and (ii)
PRODEIRHA has adopted an adequate plan for import operation,
including the arrangements for the corralling and shipment of
cattle.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that


﻿27 -
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
1.   Dual-purpose Farms. Sub-loans for Investment Plans
consisting of dual-purpose beef and dairy farms operated by small
and medium-sized Beneficiaries, including Asentamientos,
cooperatives or other groups, private and public, such Sub-loans
to be used to help finance capital and other expenditures designed
to improve beef and milk production, including the purchase of
improved strains of beef and dairy cattle.
2.   Specialized Dairy Farms. Sub-loans for Investment Plans
consisting of specialized dairy farms, including farms operated by
Asentamientos, cooperatives or other groups, private and public,
such Sub-loans to be used to help finance capital and other
expenditures designed to improve milk production, through, inter
alia, the purchase of improved strains of dairy cattle, the
development of improved pastures, and the adoption of measures to
improve productivity through breeding and herd improvement.
Part B:
A Sub-loan to PRODEIRHA in order to assist in the financing
of improved pastures and infrastructure for specialized milk
production and the importation, adaptation and subsequent


﻿- 29 -
multiplication of improved milking strain cows for subsequent sale
to small and medium-sized farmers, principally Beneficiaries.
Part C:
1.   Overseas training, vehicles, equipment, spare parts and
gasoline for the staff and technicians of the Technical Unit.
2.   Provision of consultant services to the Technical
Unit in selected areas, as determined by the Project Director
and approved by the Bank, including areas of animal fertility,
soil conservation, and tropical pastures.
3.   Provision of consultant services for expansion and
diversification of the meat processing industry in Panam-a.
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 1982.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1982
through   November 1, 1990                445,000
On May 1, 1991                                 435,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 31 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.80%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                         3.65%
More than six years but not
more than ten years
before maturity                         6.10%
More than ten years but not
more than twelve years
before maturity                         7.30%
More than twelve years
before maturity                         8.50%


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 4
Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures
of the Borrower and the Participating Institutions
I. SUBSIDIARY LOANS
A.   Eligibility
Such private commercial banks or other financial institutions
as shall have been selected by the Borrower to participate in the
Project on the basis of their (i) past experience and performance
in agricultural lending; (ii) financial condition; (iii) managerial
and technical capabilities; and (iv) branch network outside Panaml
City.
B.   Terms and Conditions
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for approval a standard
form of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be used under this Project.
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall provide:
(a) that Subsidiary Loans will finance not more than forty-
six per cent (46%) of the amount of eligible Sub-loans;
(b) for an interest rate of nine per cent (9%) a year on the
amount withdrawn and outstanding under each Subsidiary Loan;
(c) that the repayment terms will be equal to those of the
Sub-loan Agreements;
(d) that Subsidiary Loans shall be denominated and repayable
in balboas;


﻿- 33 -
(e) that the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loans will be used
exclusively in relending to Beneficiaries for the carrying out
of Investment Plans, under terms and conditions to be approved
by the Borrower and which shall, inter alia, include the
requirements set forth in Section II of this Schedule; and
(f) all such provisions as shall be necessary to enable the
Borrower to fulfil its obligations under the Loan Agreement and
to protect its interests and those of the Bank.
II. SUB-LOANS
A.   Eligibility
The Borrower and the Participating Institutions shall process
all applications for Sub-loans in accordance with their normal
administrative procedures and may accept as security real estate
mortgages and, if needed, chattel mortgages on livestock and
equipment. For the purposes of evaluating the collateral offered
to them, the Borrower and the Participating Institutions shall
take into account the increased real estate value from farm, ranch,
Asentamiento or PRODEIRHA improvements to be financed with the
proceeds of their Sub-loan. The Borrower and the Participating
Institutions shall be entitled to reject the application of any
Beneficiary due to lack of creditworthiness, but shall not alter
the technical or financial components of Investment Plans,
including measures for the protection of animal health, without
the consent of the Project Director.


﻿- 34 -
B.   Terms and Condltions
1.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for approval a standard
form of the Sub-loan Agreement to be used for Investment Plans
by it and ali Participating Institutions.
2.   Each Sub-loan Agreement shall provide:
(a) that the amount of Sub-loans shall not exceed the
equivalent of eighty per cent (80%) of the estimated cost of the
investments to be financed therewith, except that in the case of
the Sub-loan to PRODEIRHA the amount of the Sub-loan shall not
exceed the equivalent of fifty per cent (50%) of the cost of the
investments to be financed therewith;
(b) for an interest rate of not less than eleven per cent
(11%) per year on the amount withdrawn and outstanding under
each loan; an additional service fee of 0.5% for each Sub-loan in
an amount below $150,000 and 0.25% for each Sub-loan in an amount
above that figure may be charged for each Sub-loan; no additional
costs, such as application, inspection or commitment fees, shall
be charged unless required by law;
(c) that the repayment terms shall reflect the payment
ability of the Beneficiary and the cash flow position of an
Investment Plan; provided, however, that the maximum sublending
terms shall apply in the following cases: (i) Dual-purpose Farms
-- 12 years, including a grace period of 5 years; (ii) Specialized


﻿- 35 -
Dairy Farms -- 10 years, including a grace period of 4 years;
(iii) PRODEIRHA -- 12 years, including a grace period of 5 years.
(d) Sub-loans shall be denominated and repayable in
balboas;
(e) that the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Plan;
(f) the right to require the Beneficiary to carry out the
Investment Plan and operate the facilities included therein with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards, and to maintain
adequate records;
(g) the right to inspect the goods, land, sites, works and
construction included in the Investment Plan, the operation
thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(h) the right of the Borrower or the Participating
Institution to suspend and terminate access by the Beneficiary to
the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by the
Beneficiary to perform his obligations under his Sub-loan
Agreement; and
(i) all such other provisions as shall be necessary to
enable the Borrower to fulfill its obligations under the Loan
Agreement and to protect its interests and those of the Bank.


﻿- 36 -
3.   In the case of any Sub-loan to PRODEIRHA, the Borrower shall
require the Guarantor to guarantee any such Sub-loan in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.03 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement.
C.   Approvals and Limitations
1.   Except as the Project Director shall otherwise determine, the
Borrower and the Participating Institutions shall make Sub-loans
only on the basis of Investment Plans which have been approved by
the Project Director.
2.   No more than fifty-five per cent (55%) of the proceeds of each
Sub-loan under Category (1) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall
be used for purchasing breeding cattle.
3.   Whenever the amount of any Sub-loan or Sub-loans made or
proposed to be made by the Borrower and one or more Participating
Institutions to any single Beneficiary shall be, in the aggregate,
in excess of the equivalent of $100,000, the Borrower shall also
obtain the prior approval of the Bank.
D.   Supervision
1.   The Borrower and the Participating Institutions shall ensure
that amounts drawn on Sub-loans will be applied exclusively to
expenditures for the Investment Plans to be financed thereunder.


﻿- 37 -
2.   The staff of the Borrower and the Participating Institutions,
or the staff serving the Technical Unit on their behalf, shall
regularly visit the farms, ranches, Asentamientos or PRODEIHRA
where Investment Plans financed with Sub-loans are being carried
out to ensure that Beneficiaries are effectively and punctually
carrying out such Plans and complying with the provisions of
their respective Sub-loan Agreements with the Borrower or the
Participating Institutions.


﻿- 38 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Director
The Project Director shall have, inter alia, the following
specific duties, responsibilities, and powers, which he may
delegate in part to other Project technical staff:
(a) manage and execute the Project in accordance with
policies and procedures of the Borrower;
(b) cooperate with the management of the Borrower and
Participating Institutions in accomplishing Project objectives;
(c) recommend to the Guarantor, Borrower and Participating
Institutions employment of the necessary staff to carry out
Project activities;
(d) train and supervise the technical staff and
Beneficiaries in the technical and economic aspects of farm
development and livestock production in connection with individual
Investment Plans;
(e) give final approval and recommend to the Credit
Committee of the Borrower, and to the management of Participating
Institutions, Investment Plans for Sub-loans;
(f) introduce to Beneficiaries such techniques as tropical
pasture development, controlled grazing management systems for
improved and natural tropical pastures, provide design and
specifications for on-ranch grass and legume seed multiplication


﻿- 39 -
plots and efficient techniques in low-cost land clearing; assist
in determining layouts for ranch structures and stock handling
facilities; make recommendations in regard to the selection
and purchase of breeding stock and provide guidance to
Beneficiaries and Project technicians in livestock, meat and
milk marketing;
(g) provide the supervision and technical assistance
necessary to ensure successful completion of each Investment Plan
and Sub-loan;
(h) establish and maintain farm records for sample
farms, as required for Project monitoring and evaluation;
(i) assist and cooperate with consultants engaged for the
Project;
(j) supervise the agricultural economist charged with
carrying out the monitoring system described in Section 3.10 (c)
of this Agreement;
(k) make recommendations to the proper authorities of the
Borrower and Participating Institutions with respect to:
(i) remuneration for Project staff and other
compensation necessary to attract the most
qualified personnel available; and
(ii) recruitment, suspension, or removal of Project
staff;


﻿- 40 -
(1) prepare the annual budget for the offices of the
Project;
(m) prepare and submit to the Borrower within thirty days
after the end of the reporting period, for transmittal to the
Bank, quarterly and annual reports on the progress of the Project,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(n) coordinate and cooperate with the Pasture Research
Station and other experimental stations maintained by the
Ministerio de Desarrollo Agropecuario of the Guarantor and
with all other agencies of the Guarantor related to the
agriculture and livestock sectors.


