Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USIE ONLY
Report No. 13733
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
THIRD SHELTER PROJECT
(LOAN 2795-TH)
NOVEMBER 28, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Exchange Rate
Currency unit: Baht
Baht to the US$ (annual average)
1983         22.97
1984         22.97
1985         27.13
1986         25.94
1987         25.71
1988         25.27
1989         25.68
1990         25.56
1991         25.49
1992         25.38
Acronyms
BMA          Bangkok Metropolitan Administration
GHB          Government Housing Bank
NHA          National Housing Authority
F;scal Year
Royal Thai Government and National Housing Authority:
October 1 to September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General                                          lovenber 28, 1994
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Thailand
Third Shelter Project (Loan 2795-TH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Thailand - Third Shelter Project (Loan 2795-TH)
prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. The Borrower
prepared Part II.
The goal of the project was to support the Govermnent's housing policy thoug the mobilization
of resources at the National Housing Authority (NHA) and the Government Housing Bank (GHB), to
promote lending to lower-income households, to strengthen NHA's management practices, and to promote
cost recovery.
The project failed to achieve its main objectives. Only 32% of the loan was disbursed. Just 20%
of the housing units were completed, 2,262 out of a planned 11,000 units. Contradictory information
concerning incomes released by Government after the project was approved, which had an impact on
housing affordability, resulted in the exclusion of several sites from the project. The technical assistance
program did not fare better, due to a shortage of NHA staff and lack of consultant continuity. A review
of NHA's performance conducted under the project noted contradictions within NHA and concluded that
the agency was not able to maintain a balance between profitable housing and serving the poor.
Six years elapsed between project identification and approval, an unusually long time. Although
the project proceeded smoothly immediately after loan approval, increases in construction costs, the
escalation in design standards used by NHA and the revelation of new income survey data which was
translated by the Bank into a new affordability analysis of the project, resulted in an important diversion
from the original project criteria.
The lacJk of success of this operation highlights the necessity, at appraisal, for a better definition
of housing parameters (standards, financial parameters, and pricing policies) and realism about the
prospects for the production of cheap housing, and, where appropriate, transparent subsidy options.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, its institutional development impact as negligible,
and the sustainability of project benefits as uncertain. The quality of the PCR is satisfactory. No audit
is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAELAND
THEID SEELTER PROJECT (LOAN 2795-TB
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary ............................................ i
PART I. PROJECT tEVIEW FRPlM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project identity ........ .     ............................ 1
Backgron d.1.. .....                                                           I
Objectives and Description .............................. 3
Design and Organization ............................... 4
implementation ..................................... 5
Results .......................................... 9
Bank Performance .................................. 11
Borrower Performance ............................... 13
Lessons Learned ................................... 14
PART II.    PROJECT REVIEW FORM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(The Borrower did not prepare Part H.) ..................... 16
PART III.    STATISTICAL INFORMATION: TABLES
Table 1: Related Bank Loas and Credits ................... 17
Table 2: Project Timetable ...........................  18
Table 3: Loan Disbursements ........................... 19
Table 4: Implementation Timetable  . ...................... 21
Table 5: Project Costs ..............................  22
Table 6a: Subproject Indicators .......................... 23
Table 6b: Economic and Financial Impact                   .        .         24
Table 6c: Studies and Technical Assitance                  .        .        25
Table 7: Bank Staff Inputs (Staffweeks) .................... 27
Table 8: Missions ..............................                             28
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants ....................... 29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLEMION REPORT
THMLAND
THIRD SHELTER PROJECT
(LOAN 2795-TH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Shelter Project in Thailand, for
which Loan 2795-TH in the amount of US$21.0 million was approved on April 14, 1987. US$12.0
million was canceled from the loan balance on February 5, 1991. The loan was closed, as scheduled,
on December 31, 1992. US$2.26 million was canceled at the time of the loan account closing. The
final disbursement was made on March 5, 1993.
The PCR was prepared by the Urban Development Division of the Transport, Water, and
Urban Development Department in conjunction with the Infrastructure Operations Division of the East
Asia and Pacific Regional Office with data provided, in part, by the National Housing Authority of
the Kingdom of Thailand.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the project
in June, 1993, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal
Bank memoranda.






ii
PROJECT COMPLEMION REPORT
THAILAND
THIRD SHELTER PROJECT (LOAN 2795-TH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The project was designed to support the Government of Thailand's housing policy through the
following objectives: to increase the National Housing Authority's (NHA) reliance on domestically
mobilized resources through the establishment of a functional relationship between NHA and the
Government Housing Bank (GHB) that would finance a part of NHA's new housing construction and
housing finance program; to promote GHB's lending to lower-income households to support its
mandate in playing a leading role in housing finance; to strengthen NHA's management practices,
planning capabilities, and policy development functions; to support NHA's core housing development
program for lower-and middle-income families and to promote sound cost recovery and project
evaluation policies; and, to improve the availability of housing sector data necessary for proper
housing policy development.
To achieve these objectives, the project was designed to finance:
1)    construction of about 11,000 core housing units and serviced plots, including supporting
infrastructure and community facilities, of which 82% would be located in the Bangkok area
(on six sites) and 18% in six other cities; and
2)    technical assistance to (i) strengthen NHA's planning and policy development functions; (ii)
expand computer facilities and enhance computer use in data processing within NHA,
including development of an efficient management information system; (iii) assist NHA in
developing more cost-efficient housing prototypes and infrastructure standards; and (iv)
contribute to the establishment of a Housing Information Center.
Implementation Experience
Implementation proceeded smoothly at the start. The project was unhampered by the
problem that previous Bank projects in the Thai housing sector had faced, namely slow land
acquisition, because most of the project's land was acquired during the long preparation and appraisal
period.
Thailand experienced a private-sector housing boom in the late 1980's, causing construction
costs and land values to rise rapidly. This, combined with slowly escalating design standards, pushed
up sales prices of units on most sites (paras. 24-26).



- iii -
A larger problem soon emerged: the income data released by the Thai government in 1989
showed income growth over the previous years to be far less than projected during project
preparation. These new data meant that many housing units that were planned to be affordable to
low-and middle-income people would not be affordable to them. The Bank and NHA offered
different, and sometimes incompatible, responses to this affordability problem. In the end, the
decline in affordability of housing resulted in the exclusion of several sites from the project (paras.
27-34). Closer economic analysis of this project's linkage to the macroeconomy, in retrospect, could
have provided a useful cross-check of the assumptions underpinning the project.
After discussion of various options for the undisbursed balance of the loan, the Bank and
NHA agreed to cancel $12 million and use the uncommitted balance of $2.26 million for a pilot land-
pooling project. This project was preempted by a private developer who purchased and developed the
land under consideration for the pilot, and the rest of the undisbursed balance was cancelled (paras.
37-39).
Results
From a quantitative perspective, little of the project was achieved. Only $6.74 million -- 32%
-- of the $21 million loan was disbursed. Only 2,262 housing units were completed out of the
planned 11,000 units -- 21 %. Most of the housing was built in the regions rather than in Bangkok.
In the regions, five of six sites were completed, yielding 1,681 units, or 86% of the planned 1,951
units. In Bangkok, only a fraction of one site, Lad Krabang, was completed out of a planned six
sites. On Lad Krabang 581 units were built; these units were 6% of the 9,049 units planned for
Bangkok.
Even after cancelling the sub-projects that were least affordable, the project only partly met its
affordability targets. Only 28% of units were affordable to the bottom half of the urban income
distribution, compared to the goal of 70%, and only 56% of the units were affordable to the bottom
70% of the urban income distribution, compared to the goal of 90%. All of the units on all sites
were sold, but only three-fourths of the units were occupied by the end of 1993. Collections have
been satisfactory (paras. 41-46).
The results of the technical assistance components are mixed. The Bank, with Norwegian co-
financing, provided consultants and equipment for several components, which were completed but
required significant follow-up from NHA if they were to achieve the impact intended at appraisal.
Personnel changes, both at NHA and among the consultants, delayed the technical assistance. The
technical assistance work could not resolve an important issue for the agency -- namely, how NHA
might be able to maintain its profitability and serve the poor (paras. 47-48).
Findings and Lessons Learned
The project appeared, during the project design phase, to satisfy NHA's two mandates: (1)
the social mandate of building most of the housing units for low- and middle-income people and (2)
the financial mandate of pricing units at market value rather than subsidizing any units. During
implementation, though, it became clear that the project could not satisfy both of these goals without
a significant reduction in design standards. It appeared during preparation that the mandates could be



- iv -
satisfied simultaneously only because the original income curve suggested that units priced at market
value would be affordable to the targeted groups. The project's achievement of both of these goals,
as formulated, hinged on the accuracy of the original income curve.
Ideally, NHA's incentives and policies would have insured the achievement of both mandates
even if, as actually happened, the projected income curve turned out inaccurate. But NHA could not
achieve both mandates -- standing in the way were minimum design standards. The problem of
minimum design standards is common to public housing producers, for whom producing quality
housing is more politically acceptable than producing cheaper housing. The Bank did engage NHA in
discussions about design standards, financial parameters, and subsidy options during implementation,
when it was clear that both mandates were not attainable. At that point, though, with the project
already underway, the Bank and NHA could not agree on fundamental reform of its policies. On the
subprojects the Bank had already approved, the Bank had to accept that the project would fall short of
meeting NHA's social mandate. On the rest of the subprojects -- constituting the bulk of the loan --
the Bank and NHA agreed to cancel Bank financing.
Had the Bank discussed project specifics in the context of broader policy reform earlier on,
the Bank and NHA might have agreed on reforms that could have insured the satisfaction of both
mandates in this and future projects. An earlier discussion of broad policy reform would have
allowed a more thorough examination of NHA's incentives and policies, since the Bank and NHA
would not have had the pressure of trying to salvage parts of a project already under implementation.
Rather than negotiate specific pricing policies and specific design changes, the Bank and NHA would
have been able to discuss the broader issues of when it is acceptable to subsidize housing units and
whether NHA had the political will and technical efficiency to produce units profitably for the bottom
of the housing market.
Perhaps the Bank and NHA could have agreed on a reform program that would have insured
satisfaction of both of NHA's mandates. Or, perhaps the Bank would have discovered early on what
became clear during implementation: NHA could not target the poor while maximizing profits and
therefore could not fulfill both of its mandates. In that case Bank participation in the project would
have been hard to defend.
In a broader sense, the experience of this project should discourage the Bank from supporting
direct production by public-sector housing agencies, since most public sector housing agencies, like
NHA, find it difficult to produce low-income units profitably. The Bank should instead concentrate
its work with public-sector housing agencies on two goals. First, with agencies that function in
housing markets that are less efficient than Thailand's, and where the private sector has therefore not
yet been able to move downmarket: the Bank should explore sector-wide policy reform to improve
market functioning and, in the meantime, should discuss appropriate, transparent-subsidy options for
serving the poor. Second, with agencies that function in efficient housing markets well-served by the
private sector, like Thailand's, the Bank should encourage privatization of public-sector housing
production. If, in those countries, the public sector is unable or unwilling to compete effectively with
the private sector at the bottom end of the housing market, the Bank should encourage systematic
reform, and perhaps ultimately privatization, of the public agency.






PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
THAIAND
THIRD SHELTER PROJECT (LOAN 2795-TH)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name:       Third Shelter Project
Loan Number:        2795-TH
RVP Unit:           East Asia and Pacific Region
Country:            Kingdom of Thailand
Sector:             Urban
Subsector:          Housing
Background
The Macroeconomy
1.    Thailand's history of steady, stable growth gave way in the 1980's to an economic slowdown,
followed by one of the most rapid growth rates in the world at the end of the decade.
2.    Thailand's economic openness and reliance on foreign oil made it susceptible to international
economic fluctuations, and the oil price shocks and early-1980's recession led to high inflation,
growing fiscal and external deficits, and increased foreign borrowing. Structural adjustment, weak
domestic and international demand, and an appreciating Baht (currency) brought down inflation by
1983. Growth averaged only 5% per year for the early 1980's, and slightly over 3% in 1985, and
the fiscal deficit remained high.
3.    Starting in 1987, however, growth jumped to 10-15% per year. Private investment grew at
nearly 30% per year, led by foreign direct investment. Exports accounted for nearly half of
Thailand's rapid growth, and the composition of these exports changed dramatically. In only five
years (1985 to 1990), agriculture's share of exports dropped from 38% to 17%, and manufacturing's
share rose from 43% to 65%. Thailand became a manufacturing base for multinational firms, and
closer economic integration in Asia brought Thailand new investors and new markets.
4.    Thailand's recent growth accelerated the migration to the cities - Bangkok and the numerous,
though far smaller, regional cities. The urban population grew at 5.4% per year during the 1970's
and 4.6% during the 1980's, compared to the national rate of 2.7% in the 1970's and 1.9% in the
1980's. Rapid urbanization has caused serious problems, especially in Bangkok but in other cities as
well: poor housing conditions, crowded buses, pollution, and legendary congestion. Still, Thailand
remains predominately rural. Only 23% of Thailand's population lived in cities in 1991, compared to
43% of the Philippines, 44% of Malaysia, 60% of China, and 52% of the East Asia region.



The Public Sector and Bank Involvement
5.    The public agency responsible for the development of new housing for lower-income groups
in urban areas is the National Housing Authority (NHA). NHA is a state enterprise, established in
1973 by combining four public housing agencies. From its establishment to 1985, NHA reported
constructing about 84,000 units, or 18% of the legal housing units constructed in Thailand.
6.    In its early years, NHA built primarily conventional apartments and detached and
semidetached units that were heavily subsidized. In 1977, the Government, unwilling to continue
providing such large subsidies, suspended approval of new projects and asked NHA to prepare
alternative programs requiring lower subsidies. NHA shifted its program to lower-cost approaches of
sites-and-services developments with full cost recovery, as well as lower-cost slum improvement
programs instead of more extensive slum clearance and resettlement.
7.    The Bank supported NHA's new mandate with two shelter projects. The first was the
Bangkok Sites-and-Services and Slum Upgrading Project (Loan 1556-TH, 1978). This project partly
financed a limited-scale demonstration of new, replicable lower-cost housing methods. The project
achieved full cost recovery on the sites-and-services sub-projects, but cost recovery on the slum
improvement sub-projects was poorer than intended because beneficiaries were unwilling to pay for
urban services directly. Only two-thirds of project beneficiaries were in the intended target group:
the PCR explained that lower-income families preferred complete housing units rather than the
incomplete units provided under this project. The project could not absorb the whole loan because of
the Baht was devalued and because unexpected co-financing covered some of the technical assistance
that the Bank had planned to fund; 21% of the loan was cancelled.
8.    The second shelter project, the National Sites-and-Services project (Loan 1870-TH, 1980),
introduced the low-cost housing schemes from the first shelter project to regional cities and again
achieved full cost recovery for sites-and-services. It also supported a housing finance study. Slow
land acquisition delayed the project, however: the project had too few sites to absorb the entire loan,
and 19% of the loan was cancelled.
9.    In 1983, the Thai government articulated a housing sector policy for the first time. The new
policy statement reaffirmed NHA's role in providing housing to lower-income people. Government
subsidies for slum upgrading would continue, but all other housing subsidies to NHA ended, requiring
NHA to achieve full cost recovery through market pricing and market-rate lending. Also, the
Government Housing Bank (GHB) would assume NHA's responsibility of providing long-term
financing for low-income housing, with NHA retaining responsibility for housing production. From
this time on, NHA's five-year plans included a goal of targeting 70% of housing production for the
bottom half of the urban income distribution.
The Private Sector
10.   Unlike housing industries in most developing countries, including most East Asian countries,
private developers in Thailand face a very low regulatory burden and have access to commercial
finance. Research reveals that housing supply in Thailand is extremely elastic: a good indicator is
house-price-to-income ratio, which is 2.5 in Thailand, 3.9 for the median industrialized country, 5.5
for the median developing country, and over 10 for most centrally-planned economies. In this sense,
the housing sector in Thailand is a model for the developing world.



11.   During the 1980's, the private sector began moving downmarket, providing affordable
housing to low-income people. Surveys in the mid-1980's revealed that private developers reduced
their own standards for housing, building smaller units on smaller plots. They also lowered
construction costs by developing uniform models, for which they purchased raw materials in bulk.
These cheaper units sold well and suggested that the private sector would be able to continue pushing
the formal housing market further down the income distribution. Even after the government's new
housing policy in 1983 and NHA's renewed focus on low-income housing, the private sector
continued to produce housing below NHA's lowest-cost units, though not enough to meet demand.
12.   In spite of these encouraging signs of continued improvement in the housing sector, Thailand
had a serious housing shortage in the 1980's. Government estimates suggest that two new housing
units were built for every three new urban households between 1980 and 1985, yielding a shortage of
135,000 units in 1985. During these years, the two major constraints on improved housing for the
poor were the scarcity of long-term finance and the lack of available, serviced land, especially in
Bangkok. First, housing finance was provided for upper-income people by the GHB and commercial
banks. At that time, these institutions tended to lend not to individuals, but to private developers for
construction, with none of this financing available to lower-income people for mortgages. Second,
available land, though less regulated by developing-country standards, was in short supply because
landowners tended to keep land idle in anticipation of higher future returns.
13.   This housing shortage particularly affected the poor: as a result, at the time of project
appraisal, 20% of Bangkok's population (and a higher proportion in other, smaller cities) was
believed to live in urban slums lacking proper access, drainage, water supply, and other basic
infrastructure. This proportion declined to 10-15% by the end of the 1980's - when project
implementation was well underway - because of a private-sector housing boom.
Objectives and Description
14.   The project was designed to support the Government's housing policy through the following
objectives:
a)    to increase NHA's reliance on domestically mobilized resources through the
establishment of a functional relationship between NHA and GHB that would finance
a part of NHA's new housing construction and housing finance program;
b)    to promote GHB's lending to lower-income households to support its mandate in
playing a leading role in housing finance;
c)    to strengthen NHA's management practices, planning capabilities, and policy
development functions;
d)    to support NHA's core housing development program for lower- and middle-income
families and to promote sound cost recovery and project evaluation policies; and,
e)    to improve the availability of housing sector data necessary for proper housing policy
development.



- 4 -
15.   To achieve these objectives, the project was designed to finance:
a)    construction of about 11,000 core housing units and serviced plots, including
supporting infrastructure and community facilities, of which 82% would be located in
the Bangkok area (on six sites) and 18% in six other cities; and
b)    technical assistance to (i) strengthen NHA's planning and policy development
functions; (ii) expand computer facilities and enhance computer use in data
processing within NHA, including development of an efficient management
information system; (iii) assist NHA in developing more cost-efficient housing
prototypes and infrastructure standards; and (iv) contribute to the establishment of a
Housing Information Center.
16.   Subprojects eligible for financing under the project would comply with site and design
parameters as well as financial and economic criteria that would insure the following:
a)    the adequacy of demand for lower-income housing in the subproject area;
b)    maintenance of completed facilities and infrastructure by the responsible local
authorities;
c)    the affordability of project housing by lower-income groups - the project targeted
70% of units for the bottom half of the urban income distribution and 90% of units
for the bottom 70% of the urban income distribution;
d)    the proper selection of home buyers for project housing;
e)    the recovery of full development and recurrent costs and overheads; and
f)    an economic rate of return on subprojects of at least 12%.
Design and Organization
Spedfics
17.   The loan was designed to finance $21 million of the total project cost of $72.4 million. The
Bank loan was made to NHA, guaranteed by the Kingdom of Thailand, for a period of 17 years,
including four years grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The Bank loan would have financed
40% of the civil works component, costing $55.7 million. Land acquisition was expected to cost
$15.8 million, and technical assistance was expected to cost $900,000. GHB would have
underwritten an NHA bond offering that would have covered some of the project cost; GHB would
also have provided about 2,000 mortgage loans for NHA's customers at the Nonthaburi project site,
one of the six sites in Bangkok.
Formulation
18.   When identified in 1981, the project included major slum upgrading and urban infrastructure
components, and its cost was estimated at over $200 million. Under that plan the Bangkok



Metropolitan Administration (BMA) would have received part of the loan, and primary objectives of
the project were to introduce better coordination between BMA and NHA and to decentralize some of
the central govermnent's urban development functions. Coordination difficulties between BMA and
NHA caused the Thai government to request a division of the project into separate loans to BMA and
NHA. The primary coordination difficulty was NHA's slow land acquisition, which caused NHA to
lag behind BMA in project preparation. (The BMA portion of the loan never went forward,
however.)
19.   The slum upgrading component remained in the project plan until 1985. The Thai
government encouraged NHA and the Bank to drop that component because it wanted NHA to focus
on profitable sites-and-services development. Between 1985 and 1987 the loan was scaled back
further, to $21 million, because NHA wanted to finance more of the project on its own. NHA
preferred to rely on its own funds because it had, during the mid- and late-1980's, become very liquid
as financial reflows came in from older projects.
20.   The six-year period between identification and approval (April 1987) was unusually long for
an urban project. It did, however, allow NHA time to acquire eight sites for the project (covering
70% of planned units), insuring that land acquisition would not interfere with the implementation
schedule as it had under the second shelter project. These included three Bangkok sites (Nonthaburi,
Thonburi, and Lad Krabang) and five regional sites (Pattaya, Nakorn Ratchasima, Lampang, Ubon
Ratchathani, and Ayuthaya). The long preparation process also removed the coordination problems
between BMA and NHA that might have arisen again during implementation had the originally-
identified project involving both institutions been approved. As approved, the project was under the
sole management of the NHA, with ancillary participation of GHB.
21.   An important part of project preparation was determining whether the planned housing
construction would indeed be affordable to the intended beneficiaries. This affordability analysis was
based on a 1981 survey conducted by NHA. Data from that survey were projected forward to 1986,
following a methodology to which the Bank and NHA agreed. Using these estimates of household
income and estimates of construction costs, the Bank determined that the project would meet its
affordability goals of producing 70% of units for the bottom half of the urban income distribution and
90% of units for the bottom 70% of the urban income distribution.
Implementation
22.   After approval in April 1987, the loan proceeded smoothly. The regional subprojects
progressed rapidly, with bidding for construction contracts soon underway on Pattaya and Nakorn
Ratchasima, and feasibility drafts complete for Lampang, Ubon Ratchathani, and Ayuthaya. A sixth
regional site, Udon Thani, was identified. Construction began on Pattaya within the first year of
implementation, and all units were sold the first day of sale, fifteen months before construction on the
site was complete.
23.   The Bangkok subprojects were delayed several months because the Bank and NHA agreed to
conduct marketing studies. These studies were conducted in response to increased competition in the
middle-income housing market from private developers and a softening of demand for NHA-built
lower-cost units. By the end of 1988, designs were ready for the three sites, with bidding underway
and construction due to start in the next year. Other Bangkok sites were identified for purchase
during this time, but asking prices rose rapidly and made them unaffordable for this project.



- 6 -
24.   By 1987 Thailand had recovered from its earlier slowdown, and the rate of investment
jumped. The increased demand for construction and building materials resulted in the government
mandating the revision of all construction contracts - all contractors would be entitled to a time
extension and to a higher price. The time extension did not affect the project, but several
construction contracts were consequently more expensive than anticipated.
25.   The rising costs affected the Bangkok sites more than the regional sites. New estimates in
April 1989 revealed input-cost increases of 25-67% on the three Bangkok sites. These increases were
due almost entirely to increases in the cost of building materials, not land costs. To adjust for these
higher costs, NHA considered building higher-density units on Nonthaburi, the site with the most
rapidly-increasing costs. Also, NHA and the Bank agreed not to add more Bangkok area subprojects
to the three already acquired and designed, thus reducing the total number of units by 30%.
Restricting the number of subprojects kept the total project cost within budget. But the rising costs
threatened to make the individual units less affordable.
26.   A second factor that raised the cost of planned housing units was that NHA gradually
escalated the design standards on some of the sites. Many units that were intended to be "core
housing units" - that is, incomplete units on fully-serviced plots - were redesigned as complete,
ready-to-inhabit units. This escalation of design standards was gradual but continued throughout
project implementation.
27.   The exact impacts of the rising costs and the design changes on affordability were difficult to
gauge because another, more critical factor arose. In 1989, while the rising construction costs were
becoming apparent, NHA released the results of the 1986 household income survey. According to
the new survey, actual income in 1986 was less than half - about 45% - the level projected for 1986
using the 1981 survey data.
28.   It was several months between NHA's revelation of the new income survey data and the
Bank's translation of these survey data into an affordability analysis of the project. During this time,
from March 1989 to September 1989, the Bank developed more realistic assumptions for projecting
income data forward than those used during appraisal to project the original 1981 data forward.
Using these new assumptions, the Bank recalculated the affordability analysis. The proportion of
units affordable to the bottom 50% of the income distribution fell from 70% at appraisal to 10%; the
proportion of units affordable to the bottom 70% fell from 90% at appraisal to 40%.
29.   With the new income curve, many of the sites that had been assumed to meet the affordability
criteria now missed the criteria. Prior to the revelation of the new income curve in March 1989, the
Bank had already issued its "no objection" to the contracts awarded for development of three sites:
Pattaya, Nakorn Ratchasima, and Lampang. Regardless of the impact of the new data on the
affordability of housing on these sites, the Bank was legally committed to financing their construction.
On the other five sites, the bidding process had begun and, in some cases, contracts had been
awarded by NHA, but the Bank had not yet given its approval of the contracts. On these sites, the
Bank was not yet legally bound to finance construction and therefore reevaluated the affordability of
the sites using the new data.
30.   None of the five sites under consideration - Nonthaburi, Thonburi, Lad Krabang, Ubon
Ratchathani, and Ayuthaya - could meet the affordability criteria given the new income curve, so the
Bank proposed several options for improving the affordability of the sites: (i) adjust the financial



parameters affecting homebuyers - for instance, raising the downpayment, lowering the interest rate
(though not below the rate of inflation), or raising the fraction of income that may go toward housing;
(ii) reduce the sale price on some units below market value but still above cost; and
(iii) lower design standards.
31.   Of the three options, NHA preferred adjusting the financial parameters. The Bank and NHA
agreed to raise the downpayment level and to raise the fraction of income devoted to housing. But
NHA was only willing to go so far. NHA was unwilling to reduce desun standards, for it had had
difficulty marketing lower-cost incomplete units in the past. And, NHA elected to cowtime pricing
all units at full market value, since the Thai government encouraged NHA to rely entirely on market
pricing without any form of subsidy. NHA's own incentive structure encouraged market pricing,
also: NHA Board and employee bonuses were tied to the agency's profit level. Thus the
improvement in housing affordability was slight.
32.   In spite of the overall decline in affordability, units on some sites were still priced to be
affordable to middle-income people - that is, affordable up to the 70th percentile of the income
distribution. On Ayuthaya, 40% of units would be affordable to low- and middle-income people; on
Lad Krabang part 1 (other parts had not yet been bid), 60%; and on Ubon Ratchathani, 74%. While
these levels were below the goal at appraisal of targeting 90% of units for low- and middle-income
people, the Bank considered the impact on the target group to be significant enough to warrant Bank
involvement. In February 1990, the Bank offered its 'no objection' to the signed contracts on those
three sites.
33.   During the spring of 1990, the Bank received new sales price estimates from NHA for the
recently-approved and the not-yet-approved contracts. These sales price estimates were significantly
higher than those used to conduct the affordability analysis a few months before. With the new sales
prices, 32% of the units on Ubon Ratchathani were affordable to the target group, compared to 74%
a few months earlier; none of the units on Lad Krabang part 1 or Ayuthaya were affordable to the
target group, compared to 60% and 40%, respectively, a few months earlier. But on these sites, the
contracts had already been approved by the Bank, and the Bank wished to follow its obligation to
disburse against these contracts.
34.   On the sites whose contracts the Bank had not yet approved - Nonthaburi, Thonburi, and Lad
Krabang parts 2 and 3 - the Bank was able to exercise another option: excluding those sites from the
project. The estimated sales prices on these sites rose beyond the level that the Bank considered to be
appropriate for Bank financing. The Bank deleted these sites from the project in early- and mid-1990,
reducing the size of the project significantly. These deleted sites accounted for 4,619 units, 42% of
the 11,000 units planned at appraisal. The sites that the Bank already committed to finance -
Pattaya, Nakorn Ratchasima, Lampang, Ubon Ratchathani, Ayuthaya, and Lad Krabang part 1 -
comprised 2,262 units, only 21% of those planned at appraisal. So even though the project included
construction on six out of eight originally-identified sites, the project included only one-fifth of the
originally-planned units.
35.   Procurement proceeded smoothly on most sites. On three sites, though, bids for construction
contracts came in far enough above initial estimates that NHA took further action before awarding the
contracts. First: NHA received bids for Nakorn Ratchasima first in February 1988; considering
those bids too high, NHA rebid the subproject with design changes and approved the lowest bid in
August 1988. Second: NHA received bids for Ayuthaya in January 1989, and the lowest bid was



- 8 -
30% above the initial estimate; NHA suspected collusion, annulled the process, and rebid the site,
awarding the contract in August 1989. Third: NHA received bids for Ubon RatcOani in two
rounds in the spring of 1989. The first round there were three bidders, and the second round there
was one bidder. Due to insufficient competition in the bidding process, NHA cacuhd tose bids
and negotiated a contract in September 1989. The Bank approved this contract only aAaS Bank staff
verified that NHA could not be expected to receive a reasonable response to the bidding process on
that site.
36.   The affordability problems notwithstanding, construction on all remaining sites continued
smoothly. All sites except Ubon Ratchathani were fully sold at least a year before site completion.
Construction on Pattaya ended in 1989; construction on Nakorn Ratchima, Lampang, and Ubon
Ratchathani ended in 1991; and construction on Ayuthaya and Lad Krabang part 1 ended in 1992.
37.   The Bank's financing of these six sites used $6.74 million of the $21 million loan. Toward
the end of 1990 the Bank and NHA discussed several options for the balance of the loan. NHA did
not want to add new sites to this project that would have needed to satisfy the various eligibility
criteria. Had NHA been interested in adding sites, it would have been simple, for NHA already
owned several other suitable sites - sites that NHA was preserving for the production of higher-
income housing. In fact, NHA proposed using some of the uncommitted loan to finance high-cost
housing and medium-rise rental units on these sites. The Bank refused, and proposed instead to use
the loan for slum upgrading, which NHA rejected. Anyway, NHA did not need money; by 1990 it
was not only profitable but very liquid, with $89 million in available funds.
38.   So the Bank and NHA agreed to cancel most - $12 million - of the uncommitted balance.
The Bank would continue to disburse against the six complete and near-complete sites, and no others.
At NHA's initiative, the remaining $2.26 million was designated for a pilot land-pooling program, a
joint venture between NHA and owners of undeveloped, unserviced land. NHA would assemble
these separate land parcels, provide an efficient infrastructure network for the plot, and subdivide it.
NHA would sell some of the land to recover the infrastructure costs and would return the rest to
landowners at a much higher value than when unserviced. Land pooling would have provided another
profitable activity for NHA while increasing the private buildable land supply. It would have also
rationalized infrastructure, since most undeveloped parcels of land in Bangkok were long, thin strips
with infrastructure access only on one end, resulting in inefficient infrastructure layouts.
39.   The Bank agreed to the pilot land pooling scheme; NHA selected a site and began
negotiations with landowners. A private developer, recognizing the proximity of the location to other
NHA-serviced land, bought a central plot from a landowner and immediately developed and sold it.
This preempted the pilot project by reducing the value-added of land-pooling. A transaction-freeze
law, which would forbid land transactions on sites being considered for land-pooling, would have
prevented the private developer from purchasing this land. Thailand lacked this kind of legislation,
however, so NHA was unable to proceed with the pilot project.
40.   In June 1993, the remaining $2.26 million of the loan was cancelled.



-9-
Results
Project Effects
41.   From a quantitative perspective, little of the project was achieved. Only $6.74 million - 32%
- of the $21 million loan was disbursed. Only 2,262 housing units were completed out of the
planned 11,000 units - 21%. Most of the housing was built in the regions rather than in Bangkok.
In the regions, five of six sites were completed, yielding 1,681 units, or 86% of the planned 1,951
units. In Bangkok, only a fraction of one site, Lad Krabang, was compbted out of a plaaed six
sites. On Lad Krabang 581 units were built; these units were 6% of the 9,049 units planned for
Bangkok.
42.   The difference between the regions, where most of the units were built, and Bangkok, where
few of the units were built, was that the Bangkok sites were more affected by increases in land value,
increases in construction cost, and gradual escalation of design standards. Those pressures alone
might not have forced the cancellation of those sites, had the original income curve been an accurate
reflection of the income distribution. But the combination of the cost increases and the downward
revision of the income curve made cancellation of many sites necessary.
Affordability
43.   Much of the implementation experience centered on the question of affordability. There are
two ways to measure whether the completed sites met the affbrdability criteria after all. The first is
to repeat the affordability analysis by comparing actual sale prices to the revised income distribution
curve. This comparison shows that even after cancelling the sub-projects that were least affordable
(Nonthaburi, Thonburi, and Lad Krabang parts 2 and 3), the project only partly met its affordability
targets. Only 28 % of units were affordable to the bottom half of the urban income distribution,
compared to the goal of 70%, and only 56% of the units were affordable to the bottom 70% of the
urban income distribution, compared to the goal of 90%. Affordability varied among the sub-
projects: on Pattaya and Nakorn Ratchasima, the affordability targets were met; on Ubon
Ratchathani and Lad Krabang, none of the units were affordable to the bottom half of the income
distribution; and on Ayuthaya, none of the units were affordable to the bottom 70% of the income
distribution. (See table 6a)
44.   The second is to compare the income of purchasers to the revised income distribution curve.
These data also show that the completed sites missed the affordability criteria. But, in addition, these
data show that the homes were purchased by the people whose incomes were close to the level
appropriate for the cost of the home, rather than by higher-income people who could afford much
more expensive housing. Thus, the fraction of beneficiaries who fell in the targeted group almost
exactly matched the fraction of housing judged to be affordable. 27% of the units were purchased by
people in the bottom half of the income distribution, compared to the goal of 70%, and 56% of units
were purchased by people in the bottom 70% of the income distribution, compared to the goal of
90%. Again, affordability varied among the sub-projects: Pattaya came closest to meeting the
criteria, with 51% of purchasers in the bottom half of the income distribution and 86% in the bottom
70%, and Ayuthaya was furthest from meeting the criteria, with 8% of purchasers in the bottom half
of the income distribution and 31% in the bottom 70%.



- 10-
Occupmq
45.   Another measure of the project's impact is the occupancy rate of the compled units.
Though all of the units on all sites were sold, occupancy was as low as 60% at Lad Krabang and
Lampang, NHA reported. Other sites had occupancy levels between 70% and 100%, and occupancy
overall was 77%. These data are for the end of 1993, two years after consruction on the last site
ended. (See table 4 for completion dates of each subproject and table 6a for occupancy rates on each
site.)
46.   Despite these low occupny rates, collections have so far been satsfatoy. This suggests
that many beneficiaries purchased units as investments rather than for immediate shear. A partial
explanation is that 40% of the units were purchased by civil servat. Many of the civil servants
receive subsidized renl housin , which they lose at rei_remet pewhap tme civil  vawnt
purchased units as retirement homes and plan to leave them vacant until retirement. The Bank had
required that low-income units must not be used as second homes, but made no restriction on other
units, so the low occupancy rate does not represent a criterion unfulfilled. But to the extent that an
implicit objective of the project was not only to build a number of housing units but to house an
equivalent number of households, the low occupancy rate does represent a goal unmet.
Technical Assistnc
47.   The results of the technical assistance components are mixed. The Bank, with Norwegian co-
financing, provided consultants and equipment for several components, listed below, which were
completed but required significant follow-up from NHA if they were to achieve the impact intended at
appraisal. Personnel changes, both at NHA and among the consultants, delayed the technical
assistance.
48.   The first component, the policy and planning component, resulted in a report on past
performance and an extended discussion of NHA's mandate. The report was pessimistic about
NHA's ability to maintain a balance between profitable housing and serving the poor: it termed NHA
a 'somewhat contradictory organization" in its attempt to be financially self-sufficient while having
primary responsibility for housing the poor. The report recommended that, to fulfill its role as a
provider of low-income housing, NHA should receive explicit government budget subsidies. The
second component, the Management Information System, was partly operational by departure, having
developed a preliminary design for a comprehensive information system. Computer systems for
information management were installed and training was provided to staff. Future training plans were
developed in anticipation of the completion of additional segments of the MIS. The third component,
the housing and infrastructure standards review, developed several specific recommendations for cost-
effective design changes for infrastructure. The fourth component, the Housing Information System,
successfully developed a housing needs and affordability model and a population growth model, and
NHA planned to incorporate models of investment behavior and socio-demographic data to complete
the model.
Summary
49.   Of the five original objectives, some were achieved, and others became less relevant as
conditions changed over time. The first two objectives, increasing NHA's reliance on domestic funds
and promoting GHB lending to low-income households, depended on the participation of GHB.



- 11 -
Because the site for which GHB would have offered mortgage finance - Nonthaburi, in Bangkok -
was cancelled, GHB's involvement never commenced, and the first two objectives were unfulfilled.
But by the late 1980's and early 1990's, NHA became very liquid and no longer needed the funds
that GHB would have contributed to the project. NHA's liquidity increased for three reasons: (1)
NHA slowed new land acquisition; (2) NHA's expenditures on squatter upgrading were low; and (3)
NHA enjoyed financial reflows from previous investments and projects. Also, in the late 1980's and
early 1990's, GHB expanded its own mortgage business and its role in the housing finance system.
These changes to NHA and GHB made the first two objectives of the project less relevant by the end
of the loan than they were at the time of appraisal.
50.   The third objective, strengthening NHA's management, policy, and planning through technical
assistance, met considerable success in developing systems for planning and in bringing crucial policy
questions under discussion. The technical assistance work could not, however, resolve an important
issue for the agency - namely, how NHA might be able to maintain its profitability and serve the
poor. The fourth objective, supporting NHA's construction of lower- and middle-income housing,
met little success: as discussed above, only one-fifth of planned units were built, about half of which
reached the targeted income groups. Fifth was to strengthen the Housing Information Center to
improve the availability of sector data, and there is no evidence in the project documentation that this
center was augmented.
Bank Performance
Design
51.   From identification, an underlying goal of the project was providing housing to low- and
middle-income people. In spite of the metamorphoses the project underwent, this goal remained
intact: the subproject eligibility criteria included strict, specific standards for housing affordability
and beneficiary selection. The housing would be made affordable in accordance with NHA's own
plan for targeting the poor. Another underlying goal of the project was to support NHA's
institutional development and financial stability - particularly after the Thai government removed
NHA's direct subsidies. The first two Bank shelter projects had already encouraged profit-oriented
policies like market pricing of units and full cost recovery, and this third project was no different.
52.   The Bank assumed that both goals - targeting the poor and making a profit - could be
achieved simultaneously. This assumption was supported by the success of Thailand's private
developers in building and marketing low-income housing. But the private sector provides housing
more efficiently than the public sector in most countries, and experience in the 1970's and 1980's
showed that Thailand exemplified this worldwide pattern.
53.   In the past, NHA had problems combining these two objectives, and argued that lower-income
families wished to inhabit only completed housing that met high minimum standards. And since
housing subsidies from the government had been eliminated, NHA had consistently chosen
profitability over low-income housing when faced with that choice. One might argue that NHA must
be free to make that choice if it were directed to act as a private developer would - below, that
statement wil be discussed in the evaluation of NHA's performance.
54.   But the Bank did not question NHA's profit motivation and had, in fact, encouraged it in
previous projects. The Bank also overestimated NHA's interest in receiving this loan - the Thai



- 12 -
government was trying to wean state enterprises off foreign funds, and NHA's own asets awn
reserves had grown rapidly in the 1980's, causing NHA to eschew donor participation in its projects,
given the choice.
55.   Given these initonal conditions, much hinged on the projection of the original income
curve during the design phase. lhis income curve showed whether it would be pole for NHA to
build affordable housing profitably. A 'yes' answer allowed the loan to proceed. A "no" would
have forced the Bank and NHA to discuss the different measures to improve affordability: changing
design standards, adjusting financial parameters, and changing pricing policy. This discussion did
occur during implementation and led to the cancellation of two-thirds of the loan. Had this discussion
occurred during appraisal, the whole project would have been in the balance, as the subprojects
eventually were when that discussion took place. Because the original income curve suggested that
affordability targets would be met, the loan was allowed to proceed - but the underlying problems
were only deferred, not solved.
56.   The Bank should have used a more conservative income curve from the start. The original
curve was projected forward at 10-13% per year - well above actual growth in nominal per capita
GNP, which was in the range of 4-6% per year. Had the Bank used a more conservative estimate,
then the difficult, but ultimately necessary, policy dialogue with NHA would have occurred sooner;
at worst, the whole loan would have been cancelled and the resources directed elsewhere.
Implementation
57.   The Bank's performance was stronger during project implementation. Most important, the
Bank displayed flexibility in its willingness to reevaluate project sites when faced with increasing costs
and the new income curve. By allowing the regional subprojects to go forward, the Bank implicitly
loosened the strict affordability criteria and enabled the construction of many housing units that were
purchased by low- and middle-income people. During the two reevaluation periods - when the
income curve was revised and just before the $12 million was cancelled - the Bank offered NHA a
range of options, appealing to NHA's motives while making its own objectives clear.
58.   The Bank demonstrated understanding of NHA's motives and incentives again when it agreed
to the pilot land-pooling project. Land pooling would have generated a profit for NHA and required
no strict criteria for targeting beneficiaries. By increasing the supply of serviced land, it would have
provided a way to address one of the major constraints on land development in Bangkok. The pilot
might have achieved important sector objectives while giving NHA a sense of ownership of the
project.
59.   The Bank also performed well by considering the fate of each site independently. The impact
of rising costs affected Bangkok and the regional cities differently, and the sites had progressed to
different stages when the revised income curve was revealed. Rather than cancelling the whole
project or pursuing the other extreme - funding exclusively upper-income housing on some sites -
the Bank negotiated each site separately in order to concentrate resources on those sites that would
have the greatest impact on the targeted beneficiaries. The inclusion of both Bangkok and regional
sites made this project more complex than the first two housing projects, and the Bank managed this
additional layer of complexity well.



- 13 -
Borrower Performance
60.   If NHA were a private firm, producing housing for profit without specific income targeting,
NHA performed very well. NHA responded to market signals by changing sale prices according to
market conditions. Later, when NHA and the Bank discussed strategies for making subprojects more
affordable in light of the revised income curve, NHA protected its own financial position, resisting
the proposal to narrow its profit margin by pricing some units below market value (but above cost).
Like any private firm, NHA knew its own streagths and weaknese - specifically, that it competed
better in the middle- and upper-income housing market than in the lower-income housing market, and
wanted to concentrate its production for the top of the income distribution. NHA had every incentive
to be profit-oriented: the Bank had encouraged them, the Thai government had eliminated housing
subsidies (except for squatter upgrading projects) to the agency, and the NHA Board's and staff's
bonuses were tied to agency profits.
61.   But NHA is not a private firm. Its mandate is to provide low-income housing. Its own Sixth
Five-Year Plan, of which this project was a part, committed it to targeting its housing production for
the poor. Regardless of its other incentives and directives, NHA pledged to provide lower-income
housing. There were three critical times when NHA had to balance its social mandate and its
financial mandate.
62.   The first time was after the revelation of the new income curve, when the Bank and NHA
discussed options for making each subproject more affordable. NHA rejected the two options - site
redesign and non-market pricing - that would have had the greatest impact on affordability. The
upshot was the removal of two-and-a-half sites constituting 42% of the planned units and, for the
other sites, accepting that the project would only partly achieve its affordability goal.
63.   The second time was when the Bank and NHA discussed options for the undisbursed balance.
Instead of adding new sites that would meet the affordability criteria, NHA proposed using the loan to
build higher-cost housing and rental units on the original sites. The Bank rejected these options that
would have contributed nothing to lower-income people and would have only served to increase
NHA's large and growing annual profits.
64.   The third time was during the discussions about occupancy of the units. The agreed selection
criteria restricted allocation of lower-cost units to people who owned no other home. A covenant in
the sales agreement requiring occupancy in a given period existed but was not enforced. Thus, units
that might have been allocated to needier households were not. To NHA, occupancy was of less
concern as long as cost recovery was satisfactory, as it was. NHA's financial mandate overwhelmed
its social mandate.
65.   The technical assistance component included policy discussions that explored methods for
achieving both the financial and the social goals of NHA. However, NHA proved reluctant to
combine these goals in a single program and ultimately its focus on fulfilling its financial mandate
precluded successful targeting of the poor.
66.   If it were truly impossible to combine affordability with profitability, the Bank would have
been unreasonable in its directions to join these two goals. However, these goals have been
successfully combined by private developers in Thailand and elsewhere. Only profit motivated
private developers, and they continued to expand downmarket. Private developers appear able to



- 14 -
produce and sell the kind of units that NHA had difficulty marketing: in Bangkok, 7% of housing
units on the market in 1989 were priced below the lowest-price house in Lad Krabang, with some
units around half the price of the cheapest Lad Krabang house. This might be a matter of technical
inefficiency or high minimum design standards on NHA's part; for whatever reason, NHA was
unable or unwilling to compete at the bottom of the housing market.
67.   In other matters: NHA's audits were consistently late. Though the delays in preparing
annual audits fell from 27 months to 8 months during the project period, the process of auditing
might deserve review in order to reduce delays further.
68.   NHA reported particular success in bringing down the level of arrears. Th  NHA missed
arrears targets in the early years of the project, by 1992 arrears fell to 12% (down from 33% in
1986), compared to a goal of 15% at project close.
Lessons Learned
69.   The project appeared, during the project design phase, to satisfy NHA's two mandates: (1)
the social mandate of building most of the housing units for low- and middle-income people and (2)
the financial mandate of pricing units at market value rather than subsidizing any units. During
implementation, though, it became clear that the project could not satisfy both of these goals without
a significant reduction in design standards. It appeared during preparation that the mandates could be
satisfied simultaneously only because the original income curve suggested that units priced at market
value would be affordable to the targeted groups. The project's achievement of both of these goals,
as formulated, hinged on the accuracy of the original income curve.
70.   Ideally, NHA's incentives and policies would have insured the achievement of both mandates
even if, as actually happened, the projected income curve turned out inaccurate. But NHA could not
achieve both mandates - standing in the way were minimum design standards. The problem of
minimum design standards is common to public housing producers, for whom producing quality
housing is more politically acceptable than producing cheaper housing. The Bank did engage NHA in
discussions about design standards, financial parameters, and subsidy options during implementation,
when it was clear that both mandates were not attainable. At that point, though, with the project
already underway, the Bank and NHA could not agree on fundamental reform of its policies. On the
subprojects the Bank had already approved, the Bank had to accept that the project would fall short of
meeting NHA's social mandate. On the rest of the subprojects - constituting the bulk of the loan --
the Bank and NHA agreed to cancel Bank financing.
71.   Had the Bank discussed project specifics in the context of broader policy reform earlier on,
the Bank and NHA might have agreed on reforms that could have insured the satisfaction of both
mandates in this and future projects. An earlier discussion of broad policy reform would have
allowed a more thorough examination of NHA's incentives and policies, since the Bank and NHA
would not have had the pressure of trying to salvage parts of a project already under implementation.
Rather than negotiate specific pricing policies and specific design changes, the Bank and NHA would
have been able to discuss the broader issues of when it is acceptable to subsidize housing units and
whether NHA had the political will and technical efficiency to produce units profitably for the bottom
of the housing market.



- 15 -
72.   Perhaps the Bank and NHA could have agreed on a reform program that would have insured
satisfaction of both of NHA's mandates. Or, perhaps the Bank would have discovered early on what
became clear during implementation: NHA could not target the poor while maximizing profits and
therefore could not fulfill both of its mandates. In that case Bank participation in the project would
have been hard to defend.
73.   In a broader sense, the experience of this project should discourage the Bank from supporting
direct production by public-sector housing agencies, since most public sector housing agencies, like
NHA, find it difficult to produce low-income units profitably. The Bank should instead concentrate
its work with public-sector housing agencies on two goals. First, with agencies that function in
housing markets that are less efficient than Thailand's, and where the private sector has therefore not
yet been able to move downmarket: the Bank should explore sector-wide policy reform to improve
market functioning and, in the meantime, should discuss appropriate, transparent-subsidy options for
serving the poor. Second, with agencies that function in efficient housing markets well-served by the
private sector, like Thailand's: the Bank should encourage privatization of public-sector housing
production. If, in those countries, the public sector is unable or unwilling to compete effectively with
the private sector at the bottom end of the housing market, the Bank should encourage systematic
reform, and perhaps ultimately privatization, of the public agency.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLEION RIORT
THALA
TEIPD SHELTER PROJECT (LOAN 2795-TB)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORIOWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower did nt prepare Part H.



17
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit                             Purpose                        Approved      Completed
L1556-TH:                   To finance a limited-scale demonstration of new
Bangkok                     approaches to housing the poor
Sites and Services                                                               1978           1983
and Slum Upgrading
L I 870-TH:                 To introduce new housing approaches to regional
National                    cities, study housing finance, and strengthen NHA's
Sites and Services          financial position                                   1980           1985



18
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item                                 Actual
Identification                            1981
Preparation                            1981-85
Appraisal                            5/86-6/86
Loan Negotiations                       1/8/87
Board Approval                         4/14/87
Loan Signature                         8/31/87
Loan Effectiveness                     12/8/87
Project Completion                    12/31/91
Loan Closing                          12/31/92



19
Table 3: Loan Disbursements in U.S. $ Millions
Disbursed                Disbursed   Disbursed
Not yet  relative to Projected at  relative to  relative to
Disbursed   Cancelled   disbursed S6.7 million    appraisal S21 million   projected
Jun-87         0.0                    21.0         0%           0.0         0%
Dec-87          0.0                   21.0          0%          0.5         0%           0%
Jun-88         0.3                    20.7         5%           1.0         2%         33%
Dec-88          0.7                   20.3         10%          2.0         3%          35%
Jun-89         1.0                    20.0        15%           3.5         5%         28%
Dec-89          1.4                   19.6         20%          5.5         7%          25%
Jun-90         2.1                    18.9        31%           8.0        10%         26%
Dec-90          2.2                   18.8         33%          10.5        11%         21%
Jun-91         4.5        12.0         4.5        67%          13.0        22%         35%
Dec-91          5.0        12.0        4.0        74%          15.5        24%          32%
Jun-92         5.5        12.0         3.5        81%          18.5        26%         30%
Dec-92          6.5        12.0        2.5         96%         21.0        31%          31%
Jun-93         6.7        14.3         0.0       100%          21.0        32%         32%



20
Table 4: Implementation Timetable
Appraisal plan               Actual                Months late
Contract signing
Ayuthaya                  Apr-89                    Aug-89                     4
Lad Krabang               Mar-88                   May-89                     14
Lampang                    Jan-87                   Jan-89                    24
Nakom Ratchasima          May-87                    Jul-88                    14
Nonthaburi                Apr-87                   cancelled
Partaya                   Apr-87                    Jul-87                     3
Thonburi                  Apr-88                   cancelled
Ubon Ratchathani          Dec-87                    Sep-89                    21
Construction completion
Ayuthaya                  Oct-90                    Aug-91                    10
Lad Krabang               Nov-90                    Dec-91                    13
Lampang                    Jul-88                   Apr-91                    33
Nakom Ratchasima          Dec-88                    Jan-91                    25
Nonthaburi                Dec-89                   cancelled
Pattaya                   Sep-88                    Jul-89                    10
Thonburi                   Sep-91                  cancelled
Ubon Ratchathani           Jun-90                   Aug-91                    14



Cumulative disbursements and cancellations (USS millions)
Jun-87
Dec-87
Jun-88                                      0     i
Dec-88
Jun-89
Dec-89
Jun-90
CA
Dec-90                                                                             IV
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r \
Jun-91
Dec-91
Jun-92
Dec-92
+                                                                 I__ _
Jun-93
IZ



22
Table 5: Project Costs
(S US millions)
Planned at appraisal                            Actual
Local      Foreign      Total            Local       Foreign        Total
financing   financing   financing        financing    financing    financing
Land                                 13.6                     13.6              1.0          0.0          1.0
Infrastructure                        10.0        6.8         16.8              1.7          1.0          2.8
Core housing                         21.2         11.3        32.5             13.2          5.5          18.7
Engineering and management            3.5                     3.5               2.8          0.1          2.9
Technical assistance                  0.1         0.7         0.8
Contingencies                         3.2         2.0         5.2
Total project cost                   51.6        20.8         72.4             18.8          6.5         25.4
Interest during construction          9.1         3.8         12.9              0.5          0.2          0.7
Total financing required             60.7        24.6         85.3             19.3          6.7         26.1
... NHA did not provide data on technical assistance costs
(figures do not add due to rounding)



23
Table 6a: Subproject Indicators
Affordable   Affordable
Unit Cost   Unit Price        under        under
Built Units     Increase     Increase    50th %ile    70th %ile   Occupancy
Nonthaburi               cancelled
Thonburi                 cancelled
Lad Krabang                   581         139%          134%           0%           17%          60%
Pattaya                       426           -3%          24%          71%           88%         100%
Nakorn Ratchasirna            360           12%          47%           70%          89%          95%
Larnpang                      333           15%          49%          23%           71%          60%
Ubon Ratchathani              312           16%          65%            0%          75%          80%
Ayuthaya                      250          34%          157%            0%           0%          70%
Total                        2262          45%           80%           28%          56%          77%
vs.                                     vs.           vs.
Goal                        11000                                     70%           90%



24
Table 6b: Economic and Financial Impact
(Baht)
Economic                                          Financial
Benefit      Cost         B-C                     Benefit       Cost         B-C
1987           0   20,041,480  -20,041,480                       0   24,634,445  -24,634,445
1988    8,361,600   30,333,818  -21,972,218                      0   39,613,947  -39,613,947
1989   17,095,600  100,037,727  -82,942,127              24,298,100   121,220,118  -96,922,018
1990   17,095,600  174,509,376  -157,413,776             32,547,040   198,106,288  -165,559,248
1991   18,713,920  128,880,893  -110,166,973             49,673,627   145,521,919  -95,848,292
1992   29,324,280   31,147,398   -1,823,118              98,451,196   32,492,669   65,958,527
1993   46,570,080   30,441,384   16,128,696             106,661,033    5,028,641   101,632,392
1994   48,576,864   30,654,269   17,922,595             110,072,392    5,418,662  104,653,730
1995   54,710,496   29,983,716   24,726,780             150,033,412    3,970,682  146,062,730
1996   55,884,096   30,092,656   25,791,440              83,533,412    4,114,638   79,418,774
1997   58,292,237   30,193,097   28,099,140              83,533,412    4,252,507   79,280,905
1998   65,652,595   30,362,310   35,290,285              79,291,330    4,401,441   74,889,889
1999   67,060,915   30,483,815   36,577,100              74,690,690    4,561,684   70,129,006
2000   69,950,684   29,484,758   40,465,926              66,689,390    3,604,337   63,085,053
2001   79,414,039   29,590,387   49,823,652              66,689,390    2,649,821   64,039,569
2002   81,104,023   28,392,890   52,711,133              66,689,390    2,755,911   63,933,479
2003   84,571,745   29,809,539   54,762,206              60,782,590    2,876,142   57,906,448
2004   94,539,736   29,990,483   64,549,253              57,479,390    3,055,205   54,424,185
2005   96,567,717   30,184,262   66,383,455              51,900,050    3,252,225   48,647,825
2006  100,728,985   30,336,804   70,392,181              51,900,050    3,407,951   48,492,099
2007  100,741,726   30,499,709   70,242,017              51,900,050    3,573,947   48,326,103
2008   90,913,658   30,671,485   60,242,173              45,087,850    3,752,266   41,335,584
2009   64,992,928   30,847,512   34,145,416              36,307,130    3,940,782   32,366,348
2010   75,071,222   30,136,971   44,934,251              31,073,910    3,228,005   27,845,905
2011   77,991,514   30,325,329   47,666,185              31,073,910    3,416,167   27,657,743
2012   32,712,942   30,527,109    2,185,833              31,073,910    3,626,604   27,447,306
RATE OF RETURN                             5.98%                                             14.69%



25
Table 6c: Studies and Technical Assistance
Component                       Purpose as Defined at           Status                          Impact
Appraisal
Planning and Policy            To improve NHA's                 Financed by                     NHA reaffirmed its
Development                    capability for program           Norwegian granL                 policy to price units at
and subproject                  Conducted by                    market value. Other
planning, to improve            NorconsulL                     issues were
NHA's capability to             Completed in May                subordinated to
coordinate with local           1990.                           discussion about
authorities and utility                                         NHA's mandate.
agencies for sub-                                               Recommended that
project development,                                            NHA focus on low-
and to establish an                                            income housing and
appropriate sales                                               seek renewed
pricing policy.                                                 subsidization from the
central governmenL
Management                      To identify appropriate         Financed by                     Established a plan for
Information System              management                      Norwegian granL                 NHA's upgrading its
information systems             Conducted by                    internal computer
for computerization,            NorconsulL.                     capacity for
and to assist in the            Completed in June               managemenL
implementation of the           1991.                           Developed preliminary
computer system                                                 design for a
including staff                                                 comprehensive
training.                                                       management
informadon system.
Provided computer
training for segments
ofMIS.
Housing and                    To explore lower-cost            Conducted by                    Developed specific
Infrastructure                 alternatives to                  Rotterdarn Institute for        recommendations for
Standards                       infrastructure and              Housing Studies.                cost-effective design
dwelling unit design.           Completed in June               changes for
1989.                          infrastructure.
Implementation of
recommendations was
not determined.
Housing Information            To identify and assess           Financed by                     Selected and
Center                          problems pertaining to          Norwegian granL                 incorporated a set of
quantity, quality, and          Conducted by                    housing databases for
adequacy of national            NorconsulL                     inclusion into the
housing data, and to            Completed in October            Housing Information
develop a                       1990.                           System. Developed a
comprehensive data                                              model of housing
system and                                                      needs and
management/ control                                             affordability.
techniques.



Table 7: Bank Staff Inputs
Pre-
Task                 FY82  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92  FY93  FY94  TOTAL
LEN                            0.8    0.2    0.6    0.4    1.5    5.6                                                                9.1
LENP                    1.2     33     3.6   29.5      13   15.5                                                                    95.8
LENA                                          4.3             6.6    8.6                                                            19.5
LENN                                                                10.1                                                            10.1
Supervision                                                   0.2    1.7    4.5   10.3   12.4   10.5   10.4    5.4                  55.4
PCR                                                                                                                1.4    6.5        7.9
Total/I                 1.2   33.8    3.8   34.4   13.4   23.8        26    4.5   10.3   12.4   10.5   10.4    6.8    6.5          197.8
1/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.
csJ



27
Table 8: Missions
Stage                             Date        Persons      Weeks   Specialty                                              Rating
pre-identification               Apr-81          I            I      planner
identification                   Sep-81          3            3      economist, financial analyst, engineer
preparation I                    Jan-82          3            7      financial analyst, engineer, architect
preparation 2                    Oct-82          2            1      2 engineers
preparation 3                    Feb-83          4            1      2 financial analysts, engineer, economist
pre-appraisal                    Oct-83          4            3      financial analyst, economist, architect
appraisal                        May-86          3            9      financial analyst, engineer, architect/planner
launch                           Mar-87          2            1      engineer, financial analyst
supervision I                    Sep-87          2            1      engineer, financial analyst                             I
supervision 2                    Feb-88          2            1      engineer, financial analyst                             I
supervision 3                    Oct-88          3            2      operations officer, engineer, financial analyst         2
supervision 4                    Mar-89          3            6      operations officer, engineer, computer specialist       2
supervision 5                    Jul-89          2            2      operations officer, computer specialist                 2
supervision 6                    Jan-90          2            4      operations officer, computer specialist                 2
supervision 7                    Jun-90          1            1      operaions officer                                       2
supervision 8                    Nov-90          I            I      operadons officer                                       2
supervision 9                    Feb-91          3            5      operations officer, computer specialist, architectlplann    2
supervision 10                   Aug-91          I            I      operations officer                                      2
supervision 11                   Feb-92          1            1      operations officer                                      2
review of pre-feasibility report    Jun-92       2            2      operations officer                                      2
for land pooling
supervision 12                   Oct-92          1            1      operations officer                                      2
supervision 13                   Jun-93          1            1      operations officer                                      2



Table 9
Page I
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
THAILAND
Third Shelter Project - (Ln. 2795-TH)
Section    Covenant   Status   Original      Revised      Description of Covenant                   Comments
Type                Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
2.03                    OK                                 NHA to obtain a loan from GIIB of Baht   Concluded that NHA was highly liquid and not in
501.8 million                            need of borrowing.
3.03        T           OK                                 Sub-project criteria to be acceptable to the  Criteria on affordability acceptable for sites
Bank.                                    financed. Several large sites not financed due to
lack of affordability. Selection criteria for
ownership of another house deficient.
3.04(a)     T           OK      12/90        6/91          Study: Strengthening NHA planning &      Completed with Norwegian grant funding.
policy functions
N)
3.04(b)     T           OK      12/90        6/91          Study: Expansion of computer facilities and    Completed with Norwegian grant funding.     cs
introduction of Management Information
System.
3.04(c)     T           OK      12/90        6/91          Study: Establishment of a Housing        Completed with Norwegian grant funding.
Information System
3.04(d)     T           OK      12/90        4/89         Study: Development of more cost-efficient    IHS Rotterdam funding. First report April, 1989
housing prototypes and infrastructure    was engineering designs only. No furnher action
standards.                               was taken.



Table 9
Page 2
Section    Covenant   Status   Original      Revised      Description of Covenant                  Comments
Type                Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
3.05        T          OK                                 5-Year Development Plan to be prepared by    11/89  Physical plan for I year only.
December 31 of each year until Closing   01/90  5-year construction costs by site OK
Date (12/92).                                   pending completion by NorConsult of the
computer planning model by 2/91. Model
not completed.
8/91   Received 5-year Development Plan 1992-
96.
12/92  Loan closed.
3.06        F           OK                                5-Year Financial Projection to be prepared  11/89  Sources & application for 1989-93. but
by December 31 annually until the closing       full projection of BS. IS is pending
date.                                           completion of computer planning model by
NorConsult by 2/91. Not completed.
2/90   Two year projection of BS, IS made
manually.
2/91   Not received pending NorConsult
completion model.
12/92  Loan Closed.
3.07        M           OK                                Management Committee to be maintained     Committee abolished by 88 reorganization. Resp
for implementation.                      assigned to Deputy Govemor for Construction.
5.01        F           OK                                Audit due 9 months after end of fiscal year,   Audits were generally late, but satisfactory.
and to include separate opinion of SOE and
project accounts.
5.02        F           OK                                Debt service ratio to be at least 1.5 (Est.
revenues over est. debt service.)



Table 9
Page 3
Section      Covenant    Status    Original          Revised        Description of Covenant                          Comments
Type                    Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date           Date
5.03          F             OK                                       Reduction of arrears on rentals and hire-       Target ultimately met due to improved field office
purchase as % of accounts receivable to:        monitoring, refinancing due to low commercial
rates and rescheduling.
33% at project start                            33%
23 % by 9/87                                    31%
21% by 9/88                                     32%
19% by 9/89                                     25%
17% by 9/90                                     22%
15 % thereafter                                 14%
Covenant Type:            Status:
E - Economic             ACT    Needs fornal remnedies to bring about compliance
F - Financial             NYD    Not yet due
M -Managerial             OK      Covenant complied with
T - Technical             RVS     Needs to be revsed
SOON   Compliance expected In rasonably short tine
0)



