Dommat Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
iK ,2>99- 72arY7
Repore No. P-4371-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANX FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED WOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$21 MILLION
TO THE
NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND FOR A
THIRD SHELTER PROJECT
March 19, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performancc
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1986)
Currency Unit    -         Baht (B)
US$1                       B 26
B 1                       US$0.038
B 1 million      -         US$38,462
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                  -     39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (!2)          -     10.8 square feet (fi2)
1 cubic meter (m )           =     35.3 cubic feet (ft )
1 kilometer (km)             =     0.62 mile (mi)
I hectare (ha)               =     6.25 rai or 10,000 m2
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
GDP    -  Gross Domestic Product
CHB    -  Government Housing Bank
NESDB  -  National Economic and Social Development Board
NHA    -  National Housing Authority
BORROWER AND
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1-September 30



FOR OmCUL USE ONLY
THAILAND
THIRD SHELTER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               National Housing Authority (NRA).
Guarantor:              Kingdom of Thailand.
Loan Amount:            US$21 million.
Loan Terms:             Repayable in 17 years including 4 years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:          The project would increase NHA's reliance on
domesitically mobilized resources, promote lending to
lover-income households, strengthen NRA's management
practices, support housing programs for lower- and
middle-income families, and improve the availability
of housing sector data necessary for housing policy
development.  The project includes support for the
construction of serviced sites and core housing for
about 11,000 lower- and middle-income households in
Bangkok and other cities which meet subproject eligi-
bility criteria and technical assistance for insti-
tutional development of NHA and to establish a data
system within the Government for monitoring housing
sector performance.
Risks:                  Based on NHA's performance in carrying out two pre-
vious Bank-supported projects, the risks to this proj-
ect are expected to be minimal. GEB's involvement in
the mortgage and construction financing of the project
could result in some unforeseen problems, but the use
of joint NBA/CHB beneficiary selection criteria and
GEB's sound financial managv.ent and position should
ensure that the proper customers are selected and that
the required funds are available in a timely manner
for the project. While there is some risk that NRA
would not develop the ability to maintain a steady
program of activities in the near term, technical
assistance provided under the project designed to
strengthen its planning capabilities would be expected
to reduce this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i; -
Estimated Costs:
Local    Forean    Total
- (US- million)    --
Land                        13.6         -        13.6
Infrastructure              10.0        6.8       16.8
Core housing                21.2       11.3       32.5
Engineering and
management                 3.5         -         3.5
Technical assistance         0.1        0.7        0.8
Base Cost                 48.4       18.8      67.2
Physical contingencies        1.6       1.1        2.7
Price contingencies           1.6       0.9        2.5
Total Project Cost /a    51.6        20.8       72.4
Interest during con-
struction                  9.1        3.8       12.9
Total Financing
Required                60.7       24.6      85.3
Financing Plan:
World Bank                   0.2       20.8       21.0
NRA                         41.2        3.8       45.0
GHB                         19.3         -        19.3
Total                   60.7       24.6      85.3
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY        1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
--------- - (US$ million) -----…        -
Annual         1.0    2.5    4.5    5.0    5.0    2.5
Cumulative    1.0    3.5    8.0   13.0   18.0   21.0
Economic Rate
of Return:       15%
/a   Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$7.3 million equivalent.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
FOR & THIRD SHELTER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the National Housing Authority with the guarantee of the Kingdom of
Thailand, for the equivalent of $21.0 million to help finance a Third Shelter
Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Growth with Stability -- A Challenge
for the Sixth Plan Period" (Report No. 6036-TI) was issued on June 5, 1986.
It reviewed medium-term issues of resource mobilization, institutional devel-
opment and employment, as Thailand approached its Sixth Five-Year Development
Plan (October 1986-September 1991).
Past Economic Trends
3.        Thailand's economy grew rapidly over the past two decades and
developed successfully by most standards of international comparison. The 7%
per annum CDP growth combined with a population growth of about 2% per annum
allowed per capita incomes to grow at almost 5% per annum during 1960-80,
among the highest sustained rates for developing countries. The reduction of
poverty was substantial for a country still among the lowest third of middle-
income developing countries. Despite its continuing reliance on agriculture,
Thailand experienced a far-reaching transformation of its economic and social
structure during the past two decades, with high growth in modern industrial
and service sector activities, extension of transport and communications
infrastructure throughout the country, rapid modernization, and a significant
increase in the openness of the economy to trade and capital flows, tourism
and international labor migration.
4.        However, because of its increased openness, its heavy dependence on
imported oil, and an expansionary fiscal stance in the late 1970s, the Thai
economy was substantially affected by the two oil price shocks and by the
ensuing international economic upheaval. A relatively high rate of overall
growth was maintained initially but this was accompanied by accelerating
inflation, large fiscal and external deficits and growing dependence on
foreign borrowing. Consumer price increases averaged almost 15% over 1979-81,
and by 13% in 1981. The Central Government deficit has exceeded 4% of CDP
since 1979. Notwithstanding continued rapid export growth, the current
account deficit amounted to about 7% of GDP from 1979 to 1983; consequently,
there was a rapid increase in Thailand's traditionally low external debt.



-2-
5.        Initially, the Covernment was slow in responding but beginning in
1980, policy adjustments were undertaken, including sharp increases in prices
for most petroleum products, electricity and other public services; measures
to increase government revenues, a substantial increase in real interest
rates, and the changes in regulations to increase financial stability and
monetary restraint. The Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86) made structural
adjustment one of its major priorities. In March 1982, the first SAL for
Thailand was approved, followed by SAL II in March 1983. Under these loans
the Covernment comitted itself to taking steps toward adjustments in the
structure of the economy through reductions in dcmestic price controls, export
taxes and controls over agricultural exports and investment, promoting energy
conservation and efficient development of domestic energy resources, and
improving the Government's tax structure and administration, public investment
planning, and other areas of public administration. Progress was made,
although implementation was at a somewhat slower pace than originally expected
in the area of public resource management and institutional development.
Recent Developments
6.        Macroeconomic developments in Thailand during 1982-86 have been
strongly influenced by a number of external factors including the worldwide
recession and sluggish recovery since, high interest rates until 1985, sharp
declines in commodity prices and increasing protectionism in OECD countries.
The average growth rate of GDP for 1982-84 was around 5Z per annum, and for
1985, only 3.2%. GDP growth is estimated to have increased slightly to 3.4%
in 1986. As a result of weak domestic demand, lower international prices, and
an appreciating exchange rate, domestic inflation dropped from 132 in 1981 to
less than 4% in 1983. Domestic inflation has continued at about 1-2Z since
1984.
7.        Thailand's current account deficit has remaind stubbornly high
throughout the early 1980s reaching a high of 7.2X in 1983, and falling to
5.0% in 1984 and with a slowdown of the economy, to about 4% in 1985. These
persistent and unsustainable deficits have had two primary causes. First,
between 1981 and 1984, Thailand's exports lost competitiveness as the baht
appreciated in relation to the currencies of most of its trading partners. By
mid-1984, it was clear that the real appreciation of the baht which was pegged
to tbe US dollar was undermining the recovery program. In November 1984,
therefore, the baht was devalued by 14.8% and de-linked from the dollar. This
has already had a benefirial impact on manufacturing exports, which rose by
about 13% in real terms in 1985, and in curbing consumer imports. The
devaluation had relatively little impact on inflation. Second, the external
imbalance has been also due to an excessive public sector investment-savings
gap, which averaged abont 5% of GDP since 1980. Reducing this deficit through
taxation and cost recovery measures and through careful expenditure management
is a high priority for the Government.
8.        Performance in 1986 was decidedly mixed, producing a below-
historical-norm GDP growth rate of 3.4%. Agricultural output was sluggish,
and domestic demand which derives from lower household incomes was therefore
weak. Offsetting these factors which led to a decline in gross fixed capital



-3-
formation for the second successive year, was very strong merchandise export
performance, which grew at a 30% per annum rate during the first three-
quarters of 1986, and produced the first, albeit alight, recorded current
account surplus in twenty years. Manufactured exports did particularly
well. Moreover, the oil oil price reduction produced import savings and
helped produce the slight surplus, a welcome development but one which does
not obviate the need for further reduction in the public sector deficit, now
3.5% of CDP. Price stability was maintained. The economy's vulnerability to
world commodity prices for agriculture exports, to protectionism on its newly
emerging manufactured exports, and the inherent sluggishness of domestic
demand. Nonetheless, create uncertainty as to whether the positive develop-
ments of 1986 can be maintained and augmented to reach the 51 growth rate
derived by the Sixth Five Year Plan (1987-1991).
Development Constraints and Prospects
9.        During the 19809, many of the positive factors which contributed to
Thailand's rapid economic growth and reduction in poverty over the preceding
two decades will persist, including the relatively equitabLe distribution of
agricultural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved technology, a
good network of public infrastructure, and a dynamic private sector in
industry, agriculture and services. Substantial reductions in the rate of
population growth between the mid-1960s and late 1970s and discovery of domes-
tic gas and oil supplies are further positive factors which will support the
continued rapid development of Thailand.
10.       Against these favorable factors, however, a number of important con-
straints emerge: (a) the rapid growth of Thailand's public sector over the
last decade, particularly of major state enterprises, without commensurate
growth in public resource mobilization, has posed a serious challenge; (b)
further industrial development, exports and employment growth may similarly be
limited unless the international competitiveness and diversification of Thai
industry are strengthened; and (c) the pace of development will increasingly
be hampered by inefficient metropolitan growth in Bangkok unless steps are
taken to rationalize the city's land use and transport, water drainage and
sanitation systems; Thailand's secondary cities, too, require strengthening of
their infrastructure and administrative capabilities to prepare them for the
expected future growth in urban population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
11.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of September 30, 1986, had received 84 IBKD loans (including
two third-window loans) and 6 IDA credits, totalling (net of cancellations)
$3,442 million in loans and $119 million in credits. As of that date,
$659 million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No IDA
credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex I contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments. Bank loans and IDA
credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to $2,927 million as



-4-
of September 30, 1986 and accounted for 17.6Z of Thailand's total debt
(disbursed and outstanding). The Bank Group's share of Thailand's total debt
service pdyments amounted to 11.7Z in 1985. As of September 30, 1986, IFC had
made 24 commitments totalling $239 million in 16 projects in Thailand. IFC's
investments have been primarily in industry, mining and capital markets.
Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been enhanced by
expanding private sector investment activity and by increased potential for
developing indigenous resources.
12.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in percent-
age, has been as follows: 30Z for energy; 25Z for agriculture and rural
development; 16% for transportation; 8% for telecommunications; 4Z for urban
development; 5% for education; 22 for industry; 1X for population/health/nutri-
tion; and 9% for structuraL adjustment lending. Overall implementation of
Bank projects in Thailard has improved steadily during the past ten years.
Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from 17.7% in 1977 to 28.6% in 1986.
13.       The main objective of Bank Group activities in Thailand is to pro-
mote the country's economic growth and development through structural adjust-
ment and productive investments in the key sectors of the economy. The
economic and sector work program is designed to achieve this objective by
assisting the Government to formulate appropriate economic policies and
programs. Current Bank operations are helping Thailand to improve its public
resource management, enhance the efficiency and competitiveness of productive
sectors, and rationalize the policies and investments for infrastructure
development. The Government has valued the analytical input and technical
assistance provided by the Bank, especially through our economic work and
structural adjustment lending. However, the level of the Bank's future lend-
ing to Thailand is likely to continae to be affected by statutory ceilings on
public foreign borrowing, reductions in public investment programs, and the
country's ready access to foreign commercial and concessional sources of
finance. The Government has also indicated its preference to seek highly
concessional aid or to use its own resources for education, health and popula-
tion related investments. In cofinancing, the Bank's primary concern has been
to identify appropriate sources of concessional funding for technical
assistance associated with Bank operations. In recent years, external
agencies, including the Bank, have supported project lending in some sectors
that have high social benefit but low foreign exchange savings or earnings.
To continue participating in these sectors in Thailand, it is necessary to
finance some local currency expenditures in selected projects with low foreign
exchange component. The above factors are being taken into account in
determining the level and composition of the Bank's operations program in the
following areas.
14.       Energy.  The sector's needs and investment programs are likely to
remain relatively large, and a number of planning and pricing policy issues
continue to deserve Government and Bank attention. In the past, the Bank has
helped finance projects for power generation and distribution, for lignite
mining, and for the development and processing of hydrocarbon resources. Bank
assistance through these projects has served to strengthen the institutions
involved in the sector. Policy analyses and dialogue through CESW and SALs



- 5 -
and, more recently, ESMAP technical assistance have addressed issues in energy
management, planning and the incentive structure. The Bank's future
assistance through energy and power projects combined with a CESW program
involving sector work and public investment programming would help ensure
substantial Bank impact on policies and assist the Government to meet it.
resource requirements for the relatively large investments planned in the
sector.
15.       Agriculture/Rural Development.  The importance of the agriculture
sector to the economy, and the potential for intensive farming and crop diver-
sification, suggest that it should normally continue to be a major focus of
Bank operations. Past Bank assistance through projects has emphasized devel-
opment of the irrigation infrastructure, uplifting of backward areas, improve-
ments in land tenure, programs for rubber replanting, and strengthening of the
delivery systems for extension, research and credit. A number of policy
reforms in the areas of institutional coordination, poverty alleviation, land
reclassification, and reduced export taxation have been implemented with sup-
port from the Bank's CESW program, SALs and project loans. Future operations
are expected to continue these efforts, but increased attention will be given
to agricultural diversification and maintenance of existing infrastructure.
16.       Urban and Water Supply.  The Government intends to devote increasing
attention to the continued expansion and pressures of urban areas in the
country, especially Bangkok. Urban and water supply sectors provide consider-
able investment opportunities, but they also involve institutional and cost
sharing issues. The recently completed Bangkok Metropolitan Regional Study as
well as the preparatory work for urban projects financed by the Bank are pro-
viding a good basis for assistance in this sector. Future Bank assistance,
including the proposed project, will help provide essential urban infra-
structure and shelter for lower-income families in Bangkok and in regional
cities.
17.       Transport.  Thailand's transport sector, dominated by road transpor-
tation, is generally well developed. The Bank has contributed to developing
transport infrastructure through project lending for roads, railways, inland
waterways and ports. Future Bank role would place greater emphasis on
improving productivity and efficiency of existing infrastructure as well as on
issues in institutional development, investment planning, and state enterprise
finances.
PART III - THE HOUSING SECTOR
Background
18.       Although Thailand's overall level of urbanization is low, its
urban population during 1970-B5 increased at about twice the national rate of
growth, or by an estimated annual rate of 5.0% compared to about 2.5% for the
total population. In 1985 the urban population reached 9.2 million or 18% of
a total population of 51.8 million. Urban population growth is projected to



-6-
continue at a high rate for some timep and by the year 2000 the urban popula-
tion is expected to reach 14.1 million people, representing 222 of the total
population. The Bangkok Metropolitan Region dominates all other urban areas
of the country with its population of 6.7 million in 1985. Of the estimated
70,000 new urban households expected to be formed in Thailand annually until
1990, the majority or about 50,000 householde per year will be established in
the Bangkok area. Given Thailand's projected CDP growth rate of about 5% per
year in reaL ternts over the period 1986-90, implying growing household
incomes, the demand for urban housing, particularly in Bangkok, is expected to
remain strong.
Present Housing Conditions and Recent Performance
19.       Between 1980 and 1985, 217,300 legal housing units were built in
urban areas nationwide, averaging an annual output of 43,500 units. Since the
number of urban households increased by about 65,000 per year during that
period, this has created a housing shortage, estimated by Covernment at about
135,000 units in 1985. The housing shortage has particularly affected the
lower-income groups and has contributed to the growth of slums in urban
areas. Although no accurate statistics are available, it is estimated that
about 201 of the total population of Bangkok and comparable or larger propor-
tions of the urban populations of major regional cities are living in slum
areas. In Bangkok, about 50% of the slum population had incomes below the
absolute urban poverty line of US$245 per capita in 1981; this is not thought
to have improved much since then. The physical environmental conditions of
the slum areas often consist of swampy, unfilled lands without proper access,
drainage, water supply or other urban facilities.
20.       One of the major constraints to expanding the supply of housing in
Thailand has been the scarcity of long-term finance that permits homebuyers
and builders to repay the cost of a house over a period of 10 to 20 years. It
is estimated that only one in 100 households in the country has access to for-
mal sources of housing finance, with the average borrower coming from the top
20% of all income eat-nors and with 80% of all borrowers located in Bangkok.
Most of the families with access to housing finance have purchased homes in
large housing projects constructed by private developers who guarantee repay-
ments to the lending institutions. Very little housing finance from formal
financial institutions has been made available to individuals and none to the
public housing sector's Lower-income clientele. As a resultp the National
Rousing Authority (NHA), which handles public housing, has had to provide its
own housing finance to ensure the saleability of units constructed. Housing
standards, particularly for low-income families, are lower than what would be
affordable with long-term financing, since houses must be cash-financed and
often built in increments over long periods of time.
21.       A second major factor affecting the supply of housing has been the
lack of available serviced-land, particularly in Bangkok. Most of the vacant
land in Bangkok with access to services and infrastructure is held by land
owners who keep the land idle in anticipation of generating higher returns in
the future. In addition, developments on the periphery of the city have
contributed to the disappearance of lands which were rented temporarily to
low-income people. Consequently, land supply patterns are worsening,



- 7 -
particularly for lower-incom families, and a large proportion of the low-
income population has had to settle en land without adequate urban services
and facilities and usually without secure tenure rights.
Development of Housing for the Lower-income Groups
22.       The development of new housing for the lower-income groups in urban
areas is the excLusive responeibllity of NHA, which providea housing both on
its own account and for other public agencies. From 1973, the time of NMA's
establishment, to 1985 it constructed about 84,000 new housing units, repre-
senting about 18X of the 457,000 legal units constructed in total over the
period, and upgraded slums which affected about 35,000 units.
23.       In its early years, NHA's program emphasized construction oE conven-
tionaL apartments and detached and semidetachad units which were heavily sub-
sidized for both development costs and interest rates. Because of the subsi-
dies necessary to sustain the program, the Covernment suspended approval of
new projects in December 1977 and asked NHA to prepare alternative programs
requiring lower subsidies. Based on the first Bank-supported project for the
sector, NHA shifted its programs to lower-cost approaches of sites and ser-
vices developments with full cost recovery and slum improvement schmes as
alternatives co conventional, higher-cost approaches and slum clearance
projects. These new lower-income housing approaches became the mandate for
NHA's program under the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86) and are expected to
continue under the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1987-91).
Housing Finance
24.       Housing finance is available primarily to upper-income clients
through the Covernment Housing Bank (CHB), commercial banks, and to a lesser
extent through finance companies. NRA is also an effective supplier of
housing finance for its own projects. By the end of 1980, NRA had more
clients than any other housing finance institution, but because the average
loan provided to each household was relatively low due to the borrowers' lower
incomes, NHA ranked third in terms of total housing finance provided.
25.       Informal financing sources, such as loans from friends, relatives
and employers, provide about an equal amount of housing finance as the formal
institutions. The average size of a loan from the informal system is estima-
ted to be half as large as one from the formal system, and only one borrower
in three is estimated to finance the acquisition or improvement of a home from
the formal sector.
Housing Policy
26.       Until 1983 Covernment had no articulated policy for the housing
sector. As a result of the recommendations of a housing finance study commis-
sioned under the second Bank-supported housing project (Ln. 1870-TH), a
permanent Housing Development Policy Subcommittee, composed of members of the
key ministries and institutions in the sector, was established as an advisor
to the National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) to develop a
policy for the housing sector. The work of this Subcommittee culminated in



the issuance of the Covernment'. first formal Housing Development Policy in
October 1983.
27.       The policy *ra--ment ha. two key *lementst  first, a redefinition of
the institutional respoasibilities in the public sector; and second, a general
statement of the financial policioe LO be pursued in public mactor housing
programs. The policy statament reaffirms NHA's role in providing housing to
the lower-income groups and its movement away from subuidised high-cost hous-
ing. Covernment Rubsidies to NHA are to be restricted to supporting its
involvement in alum upgrading In the near term, with local governmentu eXpec-
ted to assume increasing responsibility for rha implementation and financing
of these projects. NHA is also expected to progressively eliminate its long-
term financing of low-income unit", a task for which it is not well-suited and
which io rapidly becoming a burden, and to transfer that role to CHB. CHB is
thus expected to become the leading financial inBtitution providing long-term
funds for housing development sponsored by both NHA and the private sector.
This would entail an expansion of CHB's activities, which have been focused on
upper-income groups living in Bangkok, to include the lower-income groups
served by NHA throughout the country.
28.       The financial policies for the housing sector stress the importance
of designing projects within the residents' ability to pay so that full costs
can be recovered. Interest rates for on-lending and deposits by CPS, and for
on-le.xuing by NHA until its financing activities are phased out, are to be set
according to market conditions in order to facilitate mobilization of funds
and expansion of activities.
29.       The Housing Development Policy represents an important first step in
establishing a sound basis for the growth of NHA and CHB. Measures proposed
by the policy for future implementation have been discussed by the Government
and the Bank as part of their dialogue on development of the housing sector
and Bank support for the sector. A number of effective measures designed to
stimulaLe housing development and its financing have recently been introduced,
and other studies are currently planned to identify further measures to
improve performance in the sector. Although the policies established to date
are appropriate, the translation of the policy for lower-income housing
development by NHA into effective programs has not materiaLized partly due to
NBA's weak planning capabilities (pars. 31).
Bank Strategy in the Sector, Past Experience and Project Rationale
30.       Since lending to Thailand for housing activities commenced in 1978,
the Bank's assistance has been geared to helping the Government plan and
implement a clearly defined housing policy which addresses the needs of the
lower-income groups. The first project, the Bangkok Sites and Services and
Slum Upgrading Project (Loan 1556-TH, 1978), partly financed a limited-scale
demonstration of new approaches to housing, which helped NHA move away from
relatively expensive, heavilv subsidized housing developments toward repli-
cable, low-cost schemes and slum improvement projects for the lower-income
groups. Technical assistance provided under the project also helped to iden-
tify and begin to address key management and financial issues in the sector.
A project completion report concluded that most project objectives were met,



- 9 -
but that design problems hampered achievement of the affordability objectives.
Theme design problems were corrected in the follow-on project, the National
Sites and Services Project (Loan 1870-TB, 1980), which introduced the new
housing approaches to regional cities, supported a study of housing finance
and the financing problems constraining sectoral performance, and assisted in
strengthening WA's financial position, thus contributing to its institutional
development. The project was implemented satisfactorily.
31.       While much has been accomplished as a result of the past projects,
including issuance of the housing policy statement, implementation of public
housing programs still suffers from a number of constraints including NHA's
lack of an adequate planning capability, bureaucratic procedures which delay
approval of plans, and a lack of long-term financing. Bank objectives for the
sector would focus on removal of constraints affecting implementation of
public housing programs, support for the development of a housing finance
system, strengthening the key public institutions in the sector, and further
development of the housing policy to clarify public and private sector roles
in housing development.
32.       The proposed project would complement the two previous projects by
reinforcing and expanding the past institutional development of NHA in the
areas of planning, management and finance. Rather than focusing on the de-
tails of specific subproject plans and designs, this project emphasizes imple-
mentation of sound guidelines, principles and criteria to prepare, approve and
implement  -.sing development projects.  As such, it would serve as a vehicle
for furthering the sectoral dialogue with the Government on efficiency
objectives and improved output for the sector. The Bank's involvement in the
project has been particularly important in initiating GHB participation in
finaacing long-term mortgages for housing constructed by NBA. This would
support the Government's objective of expanding housing finance availability
to the lower-income groups to improve their housing conditions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
33.       The project was identified in 1981 in the context of NHA's proposal
for the Fifth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development Plan
(1982-86). However, due to a general slowdown of investment activity in
Thailand during the Fifth Plan period and the country's recent economic and
budgetary difficulties, the earlier NHA program had to be modified and its
implementation postponed until the Sixtf Five-Year Plan (1987-91). The
project was prepared by NHA staff. It was appraised in May/June 1986 and
negotiations were held in Washington in January 1987. The Government and NBA
delegations were led by Dr. Aran Thammano, Director General, Fiscal Policy
Office, Ministry of Finance and Dr. Suchest Sithichaikasem, Governor, National
Housing Authority. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6362-TH) is being
distributed separately. Supplementary project date are given in Annex It.



- 10 -
Objectives and Description
34.       The project is designed to support the Goverment's housing policy
and would have the following objectives: (a) to increase Uh's reliance on
domestically mobilized resources through the establishment of a functional
relationship between NlA and GHB which would finance a part of MiA's new
housing construction and housing finance program; (b) to promote CHB's lending
to lower-income households to support its mandate of playing a leading role in
housing finance; (c) to strengthen NHA's management practices, planning capa-
bilities and policy development functions; (d) to support NHA's core housing
development program for lower- and middle-income families and to promote sound
cost recovery and project evaluation policies; and (e) to improve the availa-
bility of housing sector data necessary for proper housing policy development.
35.       The project would finance:
(a) construction of about 11,000 core housing units and serviced plots,
including supporting infrastructure and community facilities, of
which about 85% would be located in about six sites in the Bangkok
area and the rest in six other cities; and
(b)  technical assistance to (i) strengthen NMA's planning and policy
development functions; (ii) expand computer facilities and enhance
computer use in data processing within NMA, including development of
an efficient management information system; (iii) assist NHA in
developing more cost-efficient housing prototypes and infrastructure
standards; and (iv) contribute to the establishment of a Housing
Information Center to be attached to NESDB's Housing Policy
Subcommittee.
36.       Subproject Eligibility Criteria.  Subprojects eligible for financing
under the project would comply with site and design parameters as well as
financial and economic criteria which would ensure, among other things, the
adequacy of demand for lower-income housing in the subproject area, main-
tenance of completed facilities and infrastructure by the responsible local
authorities, the affordability of project housing by lower-income groups, the
proper selection of home buyers for project housing, the recovery of full
development and recurrent costs and overheads, and an economic rate of return
on subprojects of at least 12%. Agreement was reached with NBA that all
subprojects proposed for Bank financing would meet these criteria.
Status of Preparation
37.       Land has been acquired for eight sites accommodating about 70% of
the housing units to be supported under the project. Of the remaining three
sites, acquisition of one is in progress and the two remaining sites are being
identified. Feasibility studies for four subprojects, representing 28Z of the
units to be constructed under the project, have been reviewed and found to
comply with the eligibility criteria. Bidding documents for the four
subprojects would be ready for invitation of bids between January and April
1987 and contracts should be awarded between February and May 1987. Design
and bidding documents for the remaining sites would continue to be prepared by



- 13 -
NBA engineering staff. Since engineering designs for a site can only be
initiated after the land for that site is fully acquired, agreement was
reached that NUA would proceed with the remaining land acquisition and would
allocate adequate staff to prepare the required studies, designs and bidding
documents.
Executing Agency
38.       NHA would be the executing agency for the project.  NHA is a state
enterprise responsible to a Cabinet-appointed Board of Directors under the
Ministry of Interior and managed by a Governor appointed by the Board. Its
staff now number about 2,200. USA has attracted generally well-qualified
technical staff but needs further strengthening at the middle management
level.
39.       Past Program Performance.  Prior to the redirectioa of NHA's program
in December 1977 to lower-income sites and services type housing (para. 23),
NBA's program for the 1976-81 period consisted of constructing 120,000 comple-
ted housing units for sale or rental at highly subsidized rates. In December
1977, this program was reduced to 48,000 units, partly because of NHA's imple-
mentation capacity constraints and partly in response to the policy shift.
Some 22,000 sites and services and 30,500 slum upgrading units were added to
the plan as well as about 5,600 less-subsidized rental units. Implementation
of the overall plan was satisfactory at 85% of planned construction, although
completion of some of the projects continued somewhat beyond 1981 primarily
due to land acquisitioa problems. In this period, NRA developed significant
capacity in pLanning and implementation of sites and services and slum
upgrading programs.
40.       The new program directions were continued for the following five-
year period (1982-86) during which time NRA's plan called for the construction
of 30,000 sites and services and 18,000 slum upgrading units. Construction of
subsidized, completed units was entirely eliminated. However, various factors
intervened to halt NRA's progress, with actual accomplishments falling to a
mere 18% of the plan. Government approval of NRA's 1982-86 plan was not
obtained until 1984 because of a general reduction of foreign borrowings by
the Government on which NHA had largely counted, uncertainty about whether NHA
or local governments should be responsible for slum upgrading, and deficien-
cies in the plan itself which did not demonstrate how NUA would meet
Government's goal of greater self-reliance. Consequently, NUA faced serious
underemployment problems which would have been even more serious were it not
for carry-over works from the previous plan. NUA's planning and management
capacity is to be strengthened under the proposed project.
41.       Development Program 1987-91.  NHA's housing development program for
the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1987-91), now being prepared, is expected to include
the construction of 44,500 housing units, including some 27,500 units approved
but not implemented under the 1984-86 plan. Funding responsibility for slum
upgrading would be transferred to the local governments. NUA's projected
resource requirements for investment and land purchase to implement the
proposed program would total US$264 million. The proposed Bank loan and the
ongoing ADB-financed project would support the construction of about 37Z of



- 12 -
planned units (16,580 units) or about 22% of total resource requirements, and
CHB would provide loans for about 7% of total requirements. For the balance
of the program, the sources of funds would be dependent upon the outcome of
NSA's involvement with GHB under the proposed project. If the relationship
with CHB proves successful, it is expected that NHA would be abLe to supple-
ment its internal cash generation with short-term construction and long-term
mortgage loans from GHB for developments in Bangkok and, if CHB's network
expands to other cities, for developments outside Bangkok. Agreement war
reached that NHA's development program for 1987-91 and actual achievement
under the program would be reviewed with the Bank by end-December of each
project year and measures taken, if needed, to ensure successful
implementation of the program.
42.       Past Financial Performance.  NHA's financial position is positive,
and has improved significantly since 1952. Until that time, NMA persistently
ran operating deficits, its internal management controls were inadequate and
it relied heas;ly on government subsidies and foreign sources of funds.
Measures to improve its financial operations were identified with assistance
under the first Bank-supported project, and have been gradually introduced.
However, collection performance continues to be less than satisfactory, with
arrears of about B 185 million (US$7 miLlion), or about 25% of accounts
receivable during 1985 on hire-purchase and rental properties. WhiLe 75% of
current arrears are due from only 141 of its customers on three large housing
estates, NHA is concerned about the problem and remedial measures are
planned. Responsibility for collection and follow-up, now handled by two
different NHA departments and somewhat uncoordinated, would be centralized in
one department and services of additional qualified persons would be retained
to assist in follow-up actions. These changes are expected to reduce arrears
to 23Z in 1987, 211 in 1988, 19% in 1989, 17Z in 1990 and 15% thereafter.
Agreement was reached with NfA that the above actions would be carried out in
a timely manner and arrears reduced accordingly.
43.       Future Financial Performance.  Projections for 1987-91 indicate that
NHA's financial position will continue to remain sound over the period. To
monitor financial performance, agreement was reached that NHA would prepare a
report by end-December of each project year containing five-year financial
projections, beginning in FY87, for review by the Bank. Also, to protect
NHA's financidl condition, agreement was reached that NHA would maintain a
debt service ratio of at least 1.5.
Project Implementation
44.       The project would be implemented over five years from January 1987
to December 1991. NHA created a Project Management Committee in November 1986
to be responsible for timely implementation of NHA's various projects. The
Project Management Committee is headed by the Governor and comprises the
relevant senior managers of NUA including the directors of the departments
involved in project implementation. The Project Management Committee oversees
the project teams, composed of architects, engineers, accountants, administra-
tors and marketing specialists, which are formed to prepare, implement and
market the subprojects. Each project team is headed by a Project Manager who
reports to the Project Management Committee through a Project Director and his



- 13 -
Assistant, who are members of the Coumittee. The Bank-financed subprojects,
together with other externally-supported projects, would be implemented by
four project teams reporting to two Assistant Project Directors and a Project
Director who is at the level of Assistant Governor. Agreement was reached
that these project management arrangements would be maintained during the
project period.
Project Costs
45.       The total project cost is estimated at about US$72.4 million equiva-
lent, of which US$20.8 million equivalent or about 29% is foreign exchange and
about US$7.3 million represents taxes and duties. Project costs are estimated
for core houses on the basis of average unit costs for NRA's standard house
types as received in recent bids, and for infrastructure on the basis of pre-
liminary designs for four project sites. The land cost is the actual purchase
price or bid price for land proposed to be acquired. The consultant services
to be provided by individuaL specialists are estimated to require about 78
man-months in total, consisting of 50 man-months of foreign and 28 man-months
of local consultants. NHA's engineering and management costs are estimated at
7% of civil works. Because of the repetitive and standard character of works,
physical contingencies are estimated at 5% of base costs (excluding the cost
of land). Price contingencies for both local and foreign costs are based on
expected increases in construction costs of 3% in 1987, 1% p.a. in 1988-90 and
3.5% p.a. thereafter. In total, physicaL contingencies are estimated at about
4% of base cost and price contingencies are estimated at 4% of base cost plus
physical contingencies.
Financing
46.       The proposed Bank loan of US$21 million equivalent would finance
about 29% of total project cost (equivalent to 321 of total project cost net
of taxes and duties), which would cover foreign exchange costs of the project.
The remaining 71% of total project cost would be financed by NRA from internal
cash generation, 44% and by NHA borrowings in the form of bonds underwritten
by CHB, 27%. NHA intends to identify suitable grant financing for the techni-
cal assistance component and, if successful, NHA's share of financing would be
reduced accordingly. Interest during construction of US$13 million equivalent
would be financed from NHA's internally generated funds. The technical
assistance component would be implemented according to terms of reference and
a schedule acceptable to the Bank.
47.       The Bank loan would be made to NHA, guaranteed by the Kingdom of
Thailand, for a period of 17 years, including four years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. NUA would bear the full cost of the loan,
including the foreign exchange risk and commitment fees. The NEA bonds are
expected to be underwritten by CHB, guaranteed by the Kingdom of Thailand, for
a period of about ten years, with the principal repayable at maturity, at the
prevailing market interest rate, currently about 12Z. GHB would also provide
about B 320 million of mortgage loans (representing about 70% of the total
estimated sales prices of the housing units) at market terms to Nil's custom-
ers at the Nonthaburi site in Bangkok. About 2,000 long-term mortgages would
be offered. CUB's current staff and appraisal techniques are judged adequate



- 14 -
to provide the long-term mortgage loans required under the project. Its
financial position is sound and it is expected to have sufficient funds avail-
able for project mortgages as well as construction loans.
48.       Terms of Loans to Beneficiaries.  Housing loans to individual bene-
ficiaries would be made at CHD's prevail-ing terms for low-cost residential
developments, which are currently up to 20 years at an interest rate of 15%.
GHB han a policy of maintaining interest rates which reflect market condi-
tions. Compared with the current inflation rate of about 2Z, this rate is
significantly positive. The rates in the past have been consistently positive
in real terms and are expected to remain so in the future.
Procurement
49.       Project procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /I
(US$ million)
Procurement method                   Total
Project element               ICB        LCB       Other      N/A      value
Civil works                  43.9        8.0                  3.8 /b   55.7
(17.7)      (3.3)                  (0)    (21.0)
Land acquisition and
contracts with elec-
tricity authorities          -          -        15.8        -       15.8
(0)                (0)
Technical assistance
including computer
equipment                               -           -       0.9       0.9
(0)      (0)
Total                        43.9        8.0        15.8      4.7      72.4
(17.7)      (3T3)       73)      -I)    (21.0)
/a   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
7T   NRA's engineering and sales management costs.
The 5 major works contracts for sites in Bangkok (US$43.9 million) would be
divided into 3 to 5 lots, each lot consisting of 400-500 core houses. These
would be grouped as practicable and procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB), in accordance with Bank guidelines; bids for separate lots
would also be acceptable. On the basis of past experience, it is expected
that local firms would win most of these. The remaining civil works (US$8.0
million), located on scattered sites throughout the country, would be carried
out under six contracts worth US$1.1-1.7 million each. These are unlikely to
be of interest to foreign bidders and would be procured through local



- 15 -
competitive bidding (LCB), which is satisfactory to the Bank. The civil works
contracts would include construction of core houses as well as infrastructure
within the contract limits except for the electricity networks (US$2.2 mil-
lion) on each project site which would be negotiated with the appropriate
electricity authority. The engineering and supervision of construction as
well as sale administration would be done by NHA staff. Advanced contracting
for about US$4 million based on procedures satisfactory to the Bank would be
permitted to expedite project implementation of two housing contracts.
50.       All bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost US$2.0 mil-
lion equivalent and over would be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation. This would cover about 85% of the total estimated
value of civil works contracts. The balance of civil works contracts would be
subject to post-review by the Bank after contract award.
Disbursement
51.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed at 40Z of total
expenditares for civil works. All disbursements would be made against
standard Bank documentation. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
end-December 1992, about one year after completion of civil works. A dis-
bursement period of six years is expected, the same as for the second Bank-
assisted project which was similar in character to the proposed project.
Accounts and Audits
52.       NHA has prepared unaudited project accounts and financial statements
for the two previous Bank-supported projects in a timely manner, but audited
accounts have been received about two years after the end of the fiscal
year. This delay was largely due to slow preparation of final accounts and
the need to resolve discrepancies in the accounts receivable. An accounting
firm engaged by NRA has brought accounts receivable up to date through
end-1983, and a new computerized accounting system has been introduced in
NHA. With these improvements and further training of accounting staff in
computer usage under the proposed project, future financial accounts are
expected to be produced in a timely manner. Agreement was reached that the
overdue FY85 audit report would be submitted by end-June 1987. Agreement was
also reached that beginning in FY86 the project accounts as well as the
financial statements, including a source and application of funds statement,
would be audited on a consistent basis by an independent auditor acceptable to
the Bank, with the audit reports submitted to the Bank by June 30 of the
following caLendar year. It is expected that, as part of the audit of the
project accounts, the auditor would provide a coment on compliance with
financial covenants under the Bank loan.
Monitoring and Reporting
53.       Project monitoring would focus on review and approval of feasibility
reports prepared by NRA for individual subprojects which meet the eligibility
criteria. The review is intended to ascertain that all analyses have been
properly performed, that expected beneficiaries are within the target group
and that economic rates of return are acceptable. Six to eight subproject



- 16 -
feasibility reports for new housing developments would be reviewed over the
next two years. In addition, to ensure that project objectives are achieved,
NHA would submit semi-annual progress reports for Bank review assessing con-
struction performance, performance of key indicators, compliance with loan
covenants and progress of technical assistance. NHA would also prepare an
evaluation of the impact of the GHB mortgage financing scheme in a timely
manner to identify problems in the coordination effort and to evaluate how
well the income objectives of the project have been met. A project completion
report would be prepared by NHA within six months of the loan closing date.
Environmental Impact
54.       Planning and implementation of NHA housing programs are carried out
to minimize negative physical effects on the environment. Provision of health
services by each municipality and potable water, which wouLd be supported
under the project, would prevent the occurrence of endemic diseases. Collec-
tion and disposal of solid wastes would be incorporated within the existing
system in each municipality. Since no central sewerage systems exist in
project locations, liquid wastes would be treated in accordance with existing
practices in Thailand in individual septic tanks, each complemented by a fil-
ter to remove suspended solids. Desliudging of tanks would be done by munici-
palities which have adequate capacity for such tasks. Overflows from filters
would be collected by combined sewerage and drainage systems and discharged in
the nearest body of water. The National Environmental Board reviews the
suitability of such arrangements for proper environmental control.
Benefits, Justification and Urban Poverty Impact
55.       The proposed project would help to address the housing shortage for
lower-income families in project cities, strengthen public institutions in the
housing sector, and contribute to development of appropriate housing poli-
cies. Approximately 9,100 units in Bangkok and 1,900 units in other cities
along with supporting services will be provided under the project. The com-
mercial areas provided in the housing developments would provide accessible
employment opportunities for primary wage earners and their dependents.
Technical assistance would support the strengthening of NBA's management
practices, planning capabilities and policy development functions and would
improve the availability of housing sector data necessary for proper policy
development. In addition, construction under the project would generate
employment opportunities for workers in construction-related activities.
56.       Quantitative evaluation of the benefits of the project's construc-
tion component is based on the estimated rental values of dwellings to be
constructed under the project and estimated market values of community facili-
ties and market areas at the various sites. The weighted average internal
economic rate of return (IEaR) for the four subprojects already reviewed,
which account for 27% of the total project cost, was 15%. Sensitivity
analyses show that with a 10% increase in costs or a 10% decrease in benefits,
the IERRs of all four subprojects would still be above the opportunity cost of
capital in Thailand currently estimated at 12%. The IERRs for the remaining
subprojects are expected to be similar.



- 17 -
57.       Only about 5% of the urban households in Bangkok but about 28% of
households in other cities are estimated to have incomes below the relative
urban poverty line, currently estimated at about US$360 per capita per year.
Based on these figures, the overall urban poverty content of the project is
31. Of the new housing developments provided under the project, two of the
five housing options are affordable by the urban poor in cities outside of
Bangkok. Furthermore, the provision of new housing would also benefit poorer
households by freeing up rental accommodations where most of the prospective
home purchasers currently Live. Although only about 3% of project beneficia-
ries live in extreme poverty, about 70% or 38,500 persons of the 55,000
persons benefitting from the project would be in the lower half of the urban
income distribution.
Project Risks
58.       Since NHA has demonstrated its ability to carry out two previous
Bank-supported projects in a satisfactory manner, the risks associated with
executing this third Bank-supported project are expected to be minimal.
Delays due to land acquisition, the major source of delay in the second proj-
ect, would be averted since the majority of land parcels are already fully
acquired and approval for purchase of the remainder has been obtained from
NHA's Board.  The involvement of GHB in financing project mortgages and con-
struction could result in some unforeseen problems, but the arrangement of
joint NHA/GHB beneficiary selection criteria and CHB's sound financial manage-
ment and position should ensure that the proper customers are selected and
that the required funds are available in a timely manner for the project.
Success in the housing sector in reaching the lower-income groups will depend
on NHA's ability to develop sustainable programs over time and domestic
financing sources. While there is some risk that NHA would not develop the
ability to maintain a steady program of activities in the near term, technical
assistance provided under the project designed to strengthen its planning
capabilities would be expected to reduce this risk. Monitoring NHA's
performance in this area would be a focus of Bank supervision.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I am satisfied that :he proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
March 19, 1987
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-18-                                       rage I of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF RANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IA
(As ot September 3U, 198b)
Amount ($ million)
Loan or                                                                  less cancellations
credit                                                                                   Und1s-
number   Year             Borrower                 Purpose             Bank       IDA    bursed
Sixty loans and five credits fully disbursed                         2,022.46   93.50
929      1979  Kingdom of Thailand       Agriculture                     -      25.00       6.68
1752     1979  Kingdom of Thailand        Agriculture extension         40.00      -         8.34
1787     2980  Kingdom of Thailand        Irrigation                    80.00      -        39.13
1852     1980  Electricity Generating  Power                            72.00      -         2.02
Authority of Thailand
1863     1980  Provincial Waterworks   Water Supply                     40.00      -        17.12
Authority
1871     1980  Provincial Electricity  Rural electrification            75.00      -         3.81
Authority
1889     1980  Kingdom of Thailand        Inland waterways              53.00      -        28.67
1918     1980  Kingdom of Thailand        Ports                         47.00      -        9.52
1922     1980  Kingdom of Thailand        Agriculture research          30.00      -       19.92
2000     1981  Electricity Generating  Power                           100.00      -       27.75
Authority of Thailand
2022      1981  Kingdom of Thailand       Irrigation                    57.00      -        38.83
2035     1981  Kingdom of Thailand        Provincial roads              29.50      -         2.49
2078      1982  Kingdom of Thailand       Tree crops                   142.00      -         2.56
2143      1982  Telephone Organization  Telecommunications             125.10      -        23.31
of Thailand
2178      1982  Kingdom of Thailand       Education                     45.20      -        18.49
2198     1982  Kingdom of Thailand        Agrictulture                  17.00      -        14.60
2311      1983  Kingdom of Thailand       Provincial roads             100.00      -        58.42
2312      1983  Provincial Electricity  Rural electrification           30.60      -        17.51
Authority
2402      1984  Kingdom of Thailand       Rural development             50.00      -        36.69
2407      1984  Electricity Generating  Mining                          59.10      -        58.78
Authority of Thailand
2440      1984  Kingdom of Thailand       Agriculture                   35.00      -        32.21
2520      1985  Kingdom of Thailand       Urban development             27.50      -       27.50
2548      1985  Bangchak Petroleum Co.  Refinery                        85.D0      -       84.70
2639     1986  Petroleum Authority        Energy                        20.00      -        20.00
Thailand
2691      1986  Kingdom of Thailand       Agriculture                   60.00      -       60.00
Total                                                    3,442.46  118.50    659.05
Tfwhich has been repaid                                  511flW  -t1ir
Total Now Outstanding                                    2,927.38  117.46
Less:  Amount sold lb                                      120.11    3.10
Total Now Held by Bank and IDA                           2,807.27  114.36
Total Undisbursed                                          652.37    6.68    659.05
Ia The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
lb Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



-19-                                         ANNEX I
Fage z of 2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(AS of September 3U, 195r)
Amounts ($ million)
Year     Company                         Type of business                 Loan  Equity  Total
1959     Concrete Products and           Cement and construction           0.3      -      0.3
Aggregate Co., Ltd.            materials
1964/1971   Industrial Finance Corpora-  Development finance                   -      0.4      0.4
tion of Thailand (IFCT)        company
1969/1976/  Siam Cement Group               Cement and construction          28.3    4.4    32.7
1978/1980/                                    materials
1985
1977     Mutual Fund Company Ltd.        Money and capital market           -      0.3     0.3
1977     United Sugar Terminal Ltd.   Food and food processing             2.5    0.2      2.7
1978     Siam Commercial Bank            Small- and medium-scale           2.0      -      2.0
industries
1979/19801  Bangkok Glass Industry Co.   Glass containers                     9.9    0.4    10.3
1983       Ltd.
1979/1981/  Siam City Cement Co. Ltd.    Cement and construction            117.0    5.6   122.6
1985                                       materials
1979     Thai Orient Leasing Co.         Capital nmarket                    -     0.1      0.1
Ltd.
1983     Sea Minerals Limited            Mining                             -     0.6      0.6
1983     National Petrochemical          Chemicals & petrochemicals         -     0.5      0.5
Corporation
1983     Thailand Tantalum               Mining                           53.5    3.4    56.9
1984     World Aquaculture               Food and food processing          3.5    0.6      4.1
1984     Southeast Asia Venture          Money & capital market             -     1.0      1.0
Investment (Seavi)
1986     Masbhumi Limited                Mining                             -     /a       /a
1986     Phya Thai II                    Health care                       4.2    0.8      5.0
Total Gross Commitments                                      220.7   18.3   239.0
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                                160.0    3.7   163.7
Net held by the corporation                                   60.7   14.6    75.3
Total Undisbursed (including participant's portion)           85.2    3.6    88.8
/a $45,969.



-20-                 ~xx
-20-                     ~~~~~~ANNEX II
THAILAND
THIRD SHELTER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            3 year.
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:   National Housing Authority
(c)  First presentation to Bank:               1981, redefined in 1983
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:           Nay 1986
(e)  Completion of negotiations:              January 1987
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:            July 1987
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) all subprojects proposed for Bank-financing would meet agreed
eligibility criteria (para. 36);
(b) land acquisition for project sites would proceed in a timely manner
and adequate staff would be allocated for project implementation
(para. 37);
(c) NHA's development program and financial performance would be
reviewed annually with the Bank (paras. 41 and 43);
(d) NHA would carry out an arrears reduction program in a timely manner
(para. 42); and
(e)  NXA would maintain a debt service ratio of at least 1.5 (para. 43).



MAP SECTION



yug E    ;t,-    D                [~~~~AO PFOPLF S    )                  #*8
DLMOCRATIC RIPUOLIC                   - j       hgq*
0I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
ph..                 %~~~~\IrT NAM
I7- ~              ~~ -_                    +\I 'l
~~ ¾.  ~        DEMOCRATIC KAMPUCHEA
I?-                                                                                               'P
gr          r~~~ H A I L A N D                                              .
Al   THIRD SHELTER PROJECT
*   PF ROJECT CITIES                               _
*   PROVINCE CAPItALS                                VIET NAM
so.                  I                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                       '.
-     PMMAY ROADS
, *r.  +-- 4  RAILROADS
MYERS
H N.'    %                  MOUNTAINOUS AREAS
Acc  t'.                 *  \\ 4  AlfPOftTS ,,AIRPORTS
PROVINCE BOUNDAIIES
.- ~-~ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
pwo.
.r    f     .u                  M                MALAYSI
u..lb m uted                    I  -__________                                              _     A     I M
fillil                   _-IWa        a.a U   o  i 
_.wpi .in                                                                           M .. ann0
a- -,._.rL SA                                                            Y.                    l       -1
n                                                                        up.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGUJST lIsN



