Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB638 
Project Name 
Pensions Administration 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID 
P087470 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SERBIA & MONTENEGRO 
Implementing Agency 
Office of the Deputy Prime Minister for Financial Systems and 
Public Expenditures 
Government Building 
Jovana Tomasevica BB 
81000 
Podgorica 
Republic of Montenegro 
Serbia and Montenegro 
  
Contact:  Ivan Bojanovic (same address as above) 
Telephone:
(381-81) 202-215, (381-81) 202-195 
Fax:
(381-81) 202-218 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 20, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 4, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
June 8, 2004 
 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
(a) Background 
 
The Bank Group support to Serbia and Montenegro (SAM) is set out in the TSS Update for 
FY04,  which was presented to the Board on March 16, 2004.  It describes progress during 
FY03, and provides the strategic framework for the final year (FY04) of the three year Bank 
Group assistance program.  A full three year participatory  Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 
covering FY05-FY07 will be developed jointly with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) 
during the course of FY04 and presented to the Board for consideration at the end of the calendar 
year in 2004. 
 
(b) Political and Socioeconomic Context 
Political Outlook.
  
The new constitutional union State of Serbia and Montenegro came into 
being in February 2003.  The new union is now fully established and functioning.   The 
Montenegrin political situation remains stable but the pace of reform has been uneven. Against 
this backdrop, both Serbian and Montenegrin leaders have placed high priority on establishing a 
Page  2
 
 
clear path to European integration through the EU Stabilization and Association process and 
implementation of the Internal Market and Trade Action Plan for Serbia and Montenegro. Under 
the Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe, 
S A M 
and other partners participate in working 
tables covering a wide range of initiatives designed, 
inter alia, 
to strengthen democratic 
initiatives, cross border cooperation and intra-regional trade and investment.  Montenegro’s 
ruling coalition garnered a strong majority in the 2002 elections, but differences within the 
coalition resulted in delays in processing various important items of legislation in Parliament. 
 
Economic Developments
.
  
SAM ’
 s 
leadership is still grappling with the legacy of a decade of 
adverse external and internal factors. The centralization o f political power at the federal level 
during the 1990s weakened economic institutions, exacerbated poor public accountability, and 
led to more government intervention in markets (e.g., with price and exchange controls). The 
effects of poor economic management were compounded by international sanctions (1992-96 
and 1998-2000) which severely inhibited trade and investment in the country. By 2000, recorded 
per capita GDP had fallen to about one half of it’s 1989 level. Foreign trade volumes also 
declined sharply while inflation (including hyperinflation in 1993) was chronic.  
 
SAM 
had accumulated large domestic and external debts, with the latter reaching around 131% 
of GDP in 2000 GDP (figures exclude Kosovo). Although cash deficits of the consolidated 
government were kept low, this was achieved largely through unsustainable expenditure 
compression, the accumulation of budgetary arrears, non-servicing o f public debt, and the 
toleration of quasi-fiscal deficits. The real sector became largely inefficient due to the lack of 
market oriented ownership structures, the loss of markets, lack of access to working capital, 
delayed investment and maintenance, and repressive and complicated taxation and regulation. 
This resulted in a decrease in real earnings, with absolute poverty roughly doubling since 1990, 
and a deterioration in social protection and health services, as available financing fell below 
existing entitlement levels. 
 
Progress in stabilizing the macroeconomic situation and structural reform has remained 
positive 
however,
 
implementation remains the key challenge. Montenegro’s consolidated fiscal 
deficit 
was cut from about 8 percent of republican GDP in 2000 to 5.3 percent in 2003. The 
renewal of transfers to cover federal union expenditures has placed new pressure on fiscal 
accounts in 2003. Excluding this transfer, the underlying fiscal deficit for 2003 is expected to 
decrease further to about 3 percent of GDP.   
 
Montenegro enacted a new law on pension and disability insurance, a new labor law to increase 
the flexibility of the labor market, and a number of reforms focused on creating a more favorable 
business environment.  In Montenegro’s
 
financial sector, priority areas of focus will include: 
completing the restructuring and privatization of the remaining state bank; resolving bad assets 
carved-out of privatized banks; and withdrawing Government deposits from the commercial 
banks. 
 
Despite four years of growth, living standards remain low relative to historical standards 
and popular expectations.  
In 2003, recorded GDP will be less than 60 percent of its 1990 level.  
Absolute poverty remains a problem in both republics.
1
  In Montenegro, most estimates indicate 
                                                
 
1
 The Bank’s recent Poverty Assessment found that by mid-2002, material poverty affected every tenth person in 
Page  3
 
 
that GDP growth has been modest at less than 2 percent per annum since 2000, while the official 
unemployment rate has remained high – over 20 percent (among the highest in the region).  Not 
only is open unemployment a problem, households without working members make up one 
quarter of all poor, but a large share of the working age population are also inactive or occupying 
themselves with  low productivity and/or occasional work. For an economy-wide perspective this 
represents output foregone and income lost. Moreover, the important goal of sharing the benefits 
of growth more equitably among groups and regions proves increasingly elusive when many 
citizens are trapped in long-term unemployment. A sustainable supply response does not yet 
appear to have taken root. 
 
Given these conditions, a viable social security system can play an important role in smoothing 
these volatilities for the vulnerable.  However, both the policy and administrative environment 
for developing a robust and viable social security system have been in disarray and carry a heavy 
legacy of the socialist systems. 
 
(c) Sector Issues 
 
Within the sector, there are serious economic and political constraints to reform
, including 
the fragile situation of the public finances, large competing expenditure needs, lack of developed 
financial markets and regulatory frameworks, and the need to provide minimum protection to 
pensioners who may not live to enjoy the eventual benefits from the transition but still expect the 
government to honor their “social contract”.  Nonetheless, efforts to embark on systemic reform 
have gained new urgency as it becomes even more obvious that fiscal sustainability of the 
pension system is at best, precarious. 
 
The pension system is under severe fiscal stress: due in the short run to an ineffective 
administrative system, characterized by a loose and fragmented collection and compliance 
system, and economic and demographic factors
 
that affect it's sustainability over the 
medium term
.
  
An aging population and the erosion of the contribution base triggered by 
economic stagnation and a growing shadow economy, have both contributed to a decline in the 
system dependency ratio to 1.3 workers per pensioner.  The age dependency ratio (the ratio of 
the over-65 year old population to the 15-65 year old population) grew to exceed 20 percent.  
Both indicators are similar to those found in neighboring countries.  However, with a 
replacement rate of 69 percent, a low retirement age of 55 for women and 60 for men, wage 
indexation of benefits, loose standards for disability eligibility, and overly generous benefits, the 
pension system became unsustainable.  By 2002, pension expenditure reached 13 percent of 
GDP.  Pension contributions and Budget transfers to the Pension Fund (PIO) were insufficient 
and the pension deficit reached  3.9 percent of GDP in 2002.
2
 
 
 
                                                                                                                               
                             
 
both Serbia and Montenegro (defined as population with consumption below the country-specific absolute poverty 
line). The report found that poorly educated individuals make up the majority of SAM’s poor and have the highest 
poverty risk. Those with elementary education constitute about two-thirds of all poor and are twice as likely to be 
poor as secondary school graduates. Lower education attainment is the key background factor explaining the higher 
incidence of poverty of some vulnerable groups, such as rural or jobless households. The report also found that 
jobless households (i.e., families with working-age members in which no one works) have more than twice the 
average poverty incidence, but households with gainfully employed members make up 75 percent of the poor. 
2
 The pension contribution rate is 24 of gross salaries, split equally between employees and employers. 
Page  4
 
 
The administrative and institutional arrangements for managing the pension system 
remain weak, with a host of issues that need to be urgently dealt with
, including; (i) 
fragmented collection and reporting systems, with several agencies doing the same functions; (ii) 
weak collection and compliance processes and procedures; (iii) a lack of accurate data and weak 
data management systems; (iv) very little coordination between the key agencies involved, 
including, the Health Fund, Pension Fund (PIO), Agency for Public Revenues (DPR), and 
Ministry of Labor; and (v) lack of capacity to assess and analyze data, and draw policy 
implications.  Underlying these issues, is the politics of the reform process – a shift in power 
between agencies, a downsizing/increasing of importance of certain posts and positions, and the 
related unwillingness to share information/data among the different agencies. 
 
To address these issues, 
a new law on pension and disability insurance, was introduced in 
September 2003. This law adjusts key parameters of the pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) pension 
system to better align entitlements to available resources, announces the introduction of the 
funded pension pillars, outlines administrative reform and a time table for shifting 
responsibilities among key agencies involved in collection and compliance
.  These reforms 
have improved the near-term fiscal balance and set the stage for possible introduction of a multi-
pillar system in the future.  These changes (effective in January 2004) included: 
 
(i) 
increased retirement age by five years for men and women (65 and 60 respectively) over 
a ten-year period; 
(ii) 
widened calculation period from ten best years to full career over a 15 year period; 
(iii) 
changed indexation pattern from wage to a combination of wages and prices; 
(iv) 
introduction of a point formula and lowered accrual rates from more than 2 percent to 1 
percent per year of service;  
(v) 
tightened disability conditions; and 
(vi) 
elimination of most social-related benefits, such as rehabilitation and recreation, etc. 
 
These changes should lower the pension deficit to less than 1 percent of GDP in 2006 and likely 
to eliminate the pension deficit by 2009.
3
  The declining path of pension to GDP ratio will 
eventually create the fiscal space for the next round of reform in which the financial management 
procedures of the pension system will be strengthened and funded pillars possibly introduced.  
The Pension Insurance Law and other recently enacted legislation on tax and social 
contribution collection also envisage a full transfer of collection and control responsibility 
to the Agency for Public Revenues (DPR) in 2005
 
and full transfer of reporting procedures 
and requirements to the DPR in 2006
. 
 
However, these statutory changes address only the policy environment and leave unattended the 
needed complementary administrative and institutional capacity – critical to the implementation 
of the reforms.  These capacity constraints, especially in skills for stricter compliance and 
collections, processing, policy analysis, and the required investments in software and hardware 
for better data management, registration, and payment processing, so critical to improved 
                                                
 
3
 However, these projections do not take into account more recent changes being contemplated, including a 
reduction of contributions from employers from the current 12% to 7.2% which are likely to push further the path of 
declining deficits, unless offsetting measures are proposed. 
Page  5
 
 
efficiency and effectiveness of the system – are likely to jeopardize the gains got through 
improvement of the policy environment. 
 
The importance of these administrative reforms is critical in the short run: both on the 
potential for increased contributions and in tightening illegitimate payments.  
Some 
estimates put the level of evasion at 50 percent for the total prospective population of 
contributors.
4
  And on the payments sides, according to one survey, 52 percent of disability 
pensioners were below 50 years of age and 25 percent of disability pension beneficiaries cheated 
about their disability
5
.  These weaknesses of the pension system, coupled with an unlikely steep 
decline in the deficit as has been projected under the parametric reforms (due to any of the 
assumptions underlying the projections, not holding true) would mean that administrative 
tightening would provide the only lever in the short run, both for increasing contributions and 
preventing hemorrhaging on the payments side.  
 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The project development objectives are to improve the financial sustainability, effectiveness, and 
efficiency of the pension system through: 
\01fi
Developing a unified contribution collection and reporting system and establishing central 
registries that are based on modern information technology and processes. 
\01fi
Modernization and restructuring as needed, of the organization, processes, and technology in 
the key institutions of the Pension system: the DPR and Fund PIO. 
\01fi
Developing capacity for better policy analysis and evaluation of the pension system and 
improving readiness for future pension reforms  
 
The key performance indicators would include: 
 
• 
Modernization and restructuring implementation plans prepared and implemented in DPR 
and Fund PIO, with milestones to measure progress. 
• 
Compliance improved as measured by revenue/(average wage*employment).
6
 
• 
Effectiveness of administration improved, measured by stock of arrears/revenues. 
• 
Efficiency of administration improved, comparing Montenegro costs/revenues to similar 
sized republics’ average costs/revenues in neighboring countries. 
• 
Client services improved, measured by increases in numbers of enquiries received and 
answered. 
• 
Lowering of the burden for employers as measured by fewer requirements and forms for 
processing. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
                                                
 
4
 Report by PriceWaterhouseCoopers, 08/21/2001. 
5
 Survey on revenues and households no. 6 ISSP 
6
 Employment to be measured by labor force survey; wages are those reported by statistical office.  Any changes in 
payroll tax rates to be normalized in computation; that is changes in payroll taxes alone do not change compliance. 
Page  6
 
 
In order to ensure that the government has the capacity and the needed investment in place for 
proper implementation of the legislative framework, a Pension System Administration 
Investment Project (PSAIP) had been requested by the Government, through the Minister of 
Finance, in a letter to the Bank dated November 10, 2003.  In response to this request, a World 
Bank teamvisited Montenegro, from December 9-16, 2003, to identify the possibility of such a 
project, which would be supported by an International Development Association (IDA) credit. 
 
Preparatory work for these reforms has been built up through the Structural Adjustment Credit 
(SAC) missions and policy measures set out under SAC I and  the proposed SAC II.  The project 
will also benefit from the extensive diagnostic workUSAID has done in this sector.  However, 
USAID, the largest donor in Montenegro, sees a complementary and supportive role for the Bank 
as it begins to wind down its efforts and withdraw its involvement in this sector in 2005.
 
 
Given this situation there appears to be a window of opportunity to: 
 
• 
build on the improved policy environment and strengthen the reforms under the Bank’s SAC 
II through needed investments at the institutional level. 
• 
seize a window of opportunity in the sector where government readiness appears to have 
crystallized around the need for improved administrative capacity and modernization of the 
pension system; and 
• 
ensure that the hard won reforms at the policy level are not derailed due to lack of support in 
implementation of the reforms. 
 
4. Description 
 
Project Components 
(Note: project costings have to be finalized with the counterparts.  Feedback on the estimates 
from the counterparts is expected by the first week of April, 2004) 
 
Implementation of recently enacted legislation and policies to improve the pension system will 
require investments and capacity to be built in the following four areas: (i) tax and contribution 
collection and information management; (ii) Fund PIO modernization; (iii) strengthening 
capacity for policy analysis and (iv) developing a public education and outreach program. 
 
The proposed project will provide financing for computer and telecommunications, hardware and 
software, study tours, foreign and local training, expert advisory services, public education 
materials, office upgrading, and incremental recurrent costs.  The estimated total cost of the 
project is US$5 million.  The project will be implemented over a period of four years and will 
consist of the following three components and activities: 
 
A.  Increase Tax and Contribution Compliance 
(estimated to cost $3.9million, of which $3.2 
million will be Bank-financed)
 
 
This component will serve to improve compliance by strengthening the DPR capacity
 
to (i) 
assume the role of social contribution collection in addition to income tax collection; and (ii) 
Page  7
 
 
take on the role of integrated data collection for income tax and social contributions, in the 
agreed time period.  Key activities under this component include: 
 
• 
Consolidation of contribution collection, control and enforcement functions in DPR.  
Project would provide TA, equipment and training for creating additional capacity in 
DPR and establishing procedures for integration. 
• 
Creating central registries on tax and contribution payers including central registration of 
new companies, self employed and farmers, with data dissemination to all involved 
institutions. 
• 
Establishing of expanded DPR organizational structure that would be performing 
additional processes in its operations to eliminate the duplicative functions of other 
agencies. 
 
The design and implementation of this ‘extended revenue model’ – building on the existing 
revenue collection capabilities in DPR to include Registries, Contributions, Benefits, and 
Compliance would enable the DPR to establish, and maintain information about every person 
insured for any of the social insurance risks and the contributions paid.  The system would also 
allow the DPR to maintain information regarding contributions and liabilities of all employers 
and to match this information with similar information from related systems. This facility will 
allow the DPR to detect potential nonpayments or underpayments and take corrective actions.  
 
B.  Restructure and modernize the Fund PIO 
(estimated to US$ 1.6 million, of which $1.3 
million will be Bank-financed) 
 
This component is aimed at modernizing the fund PIO to: (i) improve services to clients, both 
contributors and beneficiaries; and (ii) focus the  Fund PIO on it’s core capabilities and 
processes.  Key activities under this component include: 
 
• 
Reviewing the core functions of the Fund PIO in light of the new law and establishing 
core processes and procedures that underlie these functions.
 
• 
Eliminating duplicative functions and streamlining the processes to improve services to 
pensioners. 
• 
Investment in equipment, both hardware and software to modernize core functions of the 
PIO of statistical and policy analysis, processing of claims, awarding of benefits, appeal 
processing, and better servicing its clients. 
• 
Delivering training programs, technical assistance,  to support the new role of the PIO. 
 
To illustrate how modernization and restructuring might help the Fund PIO, take the area of 
contribution data processing.  Here Employers send their summary data on contributors’ 
wages/salary to the Fund PIO.  These returns are 99 percent paper based.  In the year 2000, some 
162,00 such forms were submitted to the PIO.  In addition some 60,000 forms (on cessation of 
employment or commencement) were sent as well. These forms were processed manually and 
scanned for electronic archiving. The data on these forms is maintained in three locations: the 
form itself, the PIO’s IT system, and the electronic archiving system. The DPR will also collect 
the same information under the new integrated tax and social insurance collection system.  It 
would be much more efficient to be able to access this information from a central database, as is 
Page  8
 
 
being planned under the project.  And the same applies to other agencies like the Health Fund 
and the Unemployment Bureau, which maintain their separate databases as well.  
 
The total costs for this component are estimated to be about $1.4 million.  The costing for this 
component has yet to be finalized with the counterparts
.
  Feedback on the estimates from the 
counterparts is expected by end March, 2004. 
 
C. Develop and Strengthen Capacity for Pension Policy 
(estimated to cost $0.4 million, of 
which $0.3 million will be Bank financed) 
 
This component is designed to address capacity constraints in designing pension policy, 
supervision of private pension funds, and developing a public education campaign.  The total 
cost for this component is envisaged at $.6million.  The sub-components include: 
 
i. 
Developing capacity for policy analysis and supervision
.  This sub-component would 
include provision of training, equipment, technical assistance and staffing, in: (a)
 
creating 
capacity and analytical tools such as a pension model to analyze and forecast pension policy in 
the Ministry of Labor.  In addition to investment needs in the Department, there is a serious 
shortage of qualified staff.  The project would finance consultants in the Ministry as well. And, 
(b) preparing the groundwork for capacity building for supervision of pension funds, and in for 
third pillar reforms, over time.  The current Insurance Supervision Department in the Ministry of 
Finance consists of a staff of three and is in great need of training, education and equipment.  
 
 
ii. 
Public education campaign
.  
Key activities under this sub-component would include:
 
A phased education campaign aimed, with due sensitivity to the messages and their timing, to 
promote the goals of the pension reform, and explain the need for the changes.  This campaign 
would be staged over the life of the project and would include at a later stage, building public 
support for a three pillar reform  and widen public awareness for the need to voluntarily save for 
retirement.   
 
D. Project 
Coordination
 (estimated to cost $0.3 million of which $0.2 million will be 
Bank-financed) 
 
This component would support a Project Coordination Unit to be established under the Office of 
the Deputy Prime Minister and would be staffed by a Project Coordinator and an Administrative 
Assistant.  Procurement and financial management activities will be provided by a central 
Technical Services Unit (TSU) which has been established under the Office of the Prime 
Minister, responsible for providing core procurement and financial management services for all 
Bank-financed projects. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 1.2 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
5.0 
 Total 
6.2 
 
Page  9
 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Partnership arrangements (if applicable) 
The project is building on and using the extensive analytical work done by USAID in this sector.  
Beyond that, no partnerships are envisaged currently, though during implementation of the 
project, other partners will be actively sought.    
 
Institutional and implementation arrangements 
 
The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister would be the lead implementation agency for the 
project, responsible for project management and implementation.  A Project Coordination Unit 
(PCU) will be established in the offices of the MOF and will consist of a full-time Project 
Coordinator and an Administrative Assistant.  The PCU will be responsible for project 
coordination and monitoring of implementation process. 
 
To ensure smooth implementation of the Project, a high-level Steering Committee shall be 
established by Government Resolution and made responsible for strategic decisions on project 
implementation, coordination and monitoring.  The Steering Committee shall be chaired by the 
Deputy Prime Minister for Financial System and Public Expenditures and shall be composed of 
the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Labor and Social Welfare, Heads of other agencies 
involved in the Project (Directorate of Public Revenues, Health Fund, Fund PIO, Unemployment 
Fund, Statistics Agency, and Secretariat for Development), plus the Head of the Technical 
Services Unit (TSU).  The Steering Committee shall meet regularly at least on a quarterly basis, 
or more frequently as the need arises. 
 
The GOM recently decided to establish a central Technical Services Unit (TSU) in the General 
Secretariat (Prime Minister’s Department), responsible for carrying out core procurement and 
financial management functions for all future Bank-financed projects, and potentially for other 
donor-supported projects.  This TSU has been established with Terms of References (
ToRs
) that 
define clear boundaries of responsibility between the line Ministry and the TSU, giving the line 
Ministry clear overall responsibility and decision-making authority, and making the TSU 
accountable to line Ministries for providing prompt, professional services.  The location of the 
TSU is to have day-to-day autonomy within the General Secretariat to carry out its business 
functions, as described in a TSU Operations Manual. 
 
The Project Coordinator will use the Project Operational Manual prepared by the TSU, under the 
Health Project for guidelines and procedures.  The TSU has prepared an operational manual for 
the TSU, covering financial management and procurement arrangements, and relationships with 
line Ministries.  The Operations Manual for the TSU is generic, covering core arrangements for 
all future Bank projects which will be served by the TSU, in addition to the Project.  Project-
specific annexes will be added as required. 
 
Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results 
 
Page  10
 
 
The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of Financial Policy and Economy, would take 
responsibility for monitoring and evaluation.  Proposed monitoring indicators are listed in Annex 
3 below. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The Government has already launched the parametric reforms to its PAYGO system.  It has also 
passed a new law on pension and disability insurance in September 2003.  Under this law, new 
collection and control responsibilities are envisaged.  These cannot be undertaken without the 
requisite restructuring and investments which the project supports. 
 
This cross-coordination is at the core of the project’s success.  Previous attempts by other donors 
did not yield results as the dialogue and process for reform proceeded in silos, i.e. within the 
different agencies, without an attempt to link their efforts or develop cross agency relationships 
so crucial to sharing of information and getting agreement for implementation. 
 
For the first time, all of the key agencies, i.e. the Health Fund, the Unemployment Bureau, DPR, 
Fund PIO, and other agencies have agreed to an implementation plan.  This implementation plan 
is supported both at the senior management levels, i.e. Directors and the respective Ministers and 
at the working level, by an expert group, again drawn from the relevant agencies. 
 
Moreover, the project is being shepherded by the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of financial 
policy and economy (who was previously the Finance Minister).  The Deputy Prime Minister is 
responsible for coordinating the functioning of these agencies as well. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
The implementation of pension reform and administration projects in the Europe and Central 
Asia region has shown that success depends on: (i) support from the authorities at the highest 
level in the implementing agencies; (ii) the willingness to accept technical assistance; (iii) clear 
linkages between operational reforms and the investment in information systems; (iv) the 
development of appropriate software to support operational reforms; (v) the development of 
software applications prior to the purchase of hardware; (vi) the development of a committed and 
well-trained Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to implement the project; (vii) adequate training of 
staff to use the new procedures; and (viii) coordinated policy objectives across Government and 
the agencies involved in the project.  
And as evidenced throughout the region, successful 
pension reform depends on successful administrative reform
. 
 
In designing  the project, to build commitment and ensure high level support, the team has 
worked with the government to: 
 
• 
Establish a working group with the Deputy Prime Minister as it’s Chair. The working 
group would meet at least once a month to monitor progress and resolve contentious 
issues. 
• 
The working group includes the Ministers of Labor, Finance, and all of the Directors of 
the relevant agencies, such as Health, Unemployment Bureau, Fund-PIO, among others. 
Page  11
 
 
• 
The working group has nominated an expert team drawn from several agencies for 
implementation of the project. 
 
The project support for consolidated revenue collection and reporting reflects lessons learnt and 
good practice reforms being implemented in South Eastern Europe, and Central and Eastern 
Europe.  The move towards consolidated revenue collection and reporting is supported by both 
the Bank and IMF as increasing efficiency, accountability and transparency in the revenue 
system. Examples of Banks-supported efforts in this direction are Bulgaria, Slovakia, and 
Croatia.  
 
In looking specifically at collection, record-keeping and transferring contributions to individual 
accounts, experience suggests there is usually a mix of causes.  Contribution rates, including 
levies on employer and employee, frequently exceed a quarter of gross wages in many countries.  
And high contribution rates, coupled with weak links between contributions paid and benefits 
received, can result in poor incentives to comply and even for people to take jobs or firms to hire 
them. With contribution rates on average with neighboring countries and benefits more than 
generous, this particular aspect does not appear to be an issue in Montenegro. On the other hand, 
complying with contribution requirements can impose a large administrative burden on 
employers, which appears to be the case in Montenegro. 
 
Poor rates of collections can also result from institutional weaknesses in collection systems.  For 
example, employees of collection agencies are poorly paid.  This can result in recruitment and 
retention problems, poor qualifications and motivation.  It also increases the potential for 
corruption.  This is very much a live issue in Montenegro.
  
As such, the main focus of the 
project is on institutional strengthening
. 
 
Other common problems identified are that, often, more than one agency collects levies on 
earnings, with social security, personal income taxation, and health insurance administered 
separately.  Different agencies often fail to share information, and duplication adds to public 
sector’s administrative costs and to employers’ compliance costs.  Some countries lack a unique 
system of identification numbers for workers and fail to take full advantage of information 
technology.  These issues become even more acute for countries with limited capacity and a 
paucity of trained officials.  
The above issues are predominant in Montenegro.  
 
Given such a situation, care is being taken to address these issues by: (i) approaching the process 
in a cross-cutting manner, by involving all of the key stakeholders in the reform process; (ii) 
given due attention to the political economy and incentives for change, by creating champions, 
developing a coalition, and explicitly recognizing issues that would need to be dealt with for 
those who will lose from the reforms; (iii) creating a shared platform with other donors, such as 
USAID, for pushing the reforms forward; and (iv) creating awareness of the reforms in the 
public and media through a public information campaign. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Page  12
 
 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
 
 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Arshad M. Sayed 
Title: Senior Strategy and Operations Officer 
Tel: (202) 473-7291 
Fax:  
Email: Asayed@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
 
WBG User 
Q:\My Documents\FY2004\SaM-PensionAdmin\Decision Pack\PID\Project Information Document - Appraisal Stage.doc 
April 14, 2004 12:57 PM
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
 
