                      Document of
                   The World Bank




                                             Report No: ICR00001643




 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                  (IDA-39190)



                        ON A

                       CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.5 MILLION
            (US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

         TO THE REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO

                       FOR A

PENSION SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION INVESTMENT PROJECT




                    June 08, 2011




            Human Development Department
            South East Europe Country Unit
            Europe and Central Asia Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 8, 2011)

                  Currency Unit     =    Euro
                      Euro 1.00     =    US$ 1.4625
                     US$ 1.611      =    SDR 1.00

                              FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 - December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AM          Aide-Memoire
DPR         Directorate for Public Revenues
ECA         Europe and Central Asia
ERTP        Economic Reconstruction and Transition Program
FM          Financial Management
FRY         Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
HIF         Health Insurance Fund
HSIP        Health System Improvement Project
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
INT         Integrity Vice Presidency (World Bank Group)
ISR         Implementation Status and Results Report
IT          Information Technology
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOLSA       Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
ODPM        Office of the Deputy Prime Minister for Financial Systems and Public
            Expenditures
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PAYGP       Pay-as-you-go
PDO         Project Development Objective
PHRD        Policy and Human Resources Development
PIO         Pension and Disability Fund
PR          Public Relations
PSAIP       Pension Systems Administration Investment Project
QALP        Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio
SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
SAM         Serbia and Montenegro
TA          Technical Assistance
TSU         Technical Services Unit
UCG         Unified Collection Gateway
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
VPF         Voluntary Pension Fund
        Vice President:                 Philippe H. Le Houerou
        Country Director:               Jane Armitage
        Sector Manager:                 Kathy Lindert
        Project Team Leader:            Rajna Cemerska
        ICR Team Leader                 Snjezana Plevko
                                  REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO
                           Pension System Administration Investment Project



                                                      CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................ 10
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 22
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 22
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 25
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 26
Attachment 1. Results Framework .................................................................................... 27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 33
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 34
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 42
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 45
MAP IBRD 34825
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Pensions System
                                                                           Administration
Country:                Montenegro               Project Name:
                                                                           Investment Project
                                                                           (Montenegro)
Project ID:             P087470                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-39190
ICR Date:               06/13/2011               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           MONTENEGRO
Original Total
                        XDR 3.5M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 3.1M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 3.1M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
 Ministry of Health, Labor and Social Welfare
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/03/2004     Effectiveness:             09/08/2004        09/08/2004
                                                                                   04/21/2008
Appraisal:             03/29/2004     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                   03/30/2010
Approval:              06/08/2004     Mid-term Review:           01/22/2007        01/22/2007
                                      Closing:                   09/30/2008        09/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower Satisfactory



                                                 i
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance                         95                  95
Non-compulsory pensions and insurance                                  5                   5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               33                  33
Law reform                                                            17                  17
Other public sector governance                                        17                  17
Tax policy and administration                                         33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Kathy A. Lindert                     Hermann A. von Gersdorff
Project Team Leader:       Rajna Cemerska-Krtova                Arshad M. Sayed
ICR Team Leader:           Snjezana Plevko
ICR Primary Author:        Csaba Feher


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objectives are to improve the financial sustainability,
effectiveness, and efficiency of the pension system through:




                                               ii
  a. Developing a unified contribution collection and reporting system and establishing
central registries that are based on modern information technology and processes.
  b. Modernization and restructuring, as needed, of the organization, processes, and
technology in the key institutions of the Pension system: the DPR and Fund PIO.
  c. Developing capacity for better policy design and analysis of the pension system and
improving readiness for future pension reforms.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N.A.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target      Completion or
                                               documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Please see Attachment 1 for Analysis of the Results Framework.
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Please see Attachment 1 for Analysis of the Results Framework.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                        IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     06/30/2004            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/21/2004            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     0.10



                                               iii
 3     06/18/2005       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory             0.14
 4     02/24/2006      Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory            0.42
 5     11/27/2006      Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory            0.69
 6     05/09/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory      0.93
 7     05/24/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory      1.85
 8     06/16/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory      2.10
 9     08/31/2009       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory             2.62
 10    01/22/2010   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory             3.29
 11    04/12/2010   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory             3.49
 12    10/12/2010       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory      3.77


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Closing Date extended from
                                                     Sept 30, 2008 to Mar 31, 2010
                                                     to allow additional time for
 04/21/2008               MS    MS            1.85
                                                     completion of envisaged
                                                     reforms for the pensions
                                                     administration systems
                                                     Extension of Closing Date from
                                                     Mar 31, 2010 to Sept 30, 2010
                                                     to allow successful installation,
                                                     testing and completion of the
 03/30/2010               MS      S           3.49
                                                     software solutions for the
                                                     Unified registration, reporting
                                                     and personal income tax and
                                                     social contributions collection.




                                              iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and sector issues

Serbia and Montenegro (SAM) succeeded to the membership of the former Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the World Bank in May, 2001. Five years later, on
June 3, 2006, following a referendum, the Assembly of the Republic of Montenegro
issued a Declaration of Independence initiating a peaceful separation from Serbia. The
World Bank Group support to SAM was guided by a Transitional Support Strategy
(2001) and its regular updates (2002, 2003) while funding was provided in two stages.
First, a pre-membership phase funded a US$30 million Trust Fund for Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia (FRY) and later, in the second phase, an Economic Reconstruction and
Transition Program (ERTP) was financed with a US$540 million temporary and
exceptional IDA envelope.

By the time of the Project's design and early stages of implementation, the union State of
Serbia and Montenegro was fully established and functioning with both Serbian and
Montenegrin leaders placing high priority on seeking early accession to the European
Union.

SAM’s leadership had to cope with the legacy of a decade of adverse external and
internal factors. The centralization of political power at the federal level during the
1990s weakened economic institutions, exacerbated poor public accountability, and led to
more government intervention in markets (e.g., with price and exchange controls). The
effects of poor economic management were compounded by international sanctions
(1992-1996 and 1998-2000) which severely inhibited trade and investment in the country.
By 2000, recorded per capita gross domestic product (GDP) had fallen to about one half
of its 1989 level. Foreign trade volumes also declined sharply while inflation (including
hyperinflation in 1993) was chronic.

SAM also accumulated large domestic and external debt. The external debt was around
131 percent of GDP in 2000 (figures exclude Kosovo). Although cash deficits of the
consolidated government were kept low, this was achieved largely through unsustainable
expenditure compression, the accumulation of budgetary arrears, non-servicing of public
debt, and the toleration of quasi-fiscal deficits. The real sector became largely inefficient
due to the lack of market-oriented ownership structures, the loss of markets, lack of
access to working capital, delayed investment and maintenance, and repressive and
complicated taxation and regulation. This resulted in a decrease in real earnings, with
absolute poverty almost doubling since 1990, and a deterioration in social protection and
health services, as available financing fell below existing entitlement levels.

Macroeconomic and fiscal stabilization were high on the agenda of the government but
remained a challenging task partly because of factors external to Montenegro:



                                             1
Montenegro’s consolidated fiscal deficit was cut from about 8 percent of republican GDP
in 2000 to 5.3 percent in 2003, but the renewal of transfers to cover federal union
expenditures has placed new pressure on fiscal accounts in 2003.

Despite four years of growth, living standards remained low relative to historical levels
and popular expectations. In 2003, recorded GDP was less than 60 percent of its 1990
level. Absolute poverty remained a problem in Serbia and Montenegro. In Montenegro,
most estimates indicated a GDP growth below 2 percent per annum in the preceding three
years, while the official unemployment rate was more than 20 percent. In addition to
unemployment, labor force participation rates were low as a large share of the working
age population was either inactive or supported themselves through temporary/occasional
work. The important goal of sharing the benefits of growth proved increasingly elusive
when many citizens were trapped in long-term unemployment.

Given these conditions, it was deemed crucial that a viable social security system
emerges and plays its role in social protection and promoting economic activity and labor
supply. However, both the policy and administrative environment for developing a
robust and fiscally sustainable social security system were hampered by the legacy of the
socialist systems and the changes in the country's status and administrative circumstances.

The pension system was under severe fiscal stress, due to a loose and fragmented
collection and compliance system, and economic and demographic factors that affected
its sustainability over the medium term. An aging population and the erosion of the
contribution base triggered by economic stagnation and a growing shadow economy,
contributed to a decline in the system dependency ratio to 1.3 workers per pensioner.
The age dependency ratio 1 grew to over 20 percent. With a replacement rate of 69
percent, a low retirement age of 55 for women and 60 for men, wage indexation of
benefits, loose standards for disability eligibility, and overly generous benefits, the
pension system became unsustainable. By 2002, pension expenditures reached 13
percent of GDP and the pension deficit reached 3.9 percent of GDP.

The administrative and institutional arrangements for the management of the pension
system were weak due to (i) fragmented and duplicative collection and reporting systems;
(ii) weak collection and compliance processes and procedures; (iii) lack of accurate data
and weak data management systems; (iv) very little coordination between the key
agencies involved, including the Health Insurance Fund (HIF), Pension and Disability
Fund (PIO), Directorate for Public Revenues (DPR), and Ministry of Labor and Social
Affairs (MOLSA); and (v) lack of capacity to assess and analyze data and draw policy
implications. PIO’s databases were outdated, lacked proper integration and were often
incomplete or incorrect.

To address these issues, a new law on pension and disability insurance was introduced in
September 2003. This law adjusted key parameters of the pay-as-you-go (PAYGO)
pension system to better align entitlements to available resources, announced the


1
    The ratio of the over-65 year old population to the 15-65 year old population.



                                                                     2
introduction of funded pension pillars and outlined administrative reforms. The changes
(effective as of January 2004) included:
(i)       increased retirement age by five years for men and women (65 and 60
          respectively) over a ten-year period;
(ii)      widened calculation period from ten best years to full career over a 15 year
          period;
(iii)     changed indexation pattern from wage to a combination of wages and prices;
(iv)      introduction of a point formula and lowered accrual rates from more than two
          percent to one percent per year of service;
(v)       tightened disability conditions; and
(vi)      eliminated most social-related benefits, such as rehabilitation and recreation, etc.

These changes were expected to lower the pension deficit to less than one percent of
GDP by 2006 and to fully eliminate it by 2009. Also, the declining path of pension to
GDP ratio was expected to create fiscal space for the next round of policy reforms where
funded pillars would have been introduced on a mandatory basis. The Pension Insurance
Law also envisaged a full transfer of collection and control responsibilities to the Agency
for Public Revenues (DPR) in 2005 and full transfer of reporting procedures and
requirements in 2006.

However, these statutory changes addressed only the policy environment and left
unattended the complementary administrative and institutional capacity critical to the
implementation of the reforms. These capacity constraints, especially in abilities for
stricter compliance and collection, processing, policy analysis, and the required
investments in software and hardware for better data management, registration, and
payment processing, were likely to jeopardize the gains intended by the policy reform.

To mitigate the constraint and ensure the capacity and investments needed for proper
implementation of the legislative framework, in November, 2003 the Government
requested the World Bank support through the Pensions System Administration
Investment Project (PSAIP)2.


Rationale for Bank involvement
With the strong Government ownership of the reform, the legislative framework for new
pension system was put in place, support for the proposed reforms provided through the
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) and diagnostic work performed under a USAID
project.3 These developments created a great opportunity for a timely and meaningful
intervention through an investment project.




2
 Letter of Minister of Finance to the World Bank, dated November 10, 2003
3
 USAID, the largest donor in Montenegro, saw a complementary and supportive role for the World Bank as it began to wind down its
efforts and to withdraw its involvement in this sector in 2005.



                                                               3
A window of opportunity presented itself to:
   build on the improved policy environment and strengthen the reforms developed
    under the World Bank’s SAC through needed investments at the institutional level;
   seize the opportunity of Government readiness to address the need for improved
    administrative capacity and modernization of the pension system; and
   ensure that the hard-won reforms at the policy level would not be derailed due to
    lack of support in implementation of the reforms.



1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project development objectives, as defined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
aimed at improving the financial sustainability, effectiveness, and efficiency of the
pension system through:

   a. Developing a unified contribution collection and reporting system and
      establishing central registries that are based on modern information technology
      and processes;
   b. Modernizing and restructuring, as needed, of the organization, processes, and
      technology in the key institutions - that is, the DPR and Fund PIO; and
   c. Developing capacity for better policy design and analysis of the pension system
      and improving readiness for future pension reforms.

The key performance indicators were:
    Modernization and restructuring implementation plans prepared and implemented
      in DPR and Fund PIO, with milestones to measure progress
    Improved compliance as measured by revenue/(average wage*employment)
    Improved effectiveness of administration, measured by stock of arrears/revenues
    Improved efficiency of administration, comparing Montenegro costs/revenues to
      similar sized republics’ average costs/revenues in neighboring countries
    Improved client services, measured by increases in numbers of enquiries received
      and answered
    Reduced burden for employers as measured by fewer requirements and forms for
      processing


1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

There were no changes in the Project Development Objectives (PDOs) during project
implementation.

A revised set of Key Indicators were monitored from the time of the Mid-Term Review
but the project was not formally restructured. The mid-term review occurred four days
after the Montenegro became a member of the World Bank, and the agreements regarding



                                          4
assumption of Montenegro’s obligations on existing loans had not been finalized at that
time.

The PAD contained two sets of indicators: those in the Results Framework and
Monitoring (Annex 3), and a different set in “Arrangements for Monitoring” (also Annex
3). At the time of the Mid-Term Review in January 2007, the clients discussed the Key
Indicators in the PAD with the World Bank team, noting that some were difficult or
impossible to monitor, while others could not be realized or monitored during the life of
the project. The teams, therefore, agreed upon a revised set of indicators (described here
as ISR indicators) and tracked this set through the remaining life of the project. The ICR
uses the ISR indicators to track and describe project’s results. Following the Mid-Term
Review, a broad restructuring of the project was envisaged to encompass changes in the
financing plan and indicators. However, when it was discovered that the financing did
not need to be amended, the restructuring did not take place and the Key Indicators in the
PAD were not formally revised.



1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The two primary target groups of project beneficiaries are taxpayers and pensioners. The
taxpayers - through improved compliance and recordkeeping - would enjoy the benefits
of a more stable pension system which would require no ad-hoc revenue or expenditure
side adjustments in order to maintain its fiscal sustainability. Pensioners would be
serviced by a more responsive, accurate and faster Fund PIO.

The main institutional beneficiary agencies were DPR (for Component 1), Fund PIO (for
Component 2), and MOLSA and Ministry of Finance (MOF) (for Component 3). The
DPR, becoming responsible for collection of wage tax data and revenues, could expect
efficiency gains and an improved control capacity. The Fund PIO would be able to
concentrate on its core functions: recording accrued rights, assessing, maintaining and
paying benefits, as well as controlling eligibility. The MOLSA could manage its labor
market and social transfer programs more effectively by relying on up-to-date business,
contributor and tax registries while MOF, as the agency responsible for short- medium
and long-term fiscal policy and annual budgets, could model expected contribution
revenues and benefit outlays and, consequently, formulate fiscal and pension policies
which meet standards of sustainability, adequacy, equity and transparency.




                                            5
1.5 Original Project Components

Increasing Tax and Contribution Compliance (US$3.6 million)

This component comprised two subcomponents:

Establishment of the Unified Contribution Collection System. This sub-component was
designed to put in place a modern infrastructure to process the flow of data and
contributions from the Fund PIO, the HIF, and the Unemployment Bureau to the DPR. It
was also intended to simplify the procedures for payment filing and declarations,
introduce electronic filing for large taxpayers, and institute both targeted audits and
random audits in lieu of periodic audits.

Development of a Client Data Base and other Information Systems. This sub-
component was to create the client database of individualized records necessary for the
pension system and also to finance the development and implementation of automation
systems and infrastructure for the DPR. The subcomponent's objective was to improve
client services in the DPR as well to make inquiries easier and service faster, to facilitate
working out potential problems in assigning individual records. The client data base
would also support IT infrastructure development for labor market, social assistance,
social welfare, and workplace safety programs under MOLSA, facilitating the delivery,
monitoring and analysis of these programs.

The key activities under this component included:
 Consolidation of contribution collection, control and enforcement functions in DPR.
   Project would provide TA, equipment and training for creating additional capacity in
   DPR and establishing procedures for integration;
 Creating a central registry on tax and contribution payers including central
   registration of new companies, self employed and farmers with data dissemination to
   all involved institutions;
 Creating a central registry on insured individuals and individual taxpayers with a
   central registration feature and data dissemination to all involved institutions;
 Implementing integrated and more frequent reporting on personal income tax and
   social contributions;
 Installation of new accounting and control procedures, and new management
   information systems; and
 Development of individual accounts, and collection and dissemination of individual
   earnings information.

Support under the project also included technical assistance for developing a model for
unifying registration and collections as well as investments in hardware and software for
information system implementation.




                                             6
Restructure and Modernize the Fund PIO (US$2.0 million)

This component envisaged the modernization and restructuring of the Fund PIO, building
on the diagnostic work and restructuring plans done by USAID during a period of over
two years prior to the project. The component was closely related to the previous
(collection and control) component since one if its main objectives was to ensure
compatibility across the new DPR systems and those operated by the Fund PIO as well as
to ascertain that synergies and efficiency gains expected from the project could be
realized.

Restructuring the Fund PIO was designed to:
 Improve the service to contributors by reducing the points of contact for transacting
   business through the introduction of Unified Registration, Unified Data and
   Contribution Collection, Unified Control and Enforcement, all transferred to DPR;
 Improve the service to insured individuals and beneficiaries by accurately
   maintaining a registry of insured individuals and beneficiaries with reconciled
   individual earnings history and benefit payments history;
 Reduce the cost of public administration and eliminate duplicate processes and
   instead focus the agency on its core business processes i.e. data and contribution
   collection (actually outsourced to DPR), eligibility of insured individuals, and
   payment of granted benefits; and
 Implement the recently-enacted Law of pension and disability insurance.

Key Activities under this component included:
 Mapping core business processes needed to implement recently enacted Law of
   Pension and Disability Insurance;
 Designing new PIO organization compliant to mapped core business processes
   eliminating duplicative functions, reducing complexity of reporting and collection
   system and improving services to contributors, insured individuals and beneficiaries;
 Identifying staff positions needed to populate the new organizational structure and
   writing job descriptions for all staff positions (EC);
 Assessing the IT needs required to implement mapped core business processes and to
   support redesigned PIO organization. Develop IT Strategy and Implementation Plan;
 Mapping Unified Data and Contribution Collection in DPR compliant to generally
   accepted Revenue module;
 Mapping Data and Contribution Exchange between DPR and PIO presented in
   Extended Revenue Model i.e. Unified Data and Contribution Collection Model
   (Unified Collection Model);
 Strengthening Analytical Capacity of the PIO i.e. actuarial and budgetary analysis,
   administrative statistics etc.;
 Developing and implementing improved and new Integrated Information System
   required to support mapped core business processes and restructured PIO
   organization;
 Developing training programs to support new business processes and changed
   organizational structure; and



                                           7
   Technical Assistance for improvement of core functions, implementation of structural
    reform, design of new IT system, improvement of analytical capacity etc.


Develop and Strengthen Institutional Capacity for Pension Policy (US$0.6 million)

This component had two subcomponents:

Developing capacity to supervise private pension funds. This sub-component had two
areas where strengthening was most needed:
       (a)      strengthening supervision capacity in the Ministry of Finance; and
       (b)     strengthening pension policy capacity in the Ministry of Labor and Social
               Affairs.

At the time of Project preparation, the NBM was in charge of bank supervision and the
Securities and Exchange Commission regulated privatization (and future investment)
funds. The new draft Law on Insurance, however, envisaged the establishment of an
independent Agency for Insurance Supervision. At the time of the project's inception, the
Insurance Supervision Department in the Ministry of Finance consisted of a very small
staff with limited training, relevant education and equipment. It was this unit which was
envisioned to be the seed of a future independent agency. The subcomponent was
designed to assist the emerging new supervisor and to invest in equipment, TA and
training over the project cycle as well as specialized hardware and software to meet the
new Agency's special requirements.

The same subcomponents proposed to engage consultants to help produce the legal and
supplementary acts needed to regulate and supervise private pension funds. This
subcomponent was to be executed by the Pension Policy Department at the MOLSA and
was expected to result in creating capacity and analytical tools such as a pension model to
analyze and forecast pension policy in the Ministry. In addition to investment needs in
the Department, the project also supported staffing of consultants in the Department via
participating in the recurrent costs. The activities covered included:
    Proposed investment costs for hiring of consultants; and
    Investment in equipment, training, and TA. TA proposed by the team included
     foreign consultants on actuarial modeling, and local consultants on modeling
     macroeconomic, demographic and actuarial processes. TA was expected to result in
     a pension model to be used by the Department, manuals for its operation and trained
     staff to run it. Training budget was provided for two study tours to countries with
     model PAYGO and funded systems, and individual courses on actuarial modeling,
     macroeconomic/pension policy and programming and computer skills.

Public education campaign. Key activities under this sub-component included:
   Broad PR and education campaign that aimed to promote the goals of the pension
    reform in Montenegro, to strengthen public support for the pension reform process,
    including expected additional pillars in the future, and to widen public awareness of



                                            8
        a need to voluntarily save for the retirement. This component was executed by the
        Pension Policy Department at the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs.
       This component was envisaged to be outsourced to a specialized public relations
        (PR) company and it included PR and education consultancy, opinion polls,
        development of PR and education materials and publications, analyzing focus
        groups and campaign outreach, TV and radio time, workshops, lectures, and
        developing tools for individual assessment of the pension reform outcomes.


Project Coordination (US$ 0.3 million)

This component supported the coordination of project activities and involved the hiring
of a local consultant to serve as a Project Coordinator who was also supervised by the
Office of the Deputy Prime Minister for Financial Systems and Public Expenditures
(ODPM).

The beneficiary agencies were responsible for the implementation of the project and for
providing substantive input in. To facilitate the implementation and monitoring of the
project by the implementing agencies, focal points were drawn from each of the named
agencies, and were appointed as members of an expert working group. They worked
with the Project Coordinator and the central Technical Services Unit (TSU) which was
responsible for providing core procurement and financial management services for this
project and all other Bank-financed projects.



1.6 Revised Components

None of the components of the Project was significantly revised during implementation.


1.7 Other significant changes

In terms of design, scope, scale and implementation arrangements, there were no
revisions during project implementation. However, there were two significant changes -
to the duration of the project and to the indicators.

         Changes of the Closing Date. The project was scheduled to close on
          September 30, 2008 but this date had to be revised twice, for a number of reasons.
          First, the country's legal status and administrative arrangements changed as a
          result of independence. Furthermore, as the project proceeded, the technical
          complexity of the contribution administration and central registry components
          became more apparent and required more time for revising both the conceptual
          and technical designs and the implementation plans involved. Progress at Fund
          PIO proved slower than expected and minor procurement issues also contributed
          to the actual disbursement path underperforming the expectations presented in the


                                              9
       PAD. Finally, the resignation of the entire centralized TSU also put a temporary
       halt to project implementation. Considering the above factors, both the client and
       the World Bank felt that adhering to the original project schedule would
       jeopardize the results expected from the project and it was decided, therefore, that
       the client's request of an extension should be granted. Thus the project closing
       date was revised first to March 31, 2010 and later to September 30, 2010.

      Changes of the Monitoring Indicators. As described in Section 1.3, the
       monitoring indicators were revised at Mid-Term Review at the request of the
       client to make them more appropriate for monitoring; however, the project was
       not restructured to reflect the new indicators.



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project was prepared in a fast track mode (the PCN review was on February 9, 2004
and the Project was approved by the Board on June 8, 2004), in response to a request
from the client government. By this time (late 2003) many ECA countries had
implemented pension reforms affecting the underlying paradigms as well as the
parameters of the existing systems. These reforms brought to light administrative
deficiencies and inefficiencies which became particularly visible given the structural
changes of the previous decade, the deteriorating demographic situation and volatile labor
markets. The dominant pattern of pension reforms was (a) to strengthen the link between
career contribution performance, accrued rights and benefits earned, (b) introduce
privately managed, defined contribution pension arrangements to partially replace (2nd
pillar) and to augment (3rd pillar) state pensions. These objectives could only be met if
the administrative framework of the pension system improved, enabling regular cross-
referencing of income tax and contribution data and money flows. These, in turn,
required reliable business and taxpayer registries.

International best practice in the region pointed to the necessity of an improved
coordination among interested agencies or a unified collection infrastructure. Given
economy of scale considerations and regional experience, as well as the Government’s
preferences and the preparatory work already performed by USAID consultants, the
second approach was chosen. It was duly noted at project preparation that creating
unified registry, collection and control/audit systems involves higher risks, including the
need for a very high level of cooperation among institutions, an overhaul of functioning
(although inefficient) systems and unforeseen technical difficulties. These risks were
accepted and were to be mitigated by intensive and supportive project supervision and
openly recognizing from early on that certain deliverables and procedures may need to be
re-considered during implementation.




                                            10
The central design issue concerned integration of the IT and institutional components of
the project. The performance of the administration systems depends on how well their
functional specifications are derived from the business processes they support and how
effectively they are aligned with the software and hardware. The initial project design
assumed very tight sequencing of activities which, due to the delays in implementation,
resulted in systems and the processes they were supposed to support emerging in parallel.

The strongest design features of this project were its quick start (immediately following
the first law on pension reform in 2003, the project became effective on September 8,
2004), its critical contribution to the enactment of the 2005 law, and a sound integration
of the institutional, informatics and organizational elements. The team took into full
account the risks related to political uncertainties and administrative capacity constraints
and sought to mitigate them with an intensive dialogue and supervision schedule.
Stakeholder buy-in was pursued by organizing policy workshops at the outset of the
project.
Even taking fully into consideration the specific context however, the project had to cope
with four constraints: (a) the policy objective of lowering wage taxes and that of creating
fiscal space for a structural pension reform were contradictory in the short run, (b)
legislative work related to the pension reform was incomplete at the time of project
design and could possibly come to a halt, (c) the high degree of governance weaknesses,
and (d) the inexperience of the client in terms of project financial management and the
procurement practices. These risks were mitigated partly by other Bank operations,
partly by an institutionalized, two-tier inter-agency cooperation framework, both of
which maintained a close working relationship with the team, and partly through a
centralized Technical Services Unit (TSU) set up to provide fiduciary support to a
number of the World Bank projects.


2.2 Implementation

The special economic and political context, as well as the involvement of partner
agencies (USAID) must be considered when assessing project implementation. The
project was prepared when Montenegro’s eventual independence was not yet a certainty,
with many government policies and activities hinging on whether and when
independence would arrive. In view of these uncertainties, it is remarkable that the 2005
legislation was formulated, discussed (with the help of Bank-supported workshops), and
enacted. Strong commitment to reforms was also confirmed by the preparation of
Montenegro Social Protection Note in 2004. Two years into project implementation, the
national referendum approved independence for Montenegro. These events had a bearing
on project implementation, however, causing delays.

During the nine months before and in the first few months after the first post-
independence elections, the new government had to focus on constitutional, institutional
and functional issues, resulting in a loss of almost two years for reasons which were not
unexpected but fell outside the World Bank’s control. Along the life of the project, the
government was strongly committed to achieving the project development objectives and


                                            11
significant efforts were made to facilitate communication and cooperation among the
institutions involved. Human capacity constraints at beneficiary institutions also
contributed to falling behind the original implementation schedule. The implementation
was also inversely affected by the tight coordination of reform activities across the major
beneficiary institutions. Besides, significant delays were caused by the resignation of the
Technical Support Unit in 2007 and the need to rehire and re-organize this entity.4
The above factors contributed to a slower-than-expected disbursement and partial
fulfillment of observable indicators, despite the indisputable ownership shown by
government officials and agency managements. Despite these difficulties the operation
was not graded as project at risk due to continuous intense Bank team's efforts. The
project's implementation rating, for an extended period, was moderately unsatisfactory,
but this improved to moderately satisfactory as a result of accelerated commitments (with
regard to component 1) and developments in terms of operational reforms and
restructuring at the Fund PIO.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Although the M&E framework followed the example of other similar Bank projects, the
design of the results monitoring framework was not conducive to monitoring by the client
of the World Bank team. It is expected that a project should establish indicators which
can be readily monitored, clearly attributed to project design and deliverables and capture
information which is relevant to the project development objectives (PDOs). The Results
Framework was confusing in that two sets of indicators were set out – those in the initial
Results Framework and a different set in the Arrangement for Results Monitoring.

Some of the quantitative indicators related to components 2 and 3 were overly ambitious,
with no clear rationale (e.g. 15 staff processing 10,000 forms), while the client reported
others not to be making sense given their accounting practices (e.g. the legal requirement
for balanced budget disables monitoring of actual/budgeted financial indicators). Some
of the indicators related to Component 1 were designed in such a way as to make direct
attribution to the project’s activities difficult. Improved compliance5, for instance, is an
indicator which needs a sophisticated measurement method if it is to be separated from
factors other than the project’s results: Montenegro's economy saw high growth, lowered
unemployment, growing labor participation rates which in themselves contributed greatly
to improved revenues and compliance, and when the economy got affected with the
global crisis, that, too, affected the revenues collection. The same can be said of the
contribution rate cut which might have increased compliance (and may have improved
competitiveness). Similarly, the payment of contribution arrears6 is a reflection of many
factors, the project's achievements being only a part of them. Measuring project results
against such benchmarks may, therefore, be distortive.


4
  The team resignation of the entire TSU, due to their failed attempt to negotiate high increase in their consultancy fees, caused delays
in implementation of all the projects the TSU was servicing.
5
  Fulfillment of legal obligation to pay pension contributions.
6
  Overdue unpaid obligations for pension contributions.



                                                                   12
It must be emphasized that the choice of outcome indicators, rather than output indicators
made it impossible to measure results within the project’s lifetime; outcome indicators
will only be assessed two years after the closure of the project. Alternatively, the project
would have to be extended for two years after the deliverables and systems have been
installed and made operational in order to assess the outcome indicators. Output
indicators would have been more measureable.

At the time of the Mid-Term Review in January 2007, the clients discussed the Results
Monitoring Framework with the World Bank team, noting that some were difficult or
impossible to monitor, while others could not be realized or monitored during the life of
the project. The teams, therefore, agreed upon a new set of indicators (described here as
ISR indicators) and tracked this new set through the remaining life of the project in
Implementation Status Reports (ISRs). Data was collected regularly and reported to the
team7. Beyond the relative ease of monitoring, the following arguments supported the
modification of the indicators:

Original indicator:                  Predictability improved measured by budgeted/actual revenues.
Revised indicator:                   Improved financial solvency of the pension system.

The revised indicator is more measureable than the original one. At the same time,
revenues capture only a portion of solvency - indeed, the Montenegrin system's financial
problems stemmed from overly generous indexation and pension assessment rules.

Original indicator:                   Effectiveness of administration improved measured by stock of
                                     arrears/revenues
Revised indicator:                   Improve effectiveness and efficiency in administration of social
                                     contributions and pension benefits due to new systems and
                                     modernized business processes in the DPR and the Fund PIO

The original indicator relied on the tentative relationship between administration and the
stock of arrears accumulated prior to the administrative reform. The revised indicator
maintained the revenue indicator but also two further indicators: modernized business
processes and improved service quality as experienced by beneficiaries.

Original indicator:                  Actuarial projections and policy actions taken for future reforms
                                     do not require foreign consultants
Revised indicator:                   Capacities for better pension system analysis and policy design
                                     developed and readiness for future pension reforms improved.

The revision was primarily a matter of wording, although the revised indicator is a
broader concept than the original one.



7
    However, the project was not restructured to reflect this change in the indicators being used to track and describe the project’s results.




                                                                      13
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The design of the fiduciary arrangements was deemed less than fully adequate by a
Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP) review (August, 2008). PSAIP was
one of the first World Bank projects in Montenegro and, at the time of project design,
there were no people in the country with experience of the World Bank project
management.

To mitigate this constraint, the staff recruited to the Technical Services Unit (TSU)
received considerable TA support and training, both during preparation and during
implementation of the Project. Also, an international adviser was engaged (under the
Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant and later continued under the
Health Systems Improvement Project (HSIP) to provide training to the TSU staff.

As a result of the team's and the implementing agencies' efforts, no financial management
issues emerged during implementation and the standards followed were satisfactory
regarding accounting, reporting, funds flow, special account, and external audit.

In order to ensure strict adherence to financial management (FM) procedures, a manual
was produced and its application was regularly checked by the World Bank team. No
arrangements were established for internal control and internal audit, despite the fact the
country FM evaluation found internal controls weak. The World Bank team repeatedly
emphasized the importance of such reporting and control mechanisms to the government
in general and the implementing agencies in particular.

There were several instances of problems with procurement (i.e. poor quality of
procurement documents and processes, alleged attempts to award the contracts to bidders
that were not best qualified, etc.) that resulted in the need to repeat the entire procurement
processes. Both the Government and the World Bank team worked jointly in resolving
these instances and building capacities of the TSU and the evaluation committee
members to reduce the risk of repeated procurement problems.

The most important problem with the fiduciary arrangements, however, was related to the
sudden resignation of the entire TSU team8. Given the TSU’s central role in providing
fiduciary support to a number of the World Bank projects, this resignation was one of the
key reasons causing the delays in project implementation in the later stage of the project.

There were no issues with environmental and social safeguards.




8
 The entire team of consultants working in the Technical Service Unit, established to provide fiduciary support to a number of the
World Bank project, resigned following failed attempt to negotiate with the Minister of Finance higher consultancy fees for their
engagement. The resignation was unexpected and it caused difficulties in implementation of all the projects the TSU was providing
services to.




                                                                14
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

There is no dedicated follow-up operation planned either by the Government or the
World Bank. Since the technically most demanding output - the unified collection
gateway - has been completed recently and it has not yet become fully functional (other
than test runs), the Government will need to monitor its performance and may need to
devote additional resources to adjust the hardware, software and process alike.

In terms of components 2 and 3, in order to fully benefit from the accomplishments, the
Government will need to consider how could some of the outputs of these components -
pension modeling capacity at MOLSA, and improved pension scheme supervision
capacity - be better incorporated into policymaking and utilized in the system’s
operations.



3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Satisfactory

The inter-related objectives of fiscal sustainability and administrative efficiency of a
pension system are crucial in order to serve the long-term policy objectives of old age
income adequacy and equity. In small, open economies, like Montenegro, fiscal
prudence is particularly important since the pool of public revenues, which can be turned
to augmenting insufficient pension contributions, is limited. The project aimed at helping
to reform the pension paradigm, attributing greater roles to life-time contribution
intensity and privately managed pension schemes.

The project also assisted in building quantitative analytical capacity at MOF and MOLSA
to monitor, maintain and, if necessary, change pension policy and to assess the long-term
effect of legal changes on the system's sustainability. These policy-related objectives
were necessary, timely, well-designed in light of the political and institutional constraints
described earlier, and served the country's priorities. They also followed what was and is
still recognized as best regional practice in terms of policy content and policymaking
support.

The most important contribution that the project sought was modernization of the
administration of contributions which was only achievable within the framework of a
broader social contribution/personal income tax reform. This objective was probably
overly ambitious and entailed a high risk of partial completion (especially since, ideally,
this kind of reform should include at least a full tax-year of parallel operation and testing,
and additional time to correct inevitable errors). The team attempted to address the entire
reform, based on the already existing design and the government's commitment with a
project. The alternative would have been either to postpone the operation (thereby
jeopardizing client’s buy-in), or only include a smaller, simpler component of the overall



                                             15
contribution administration reform agenda. This latter approach would have come at a
high risk of the reform remaining incomplete. Thus, the design responded to the special
needs of the country at that juncture in time and the team took an informed risk by
pursuing the project in its current form.

Overall, the time and design of the project – including its objectives, components and size
- were fully appropriate for the Montenegrin circumstances. The timing and sequencing
of project activities were also adequately assessed. The implementation of the project,
however, had to be extended for two years due primarily to factors external to the project
(e.g. independence of Montenegro).



3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The primary objective of the project was to improve the financial sustainability,
effectiveness, and efficiency of the pension system. These overarching objectives were
to be achieved through: (a) developing a unified contribution collection and reporting
system and establishing central registries that are based on modern information
technology and processes; (b) modernization and restructuring, as needed, of the
organization, processes, and technology in the key institutions of the pension system: the
DPR and the Fund PIO; (c) developing capacity for better policy design and analysis of
the pension system and improving readiness for future pension reforms. Box 1 provides
more details on the achievements and their objectives.

The overall rating for the achievement of the PDOs of Moderately Satisfactory is based
on the following. The central reporting system is fully operational and it has contributed
to improvements in the administrative efficiency of the system, thus this component is
satisfactory. The integrated contribution collection system is also fully functional (since
February 2011), however it is still too early for the assessment of its impact, therefore the
rating of this component is moderately satisfactory. The modernization and restructuring
of the organization, processes, and technology in the Fund PIO resulted in a reduction of
the Fund PIO’s administrative costs while improving the service to the beneficiaries, so
this component is assessed as satisfactory. While the capacity for better policy design
and analysis of the pension system and improving readiness for future pension reforms
has been developed, its use for planning purposes remains limited, thus this component is
marginally satisfactory. Similarly, while fully accomplished, the development of private
pension supervision capacity has lost much of its relevance as a result of a policy reversal
and could therefore only be rated marginally satisfactory. These achievements are
described in further detail below.




                                             16
Box 1 - Efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability

The developments supported by the project were designed to improve sustainability,
efficiency and effectiveness in the following manner. A unified contribution collection
and reporting system realizes two sets of synergies: on one hand, the administration of
tax and contribution returns, the cross-referencing of taxable income data, and the
treatment of contributions arrears in the same way as tax arrears, improves administrative
efficiency and lowers the cost of collection and enforcement per unit of public revenue.
Improved efficiency is crucial to better effectiveness - that is, meeting the original
objective of the pension system of providing to all citizens an adequate pension based on
a contribution history commensurate with the benefit received. The pension system had
room for improvement both in terms of ensuring full de facto coverage and the level of
contribution liable income reported. In the case of a contributory pension system (such
as the Montenegrin system), the way to improve effectiveness is through efficient
registration and contribution collection. (The social policy objectives of the pension
system, in theory, could be met via channeling more resources to the system from general
revenues but that was deemed detrimental to fiscal sustainability and irreconcilable with
the principles of a traditional social security arrangement.)

The fiscal sustainability of the pension system hinges on following responsible benefit
policies – in terms of effective retirement ages and disability regulations, benefit
formulae and indexation - and an efficient revenue collection system. In terms of benefit
rules, the Bank advised the Government through workshops, conferences and in the
course of supervision missions of the changes necessary. While changing benefit rules is
technically easy, but politically complicated, the focus of the assistance provided by the
project was on revenue side measures, which are technically demanding.

The unified collection and registration system, by improving both the capacity to collect
more contributions on the basis of higher reported wages from more insurees, as well as
contributions realized, contributed to the system's long term sustainability.

The main objective of modernizing PIO’s business processes was to improve the
quality of service experienced by beneficiaries, including new retirees, without increasing
operating expenses and, whenever possible, coupled with streamlining operations.
Quality of service translates, in this case, into processing times and error-free benefit
assessments. This development objective has been achieved as witnessed by the shorter
response times.

Fiscal pressures related to aging and system dependency ratios as well as revisions of the
role of the state in providing pensions may lead to structural and paradigmatic reforms.
The objective of a pension reform is to make the new system more sustainable -both in a
fiscal and a social policy sense. Pension rules need to be carefully calibrated and
calculated which requires a quantitative model. The pension policy capacity building
component was crucial in enabling policymakers to design effective pension reforms,
that is, reforms which serve the objective of fiscal sustainability and social adequacy.


                                             17
The system of centralized registration of tax and contribution payers was completed in
early 2010. The system is fully functional, providing up-to-date information to client
organizations (PIO, HIF, Tax Department) all of which expressed their satisfaction with
the registry.

The design and implementation of the Unified Collection Gateway (UCG) - the system
whereby contributors/tax payers submit a single tax/contribution return and make one
batch payment which is then divided among various agencies - suffered from delays due
to a number of factors, including poor communication and cooperation among interested
agencies. Despite the initial problems in implementation, this subcomponent was also
completed by project closing, but it has just become operational: the first contributions to
be reported and paid using the new system are those of February 2011. While it is
assumed, on the basis of discussions with Government officials, that the system will work
well, the outcome expected has only recently been achieved, and therefore compliance is
difficult to assess. This is partly due to the delays. If the new system was already
operational one or two years ago (as initially planned), the benefits of improved
collection and compliance might have started to emerge by the end of the project. While
the design of the project was both relevant, it is questionable, , whether -in terms of
indicators- it was realistic to assume that contribution compliance would measurably
change as a result of the project and in a manner visible during implementation. Based
on the available information, the outputs provided by the project contributed to
establishing the UCG, but the outcome as defined by the Project Appraisal Document
will need at least two more years before becoming observable.9

The Fund PIO did a major restructuring and re-design of its internal procedures and, as a
result, it has reduced its administrative costs while improving the service – it is now able
to service new applicants and retirees within a 3-5 business days of receiving an
application, or a new rule or benefit index becoming effective. The Fund PIO also
provided all data to the Tax Department to render the central registry operational. It must
be noted however, that in the initial stage of project life, the Fund PIO lacked technical
knowledge to manage TA providers and to maximize the use of their inputs. As a result,
the initial efficiency of using Project resources for the purposes of this outcome was less
than ideal, but this was rectified by the end of the project.

Under component 3, a pension model was developed by a consultant and MOLSA staff
was subsequently trained in its use. The model is capable of projecting expenditure and
revenue levels and can be used to analyze the expected fiscal (but not the distributional)
impact of planned policy changes. The intended use of the model was twofold: first, to
help in the design of a structural pension reform and second, to help formulate


9
 It must be noted that there was a marked increase in contribution revenues over the past four years - this had little to do with the
Project, though, since the UCG was not yet completed: the fiscal improvements were the result of economic growth, employment and
wage dynamics. Also, the actual increase, although significant, is still lower than the original target value.




                                                                 18
responsible medium and long-term fiscal policies. Deteriorating fiscal circumstances and
the difficulties presented by an underdeveloped financial market removed the structural
pension reform (partial replacement of the state pension system with privately managed
pension schemes) from the policy agenda. With its importance to immediate
policymaking reduced, the Government seems to have lost interest in the pension model.
Thus, although the capacity to project pension finances has been created, and the project
outcome is achieved, the Government has relied on this instrument only once. The unit
operating the model has limited capacity to improve or update it, and unless the
Government uses it more intensely, there is a danger of the model losing its relevance.

Supervision of a private pension industry is a high fixed-cost undertaking where building
up human capacity and technical infrastructure is necessary regardless of the size of the
industry. In Montenegro, the original reform agenda was to introduce voluntary pension
schemes (3rd pillar) first, and to later mandate participation in private pension schemes
(2nd pillar). The plan to develop regulatory and supervisory capacity reflected this plan.
Eventually, the structural reform didn't happen and the enabling conditions to a thriving
3rd pillar (most importantly: tax advantages, supply of diversified securities and trust in
domestic financial markets) are largely missing. As a result, Montenegro's private
pension industry comprises two voluntary schemes neither of which is large enough to
warrant survival on the long run without revised policy framework. The pension
supervision capacity of and the regulations issued by the Securities Commission would
be insufficient to ensure the efficient and transparent operation of a reasonably sized
pension industry.

While being a strong foundation for the improvements in the fiscal sustainability,
administrative efficiency and effectiveness of the pension system and development of
intellectual capacities for pension policy analysis, the achievements of the project that
were described above did not, however, fully meet all targeted values of result indicators.
While this can probably partially be due to the overly optimistic expectations regarding
the indicators, it contributed to the PDO achievement rating being moderately satisfactory.



3.3 Efficiency

The Project Appraisal Document did not include economic and financial analysis of the
project. As presented in the Box 1 (above), the primary financial, quantifiable benefit -
an increase in contribution revenues attributable to the Project - has not yet been realized
due to significant delays in implementation, and the fact that changes in contribution
compliance that could be attributed to the project will only be measurable once the new
system is fully operational (and even then, it would take some time to make credible
assessment regarding the performance of the new system).




                                            19
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Project was and remains highly relevant. Although it was an operation supporting
the pension system, it also aimed at initiating a tax administration reform. At the time of
design and most of the implementation, the country's administrative systems were facing
the need to adapt to the new circumstances of a smaller, independent state. It was the
right time to initiate a major modernization effort in tax and contribution administration,
the operations of the state pension system and building pension policymaking and
supervision capacity. These objectives were relevant, timely and responded to a unique
window of opportunity. Most of the risks identified in the PAD presented themselves, to
some extent, during implementation and prevented the project from achieving all
objectives in a timely manner.

The overall outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory is based on the following. The
central contributor registry is fully operational and functions as originally intended. This
subcomponent therefore is rated as fully satisfactory. The Unified Collection Gateway is
also ready and tested, and it has become operational in February – but it is still too early
for the assessment of its impact, therefore the rating of this component is moderately
satisfactory. The modernization of the Fund PIO operations and procedures is
satisfactory as the intended technological/IT developments were realized, although with
fewer organizational changes than expected. Policymaking capacity has improved by
developing a pension model, but the Government uses it only in a limited way in fiscal
planning. In this respect, it should be noted that the project team intensively consulted the
Government on the potential uses of the pension model. The fact that while an
operational pension model has been developed and transferred, it is only sporadically
used by the Government is explained not so much by the quality of the product but by
time it takes to institutionalize new decision-making processes. Influencing the
policymaking process and, especially, the interplay between the technical preparatory
work and legislative interest reconciliation is an objective technical assistance projects
are not equipped. Since the ultimate objective of incorporating quantitative modeling into
the decision-making process has been only partially met, this component can only be
rated as moderately satisfactory. The objective of developing private pension supervision
capacity has lost much of its relevance as a result of a policy reversal and could therefore
not be expected to achieve its objectives. It must be noted, however, that -as is often the
case with such reversals- it was not a clear-cut decision made early on but, rather, a
protracted realization that the fiscal room to support the reform would be eroded by the
financial crisis. Until the decision not to create a mandatory pension pillar or to support
with financial incentives the growth of the voluntary pension industry is made, it would
be premature to restructure the project and cancel this subcomponent. It must also be
noted that as the policy to restructure the pension system took shape, the Government
devoted fewer resources to the development of supervisions capacity. Since the project's
objective was to support the Government's own efforts - but to not to fully replace them -
the project alone could not create a fully fledged supervisory agency. The rating is also
affected by the fact that the targeted values of result indicators have not been fully met.




                                             20
While this can probably partially be attributed to overly optimistic expectations regarding
the indicators, it resulted in the overall outcome rating being moderately satisfactory.



3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project was not intended to address poverty, gender or social development issues
directly. The project, at the same time, was crucial in creating the administrative and
fiscal conditions for improving the effectiveness and fiscal sustainability of the social
insurance scheme which could, indirectly, have implications to the old-age poverty .

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The main objectives of the Project were institutional strengthening and modernization.
These objectives have been mostly achieved, although the sustainability of pension
policymaking capacity and the quality of private pension supervision remains uncertain.
The Fund PIO is able to perform its core functions faster, more reliably and transparently
than before the project. The IT infrastructure and operational procedures have improved
and allow for real-time interchange of data and the reliance on a unified registration and
collection system. These are crucial preconditions for better compliance and more
effective enforcement which, ultimately, contribute to the rule of law, the emergence of a
taxpayer mentality and more sustainable public finances.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
At the outset and early phases of implementation, the Montenegrin beneficiary agencies
were still following the earlier practices established during the decades of Yugoslavia and
the union state of Serbia and Montenegro. The institutions were vertically integrated into
their respective federal or union organization which operated a different internal division
of labor and maintained inter-agency relations at a centralized and higher level. When
independence came, institutional independence and the careful maintenance of parochial
interests permeated the client agencies. The project contributed significantly to a change
in this approach.

One of the most important benefits of the Project is that it fostered an understanding of
the need to cooperate and to integrate existing systems in order to increase collection
efficiency, improve the quality of client service and inter-operability of databases. The
Project, by forcing the client agencies to cooperate on implementation issues, helped to
build a better cooperation among agencies and an understanding of the goals and
constraints under which these entities operate.




                                            21
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Overall, the main objectives of the Project appear sustainable. The outputs of
Component 1 and 2 will need continuing attention, maintenance and upkeep, as with all
systems with a heavy IT content, but discussions with Government officials indicated a
continuing commitment to maintaining the system's quality and reliability. In this respect,
the only important risk identified was the relative lack of highly trained IT staff in the
country in general, which may make it difficult for public entities to retain expertise.

There are substantial risks to the Project's development objectives under Component 3,
partly as a result of a policy reversal with regard to structural pension reform, and also for
a lack of clearly defined objectives for the pension modeling unit. These risks emerged
not so much as a result of design or implementation shortcomings but because of the
changing policy priorities and fiscal circumstances.

The moderate rating reflects a balance between low risk to the development objective
in Components 1 and 2, but substantial risk under Component 3.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Project was very ambitious, especially in light of the special circumstances of the
country. It reflected international best practice both in terms of the policies supported
and the administrative developments sought, but the design was also influenced by the
mounting needs of the country which meant that there was no guarantee of a series of
lending operations - thus, it was felt that the Project would have to address as many of the
pension issues as may logically fit into a single operation.

The strongest design features of this project were its timeliness (immediately following
the first law on pension reform in 2003), its contribution to the enactment of the 2005
pension reform law, and sound integration of the institutional, informatics and
organizational elements. Both the preparation and, later, the implementation of the
project were characterized by intense dialogue and collaboration between the
Government and the World Bank team. However, the tight schedule used for project
preparation resulted in a few shortcomings in project design.

Two key shortcomings were identified by the ICR team. First, the development
outcomes and indicators should have been better developed to be more directly linked to
the activities supported by the Project. It would have also made the measuring borrower
performance easier and could have helped in identifying the sources of problems
potentially leading to delays. The other issue is insufficient stakeholder analyses and its
consequences in the division of labor and responsibilities. Experience with similar


                                             22
projects suggests that even a marginal re-arrangement of responsibilities, resources, goals
and means across revenue collecting and spending agencies can lead to friction which can
jeopardize the success of a project. Tax departments and pension insurance agencies and
health insurance funds are difficult to bring to a common understanding and to convince
to give up part of their remit. It is therefore crucial that an entity (possibly a government
plenipotentiary, deputy minister, etc.) is given formal powers to help foster institutional
cooperation when natural instincts would dictate otherwise. The institutionally most
difficult activities of PSAIP only gathered pace during the later part of implementation,
when the minister of finance brought agency managers together and made sure that
particular interests do not derail the project. If a similar arrangement had been in place
from the outset, the implementation of the Project would not have suffered delays.


(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Discussions with clients involved with the project revealed a high level of
professionalism on the World Bank team's side. The World Bank team was diligent in
attending to potentially risky issues such as inadequate internal controls and non-
compliance of the TSU with external covenants; and in procurement an emerging
problem was promptly dealt with, while it was at the same time addressed cleanly by
persuading the Government to restart the bidding process. These ongoing practical
problems caused a really intensified supervision schedule, with the task team making
unusually frequent visits to Montenegro. Supervision was focused both on details and
strategic and longer-term sustainability issues.

One issue which emerged during the review of project documents was that ISRs did not
reflect the intensity and quality of actual supervision efforts. In particular, the ISRs and
AMs do not fully convey the extent to which the World Bank supervision was involved
in the more substantive aspects of supervising the project that was expressed during the
discussions with the clients. The primary reason for this is practical – in line with the
agreement with the Country Unit, during the challenging periods of implementation, the
team made brief and very frequent (sometimes weekly) visits to ensure that the agreed
activities remain on track, however an ISR was not filed for each such visit. Instead,
ISRs were filed according to a normal semi-annual schedule and do not fully reflect the
intense supervision effort.

As discussed above, at the Mid-Term Review the World Bank team responded to the
clients’ concerns regarding the PAD indicators (the clients noted that some were difficult
or impossible to monitor, while others could not be realized or monitored during the life
of the project), and the teams agreed upon a new set of indicators. The target values were
set and the new indicators were regularly monitored through the remaining life of the
project. A broad restructuring of the project was envisaged to encompass changes in the
financing plan and indicators. However, when it was discovered that the financing did
not need to be amended, the restructuring did not take place and the indicators were not
formally revised.



                                             23
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Project had certain design weaknesses, mostly related to M&E and the incorporation
of a detailed stakeholder analysis into the implementation framework. These weaknesses
were by no means specific to this Project however, and could only be addressed through
investing significantly more time into project preparation which, in turn, could have
jeopardized client support for the operation. The World Bank team guided and
supervised the project with an unusual intensity and attention and also managed to build a
strong rapport with policymakers and beneficiary institutions. This, eventually, ensured
that those objectives of the project which fit in with the Government's policy agenda
along the project's lifespan, were realized. This is a remarkable achievement, especially
given that the project implementation period coincided with the declaration of
Montenegro’s independence and comprehensive State-building reform efforts.
Throughout all the changes, however, the vision of the pension system reform did not
change and project commitment remained.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Project enjoyed the Government's and, particularly, the MOF's consistent support.
Government officials remained readily available for consultation along the
implementation horizon and, if necessary, intervened to promote inter-agency
cooperation. The Government had, from the outset, a precise understanding of the goals
and means of the operation and made available the resources committed to the Project.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The experience with implementing agencies was somewhat mixed.                    In the
subcomponents where little interagency cooperation was needed, progress was as planned.
In components where progress depended on cooperation among a number of institutions,
the implementation was initially slow. The Project coordination mechanism did not
always seem effective in addressing technical and institutional issues and, as a result,
much of the problem-solving had to rely on the World Bank team's intervention.
Interagency cooperation eventually improved, and ensured successful finalization of
project tasks. At the outset, very limited experience with Bank operations, procurement
and financial management existed, which also contributed to slow procurement and
disbursement. Additional delays were also caused by the group resignation of the entire
TSU.




                                           24
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the borrower demonstrated commitment to the objectives and means of the
project. The covenants of the Development Credit Agreement, the procurement and
financial management rules of the project were typically adhered to. Government
officials devoted sufficient time and attention to the project, supervision visits and
reviews. At the same time, the need for interagency coordination and time that was
needed to ensure it, caused delays in implementation, resulting in a situation whereby one
of the main outputs of the project -the UCG - is ready, but not yet operational despite two
project extensions.


6. Lessons Learned

The Project provides a set of lessons for future operations, both in terms of design
features and implementation arrangements.

In terms of design, it is important to assess carefully whether the reform of a state
pension provider is the right framework for a partial tax administration reform or, perhaps,
the two reforms should follow one another. In the case of Montenegro, the two reforms
were implemented in parallel, which caused slower implementation of both at times, but
resulted in well coordinated systems.

Second, if a particular subcomponent provides a technical instrument for the rigorous
analysis of a particular system (such as the pension model in this project), it is worth
devoting resources to education of government agencies and officials about the potential
other uses of the technology applied. In this case, for instance, the underlying
methodology of the pension model could be relatively easily extended so that the model
is applicable to projections concerning other status-dependent social expenditures, too.
Thus, if the main objective supported by the instrument (structural pension reform) exits
the policy agenda, the investment itself would face a smaller risk of becoming irrelevant.

Third, a stakeholder analysis of the participating institutions is crucial in order to identify
potential reasons for support and resistance, the areas where cooperation is natural and
where it needs more attention from high level officials in a position to resolve
institutional problems.

Fourth, it is critical to have a clear results framework with specific, monitorable
indicators for which data can be gathered and which can be monitored through the life of
the project. Discussions with the client as to what is monitorable, who will collect data,
when etc. should be conducted prior to finalizing the documentation. Without a clear
monitoring framework, the successes of the project may go unrecorded, or lack of
progress may not be detected.




                                              25
In terms of implementation, the importance of project coordination cannot be
overemphasized. If a project has technically demanding deliverables, it is important that
the project coordinating unit or individual understands the issues and is willing to get
involved in the details. For reasons of capacity constraints and scale economies, PSAIP
shared a technical support unit (TSU) with other Bank operations while it has its own
dedicated project coordinator. This arrangement may have had its benefits, but also its
drawbacks insofar as the project coordinator could not be, and was not, involved in the
daily activities of the TSU. A separate project coordination/management unit headed by
a project coordinator may have served the project's purposes better. Last, as long as the
World Bank wishes to assist in tax administration, payment system and other such
reforms which involve re-designing large IT infrastructures, project teams will need to
have continuous access to IT specialists with relevant international practice.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers
N/a

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/a




                                           26
Attachment 1. Results Framework

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

PDO                           PAD Outcome                  ISR Indicator               ISR Baseline              ISR Original               ISR Actual              Assessment
                               Indicator10                                                                          Target                    Value                     of
                                                                                                                                                                    completion
Reduce pension             Predictability                Improved
deficit as                 improved                      financial
projected under            measured by                   solvency of the
the model                  budgeted/actual               pension system                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                         Euro 140.64
                           revenues                      (measured by               Euro 106 million Euro 152 million
                                                                                                                                         million
                                                         actual pension
                           Increases in # of             contribution
                           participating                 revenues)
                           contributors
                                                                        06/08/2004         09/30/2008          09/30/2010
Comments                   Info source was MLSC, based on the Fund PIO data. The value at completion represents actual
(incl. %                   pension contribution revenues for the first 8 months of 2010. The team has requested the data by
achievement)               the client on the total contributions that have been collected by the end of 2010, but these data
                           have not yet been received. Based, however, on the amount collected in the first 8 months of the
                           year, we assume that the actual value has been reached by the end of the year. This is a


10
   The outcome indicators shown in this column are those from the Results Framework and Monitoring (Annex 3) in the PAD. A different set of indicators were set out in
“Arrangements for Monitoring” (also Annex 3) in the PAD. At the time of the Mid-Term Review in January 2007, the clients discussed the PAD indicators with the World Bank
team, noting that some were difficult or impossible to monitor, while others could not be realized or monitored during the life of the project. The teams, therefore, agreed upon a
new set of indicators (described here as ISR indicators) and tracked this new set through the remaining life of the project. A broad restructuring of the project was envisaged to
encompass changes in the financing plan and indicators. However, when it was discovered that the financing did not need to be amended, the restructuring did not take place and
the PAD indicators were not formally revised. The ICR uses the ISR indicators to track and describe project’s results.




                                                                                        27
PDO                   PAD Outcome         ISR Indicator       ISR Baseline       ISR Original       ISR Actual       Assessment
                       Indicator10                                                  Target            Value              of
                                                                                                                     completion
                    remarkable achievement given that the overall collection of contributions has been negatively
                    affected by the global financial crisis.
Improve             Effectiveness of        Improve
effectiveness and   administration          effectiveness and
efficiency in       improved                efficiency in                           The systems are The systems are
administration      measured by stock administration of                             fully            operational. The MS
of social           of arrears/revenues social                   Unified            operational.     unified
contributions                               contributions and contribution                           registration
                                            pension benefits     collection                          module is fully
                                            due to new           system and                          operational,
                                            systems and          central registries                  while the unified
                                            modernized           do not exist.                       collection and
                                            business                                                 payment module
                                            processes in the                                         is being tested.
                                            DPR and the
                                            Fund PIO
                                                                 06/08/2004         09/30/2008       09/30/2010
Comments            In spite the delays in implementation the systems have been fully finalized. According to the
(incl. %            information we received during the preparation of the ICR, they have become fully operational in
achievement)        February 2011.
Efficiency of       Modernization and Although this has not been included in the ISR indicators, the modernization
administration      restructuring of        and restructuring of both the Fund PIO and the DPR have been proceeding
improved            Fund PIO and DPR successfully and some duplicative functions have been removed.
comparing           proceeds as
Montenegrin         planned
administration
measured by         Duplicative
cost/revenues to    functions such as



                                                               28
PDO                  PAD Outcome          ISR Indicator       ISR Baseline       ISR Original        ISR Actual       Assessment
                      Indicator10                                                   Target             Value              of
                                                                                                                      completion
republics of       data archiving and
similar size in    enforcement across
the region         agencies are
                   removed
Develop capacity   Actuarial            Capacities for                          Pension model           Pension model
for improved       projections and      better pension                          developed and           developed and
quality of         policy actions       system analysis                         staff using it for      transferred to
pension reforms    taken for future     and policy design       No pension      pension policy          MLSP staff. The MS
and design of      reforms do not       developed and           model existing. analysis                model is only
policies           require foreign      readiness for                                                   used
                   consultants          future pension                                                  sporadically by
                                        reforms improved                                                Government.
                                                                06/08/2004          09/30/2008          09/30/2010
Comments           The target value has been met (thus the rating here is S), although the use of the modeling
(incl. %           capacities for the identification of possible pension policy options is rather limited (resulting in
achievement)       MS in overall outcome ratings).
Improved           Number of              Different indicators were used for measurement of improved services for the
services for       forms/requirements clients. They are listed among intermediate outcome indicators.
clients            is reduced from 20
                   to 3

                   Client services
                   improved as
                   measured by
                   increases in
                   number of
                   enquiries received
                   and time taken to



                                                               29
PDO                  PAD Outcome          ISR Indicator       ISR Baseline        ISR Original        ISR Actual         Assessment
                      Indicator10                                                    Target             Value                of
                                                                                                                         completion
                   answer these

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

PAD                ISR Indicator                        Baseline             Original Target     Actual Value        Assessment of
Intermediate                                                                                                         completion
Results
Increased          Improved collection and
contributions      compliance of pension
                                                                                                 Euro 140.64
and compliance     contributions measured by total      Euro 106 million     Euro 152 million
                                                                                                 million
                   pension contribution revenue                                                                      S

                                                           06/08/2004           09/30/2008          09/30/2010
Comments           Info source was MLSC, based on the Fund PIO data. The value at completion represents actual
(incl. %           pension contribution revenues for the first 8 months of 2010. The team has requested the data
achievement)       by the client on the total contributions that have been collected by the end of 2010, but these
                   data have not yet been received. Based, however, on the amount collected in the first 8 months
                   of the year, we assume that the actual value has been reached by the end of the year. This is a
                   remarkable achievement given that the overall collection of contributions has been affected by
                   the global financial crisis.
Improved           Improved administrative capacity        Time required for 1-2 days               1-2 days for
services to        of the DPR measured by reduced          registration                             registration
clients, both      time required for registration          processing in the                        processing
contributors and   processing                              DPR - 5 days                                              S
beneficiaries                                                                   09/30/2008
                                                           06/08/2004                               09/30/2010
Comments           Confirms Project's expectations.
(incl. %



                                                                30
PAD                ISR Indicator                         Baseline             Original Target      Actual Value         Assessment of
Intermediate                                                                                                            completion
Results
achievement)
Unified            This was not measured in the ISR, but central registries on insured individuals, based on unique
collection and     identification number, have been established.
registration
established
Fund PIO           This was not measured in the ISR, but the core processes and functions for Fund PIO have been
focused on core    adopted and implemented, and duplicative functions were phased out
functions as
envisaged under
new law
Improved           Improved administrative capacities                          91% of pension       79% of pension
                                                         85% of pension
services to        of the Fund PIO measured by                                 benefits             benefits
                                                         benefits
clients, both      reduced time required for pension                           processed within processed within
                                                         processed within
contributors and   benefit application processing                              60 days; of this,    60 days; of this,   MU
                                                         60 days; 56%
beneficiaries                                                                  65% within 15        59% within 15
                                                         within 15 days
                                                                               days                 days
                                                          06/08/2004           09/30/2008           09/30/2010
Comments           In spite of the new processes, the data indicates that the % of pension benefits processed within
(incl. %           60 days has decreased compared to the baseline. The % of applications that are processed
achievement)       within 15 days has increased compared to the baseline, but it is still somewhat lower than the
                   target value.
                   Increased public awareness of the                           70% of the           62% of
                   pension system                                              population           population
                                                          No data              familiar with the familiar with
                                                                               basics of the        basics of pension   MS
                                                                               pension system       system reform
                                                          06/08/2004           09/30/2008           09/30/2010




                                                                 31
PAD                ISR Indicator                        Baseline             Original Target     Actual Value         Assessment of
Intermediate                                                                                                          completion
Results
Comments           Although the target value expectations have not been reached, the public education efforts
(incl. %           undertaken with the support of the Project have contributed to a significant increase of the
achievement)       public knowledge of the pension system.
Future pension     Actuarial model of MN pension                               Fully functional      Pension model
reform design      system developed and staff trained                          pension model         developed, owned
including          in using it                                                 that is owned and and occasionally
                                                           There was no
actuarial                                                                      prepared by the       used by            MS
                                                           model and no
projections done                                                               MN authorities;       Montenegrin
                                                           staff trained
by key                                                                         12 staff members authorities; no
government                                                                     trained in using it clear linkage to
agencies                                                                                             policy decisions.
                                                           06/08/2004          09/30/2008            09/30/2010
Comments           The target value has been met (thus the rating here is S), although the use of the modeling
(incl. %           capacities for the identification of possible pension policy options is rather limited (resulting in
achievement)       MS in overall outcome ratings).
                   Capacity for supervising private                            6 staff members       7 staff members
                                                           No staff exists for
                   pension funds developed and                                 of SEC trained in of SEC trained in
                                                           supervision
                   operational                                                 supervision of        supervision of
                                                           purposes.
                                                                               pension funds         pension funds      S
                                                           06/08/2004          09/30/2008            09/30/2010
Comments           Project’s expectations confirmed.
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                                32
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                                                   Percentage          of
Components                      Estimate     (USD Estimate    (USD
                                                                   Appraisal
                                millions)         millions)
1. INCREASING TAX AND
CONTRIBUTION                                3.50            2.30          65.7%
COMPLIANCE
2. RESTRUCTURING AND
MODERNIZATION OF                            2.00            1.80          90.0%
FUND PIO
3. DEVELOPING AND
RESTRUCTURING
                                            0.60            0.80          133.3%
CAPACITY FOR PENSION
POLICY
4. PROJECT
                                            0.30            0.70          233.3%
MANAGEMENT


        Total Baseline Cost                 6.50            5.60          86.2%
       Physical Contingencies               0.00            0.00           0.00
          Price Contingencies               0.00            0.00           0.00
         Total Project Costs                6.50            5.60          86.2%
            Front-end fee PPF               0.00            0.00           0.00
          Front-end fee IBRD                0.00            0.00           0.00
  Total Financing Required                  0.00            5.60



(b) Financing
                                                Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                                   Type      of Estimate    Estimate      Percentage
Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing (USD         (USD          of Appraisal
                                                millions)   millions)
Borrower                                             1.50        0.00         0.00
International Development
                                                    5.00           0.00         0.00
Association (IDA)




                                            33
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component 1 - Increasing Tax and Contribution Compliance

Prior to the Project, the Tax Department, Fund PIO, the Employment Fund and the
Health Fund collected wage and contribution information separately, collected revenues
separately and also pursued their control and enforcement efforts independently of each
other. One of the main objectives of the Project was to change this situation. To enable
this process, an action plan was adopted for the unification of registration and reporting
of tax and social security contribution collection. The action plan established a working
group led by the Deputy Prime Minister of Financial Systems. It was this group which
was responsible for the new laws necessary to ensure the effective implementation of
these plans.

The Law on Unified Collection was adopted by Parliament in the first quarter of 2005,
but its implementation was deferred until the completion of the software development,
and the procurement of computer hardware. The system of unified collection involved
investment of about US$1.2 million in computer hardware. Technical specifications
were prepared with assistance from project-financed consultants and the procurement
process was synchronized with the software development.

The tender for the Software Development for Unified Collection Gateway for the Tax
Department was halted in late 2005 due to some serious complaints from one of the
bidders, ending up in its cancellation in February 2006. This package was re-tendered
under ICB procedures in July 2006, and the contract was successfully signed in
December 2006. The Unified Collection Gateway was completed in late 2010 and is
expected to become fully operarional from February 2011.

A Law on Central Registry and Reporting was also adopted and unified forms and
reporting procedures were completed by March 2010.

As part of the above procedures, the following deliverables were completed:
(i)    central databases of insured individuals and contribution payers;
(ii)   procedures for updating individual data;
(iii) data dissemination requirements to extra-budgetary funds;
(iv)   procedures for one-stop registration of newly insured individuals and contribution
       payers;
(v)    other procedures required for the smooth operation of the consolidated
       administrative system;
(vi)   return processing for all taxes;
(vii) payment processing (both payment system and cash payments); and
(viii) taxpayer accounting supporting tax type sub-accounts.




                                           34
Component 2 - Restructure and Modernize Fund PIO


The Fund PIO is responsible for the administration of the social insurance system in
respect of the following insurable contingencies: old age/retirement, disability and
survivorship. The system is based on the principles of mutuality, solidarity and
contribution performance. In order to provide timely, accurate and reliable service to
contributors, new retirees and the existing stock of pensioners, the IT systems and
business processes needed revisions which, among others, had to take into consideration
the modified division of labor and responsibilities between the Fund PIO and the Tax
Department.

The contract for the software development package for the Fund PIO’s new IT system
was signed on July 20, 2006, after a long period of clarifications and negotiations.
Following the recommendations of the World Bank team, a commission for management
and supervision of this software development project was appointed and working groups
consisting of Fund PIO staff and representatives of the consultants were formed for day-
to-day implementation. In spite of the established implementation structure, work
remained slow, with poor cooperation and collaboration as well as breakdown in
communication between the Fund PIO and the consultants. In addition, the agreed bi-
weekly progress reports were largely missing. In early 2010, the situation changed
markedly, with the hiring of a new PIO deputy director responsible for IT. From that
point on, both cooperation with the Tax Department and the developments internal to PIO
moved rapidly. By project closure in September 2010, the following developments took
place:

(i)     Centralization of pension/benefit claim processing in PIO headquarters;
(ii)    Centralization of registration of Contributors and Participants in PIO headquarters,
        in preparation for transfer to DPR;
(iii)   Transfer of collection of contributions (cash and data) to DPR; and
(iv)    Transfer of compliance and control of Contributors and Participants to DPR.

Due to delays in implementing the IT, some organizational changes envisaged by the
Project (i.e. modernization and complete restructuring of the Fund PIO and its regional
offices) could not take place before the Project was closed.

Component 3 - Develop and Strengthen Institutional Capacity for Pension Policy

This component accomplished many of its objectives. A pension modeling system has
been developed, and it is available for modelling parametric and structural pension
reforms as well as the long-term fiscal sustainability of the public pension system. A
database has been created to supply inputs to the modeling system. Staff have been
trained to work the modeling system as well as analyze the outputs.

The Law on Voluntary Pension Funds (VPFs) was adopted, resulting in the creation of a
domestic voluntary private pension industry. The system is still small and its viability



                                             35
over long-term is insecure, since there are no tax incentives attached to voluntary pension
savings and the mostly missing domestic securities provide no solid basis for the
underlying fund management.

The public education campaign for the VPFs was also succesfully implemented, with
surveys showing a large increase in the level of understanding of the public pension
system, the reasons for its reform and the benefits of voluntary pension savings. This
component was outsourced to a specialized PR company and includes PR and education
consultancy, opinion polls, development of PR and education materials and publications.




                                            36
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

No economic and financial analyses could be performed at the time of the ICR as the
expected quantifiable benefits were not yet observable. This is partly due to delays in
implementation and partly to the typically long gestation period of tax and contribution
administration reforms.




                                          37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                   Responsibility/
Names                     Title                            Unit
                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Zoran Anusic              Senior Economist                 ECSH3       pensions
Neven Bratranek           Consultant                       ECSHD          IT
Miroslav Frick            Operations Analyst               ECSS2      operations
Michael Gascoyne          Senior Resource Management Off   CFRPA         FM
Virginia H. Jackson       Consultant                       MNSHD      operations
Imelda Mueller            Operations Analyst               ECSH2      operations
Arshad M. Sayed           Country Manager                  EACMF         TTL
Yingwei Wu                Senior Procurement Specialist    LCSPT     procurement

Supervision
Zoran Anusic              Senior Economist                 ECSH3       pensions
Diomedes Berroa           Senior Operations Officer        LCSPT     procurement
Marina Petrovic           Economist                        ECSHD       pensions
Tanja Boskovic            Consultant                       AFTFE       pensions
Aleksandar Crnomarkovic   Financial Management Specialis   ECSO3          FM
Carlos D. C. Ferreira     Consultant                       ECSHD          IT
Miroslav Frick            Operations Analyst               ECSS2      operations
Michael Gascoyne          Senior Resource Management Off   CFRPA          FM
Sava Jeremic              Information Analyst              ECCYU          IT
Nikola Kerleta            Procurement Analyst              ECSO2     procurement
Plamen Stoyanov Kirov     Senior Procurement Specialist    ECSO2     procurement
Carmen F. Laurente        Senior Program Assistant         ECSHD       assistant
Silvia Mauri              Consultant                       ECSSD     coordination
Imelda Mueller            Operations Analyst               ECSH2      operations
Arshad M. Sayed           Country Manager                  EACMF         TTL1
Snjezana Plevko           Senior Economist                 ECSH3         TTL2
Rajna Cemerska            Operations Officer               ECSH3         TTL3
Sreypov Tep               Program Assistant                ECSHD       assistant
Anna L Wielogorska        Senior Procurement Specialist    EAPPR    IT procurement
Yingwei Wu                Senior Procurement Specialist    LCSPT     procurement




                                        38
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                   USD            Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                          No. of staff weeks       (including travel and
                                                   consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                              40                      233.03
  FY05                                                        3.32
  FY06                                                        0.00
  FY07                                                        0.00
  FY08                                                        0.00

Total:                              40                      236.35
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                        0.00
  FY05                              37                      133.12
  FY06                              35                      119.63
  FY07                              17                       66.81
  FY08                              17                      103.64

Total:                             106                      423.20

ű




                                  39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not available.




                                      40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not available.




                                     41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The draft ICR was shared with the Government on April 28, 2011. However, by June 7,
2011, the World Bank received only the contribution by the Securities Commission,
translated as follows:




                                        42
  Translation of the Securities Commission Letter from Securities Commission of
                                   Montenegro


Montenegro
Securities Commission
Number: 05/1-768/2-11
Podgorica, 20.05. 2011



                                            The World Bank Office
                                            Attn. Ms. Varezic
                                            Podgorica
                                            Bulevar Svetog Petra Cetinjskog 6



Dear Ms. Varezic,

On April 28, 2011, the Securities Commission of Montenegro received your e-mail and
the draft Implementation Completion Report for the Pension System Administration
Investment Project (PSAIP) and the accompanying documentation.

In your e-mail, you asked that the Securities Commission provides any comments we
have to the draft Implementation Completion Report by May 20, 2011. We hereby use
the opportunity to inform you that the Securities Commission of Montenegro has
reviewed the above mentioned draft and we don’t have any additional comments, as it is
our assessment that the draft contains realistic and objective assessment of the project
component related to the Securities Commission.

Best regards,

Member of the Commission
Azra Sehovic




                                           43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                      44
    Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

    Project Documents
1

    CAS 2005-07 Completion Report
    Status of Projects in Execution 2007
    CPS 2007-10
    CPS Progress Report

    PCN
    PID Concept Stage
    ISDS Concept Stage

    PAD
    PID
    ISDS
    Minutes of the Final Decision Meeting

    Development Credit Agreement

    Supervision Documents (SMOs, Aide Memoires, Management Letters)
    ISRs
    Procurement Documents
2
     Procurement Plans and Updates
     Procurement Post Review
    Financial Management
3
     Financial Management Assessment Memorandum
     Country FM Strategy
     ISR Rating Worksheets for FM
     FM supervision reports
     Audited Financial Statements and Audit Management Letters
     Correspondence re. Fund PIO Audits
     FMS’s review report of audit report and management letter
     Copies of FMRs received
    Other Documents
4

    Inspection report on MN information tax system
    Action plan for unified reporting and collections
    Draft unification plan
    MN Tax Information System
    MAP




                                                        45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 34825R
                                                                                       19°E



                 BOSNIA AND                                                                                                                                                             M O N TE N E GRO
                HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                  RIVERS




                                                        a
                                                        in
                                                                                                                                                                                                  MAIN ROADS

                                                     Dr
                                                                                                                                 To                                                               RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                Priboj
                                                                                           Cehotin                                                                                                OPSTINA (MUNICIPALITY) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                               To




                                                                                                    a
                                                                    To                                                                                        Priboj
                                                                   Foca                        Gradac                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                   Pljevlja



                                                                                                 Ljubisnja                                                                                              20°E
                                                                                                 (2238 m)
                                                                          Du
                                                         Bioc                   rm              v
                                                                                                Zabljak
                                                         (2396 m)                    ito
                                                                                           r
                                                                                                                                ´
                                                                                                                         Durdevica                                                                             SERBIA
                                                                                                                         Tara
                                                                                                                                                 San
                                                                   Rudinice                                                                               dzak
                          To                        Goransko
                                                                    Kom




                                                                                                                                                                v
                         Foca                                                                                                                              Tomasevo
                                                                       ari




                                                                                                                                       Ta                                           Bijelo Polje
                                                         Bajovo            a                                       Sin                    ra
                                                                           nc




                                                           Polje                                                         jaj
43°N                                                                                                                           evi
                                                                                           ˘
                                                                                           Savnik                                          na
                                                                                                                                                                     Mojkovac                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Vucitrn

   To
  Mostar                                                                          Zeta                                                                                                                                 v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Rozaje
                                                                                               Gvozd                                                             v
                                                                                                                                                                                  Ivangrad
                                                                                                               Kapa                                         Kolasin
                                         Velimlje                                                            Moracka
                                                                                   v
                           Petrovi ´
                           Petrovici                                                 ‘
                                                                                Niksic                       (2227 m)                                                    v
                                                                                                                                                               Matesevo
                                Vilusi
                                                                                                                                                     v
                                                                                                                                                                                         Andrijevica
                                                                                                        Morakovo                      Medurijecje
        To                                                                                                                                                                    Komovi                                            To
     Dubrovnik                                                                                                                                                               (2656 m)                                         Dakovica
                                            Grahovo
                                                                                                                                                         Lijeva Rijeka                   Murino
                                                                                                                                ca
                                                                                  Ze




                                                                                                                              M o ra
                                                                                     ta
                                                                                      a




                                                                                                                                             Pelev                                                     Plav
                                 Crkvice                                                       Danilovgrad
   To
Dubrovnik                                                                                                      v                                                                        Gusinje
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KOSOVO
                                   Risan                                                                  Spuz                         v
                                                     Perast                                                                    Bioce
                              Herceg-
                              Novi
                                          Tivat           Kotor                                                       PODGORICA
                                Radovi´ci                                                                                                   vn a
                                                                                                                                 ije
                                                               Cetinje                                                     Tuzi C


                                                                                                                Plavnica
                                                                                                                                                                         ALBANIA
                                                                         Sveti
                                                       Budva
                                                                         Stefan                Virpazar


                                                                Petrovac                                            Lake
                         A dr ia t ic                                                                              Scutari
                                                                                                 Stari Bar
                            Sea                                                      Bar                                                                    Shkodër


42°N
                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                            un                           To
                                                                                                                                       -B                               Kukes
                                                                                                                               a




    0       5       10   15       20 Kilometers                                                                                                                                         MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                              Bojan




                                                                                                    Ulcinj

    0           5          10            15         20 Miles                                                  Sveti Nikola


                                                                                                                                                                           To
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                          Tirane
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                19°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JULY 2009
