Document of
The World Bank                       FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2550-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN
EIGHTH POWER PROJECT
May 14, 1979
t This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.  |



CURkENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -   Rupiah (Rp)
$1                =   Rp 625
Rp 100            -   US$0.160
Rp I million           US$1,600
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 metric ton              =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 liter (1)               -  0.0063 barrels
1 kilometer (km)          =  0.6215 miles (mi)
1 kilovolt (kV)           =  1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)  =  1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)  =  1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 megawatt (MW)           =  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)    =  1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           -  Asian Development Bank
BAPPENAS      -  National Planning Agency
BATUBARA      -  National Coal Entity
BVI           -  Black and Veatch International (Engineering
Consultants)
c.i.f.        -  Cost, Insurance and Freight (International
Shipping Clause)
EHV           -  Extra High Voltage
MM             -  Merz and McLellan of U.K.
MONENCO       -  Montreal Engineering Company of Canada
PCR           -  Preece, Cardew and Rider of U.K.
PLN           -  National Electricity Authority
PERTAMINA     -  National Oil Company
REPELITA       -  Five Year Development Plan
SOFRELEC      -  French Engineering and Management Consultants
Wilayah       -  PLN's Operational Region
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PLN'S FISCAL YEARS (FY)
1971-1973     -  January 1-December 31
1975 onwards  -  April 1-March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
EIGHTH POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:       Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN), the National
Electricity Authority.
Amount:             $175 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 7.9% p.a.
On-lending Terms:  Same terms as the Bank loan with the Government financing
interest and commitment charges during the grace period.
Project
Description:     The project constitutes part of an expansion program to
provide urgently needed base load generating capacity in
Java. It would provide for the installation of a 400 MW
coal and oil burning generating unit at Suralaya in West
Java; site preparation and cooling arrangements for an
ultimate 3,100 MW thermal power station at the same site;
oil handling and storage facilities for the first stage
(consisting of the unit referred to above and a second 400
MW unit) of the station; associated substations and build-
ings and structures at Suralaya; training and consultancy
services. The project will enable PLN to meet the forecast
demand for power, for both industrial and domestic purposes,
by 1984. It is also expected to achieve further improve-
ments in PLN's organization so that it could cope with its
increasing responsibilities.  No major risks are foreseen,
except for possible delays in project implementation due
to cumbersome contract approval and payment procedures
which the Government is expected to remedy. There is also
the remote possibility that the Bukit Asam Coal Mining
project may be postponed in which case coal firing facilities
under this project would not yield benefits until a later
date when coal becomes available.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                           Local   Foreign    Total
------ ($ million) ----
Surveys, site preparation & civil works              69.92        -       69.92
Steel work & stack                                   10.29       7.10    17.39
Boilers & auxiliaries                                 3.52      62.94    66.46
Turbo generators & auxiliaries                         1.81     54.96    56.77
Station electrical and substation equipment           0.58      18.70    19.28
Engineering & supervision, administration,
& training                                          9.94      11.71    21.65
Base Cost                                      96.06    155.41   251.47
Physical Contingencies                                9.01       5.58    14.59
Price Contingencies                                 62.10      43.10   105.20
71.11      48.68   119.79
Project management advisory group                     0.25        2.50     2.75
Saguling Board of consultants                          -         0.20      0.20
Total Project cost                            167.42    206.79   374.21
Financing Plan:   The proposed Bank loan of $175 million would cover 85% of
the foreign exchange cost. As Loan 1513-IND of FY78 covers
$3.0 million of the engineering cost of this project, the
shortfall in the foreign exchange component would be $28.8
million which would be met either by the Government or
through co-financing arrangements to be made by the Govern-
ment. The Government and PLN would provide $167.42 to cover
the local costs.
Estimated
Disbursements:   Bank FY         1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
----------- ($ million) -------------------
Annual        21.0    25.0    46.0    51.0    28.0         4.0
Cumulative   21.0    46.0    92.0   143.0   171.0   175.0
Rate of Return:   12% on the basis of the present tariff level, but will be
higher when tariffs are increased.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 2375-IND, dated May 14, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR AN
EIGHTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $175 million to help
finance an Eighth Power Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum. Proceeds
of the loan would be onlent to Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN), the
National Electricity Authority, on the same terms as those of the proposed
loan except that interest and commitment charges during the grace period would
be capitalized. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Growth
Patterns, Social Progress and Development Prospects," of February 20, 1979
(No. 2093-IND) was circulated to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979.
The report's main findings are that:
(a) aided by a massive improvement in the country's resource position
during the early 1970s and by innovative policies, considerable
progress has been made towards raising the level of material
well-being for the bulk of the Indonesian population, including
the lowest income groups;
(b) due to a number of new, mostly exogenous circumstances,
including an expected slowdown in the growth of oil production,
Indonesia is now facing a rapidly tightening overall resource
position which will make it more difficult to maintain high levels
of income and employment growth, while at the same time preserving
monetary stability and external balance;
(c) the recent (November 15, 1978) devaluation of the Rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 to the US dollar, while strongly supportive of
the structural changes required to reduce economic dependence on
oil and to improve long-term development prospects, should not be
regarded as a substitute for efforts needed to remove physical and
administrative bottlenecks and to develop effective support services;
(d) although the Government (because of the structure of its revenues
and expenditures) is a prime beneficiary of devaluation-induced
income shifts from import users to net exporters, significant
additional public sector resource mobilization efforts will be
needed to prevent a sharp decline in the share of Government
savings in GNP beyond 1979/80;
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second Agri-
cultural Training Project (No. P-2506-IND), circulated under cover of
R79-75, dated April 12, 1979, and approved by the Executive Directors on
April 24, 1979.



(e) while the next five to ten years may be difficult because of the
structural changes needed to adjust to a post-oil boom era, Indonesia's
long-term development prospects have been significantly enhanced by
the Government's successful population policies which have already
contributed to a substantial (approximately 20%) reduction of
fertility in Java and Bali during the past decade. These crucially
important demographic developments will, in due course, particularly
after the mid-1980s, be reflected in reduced and declining rates of
growth of the labor force. Declining labor force growth rates and
the prospects of declining income elasticities of demand for food
justify the hope and expectation that with sound policies, Indonesia
can and will eventually - possibly within the next two decades -
overcome the severe poverty and food security problems that still
plague the country today. The solution of these fundamental problems
through the pursuit of a pervasive employment-oriented development
strategy would set the economy firmly on a long-term growth path
towards much higher levels of social and economic development
involving all Indonesians. One of the key components of such a
strategy would be to aim at a high rate of labor-intensive manufac-
turing development.
Social Developments Since 1970
3.        Analysis of data from the National Household Surveys for 1970 and
1976 suggests that while overall income disparities have almost certainly
widened, the rapid overall growth of the economy /1 has contributed to a
considerable improvement in consumption of all income groups, including the
very poor. The data further suggest that increases in per capita consumption
were higher in Java than in the Other Islands and higher in urban areas than
in rural areas. Notwithstanding this, many Indonesians remain extremely poor:
in 1976 when average per capita income was about $280,/2 over 50 million
Indonesians (38% of the population) spent less than $90 (1976 prices and
exchange rate).
4.        Analysis of data from National Labor Force Surveys shows a remarkably
high rate of employment growth (over 4% p.a.) between September 1971 and October
1976. But during this period, the labor force also grew at a very high rate
and the data suggest that there was a slight increase in the rate of open
unemployment. Since the labor force grew much faster than population in the
relevant age groups, a sharp increase in labor force participation rates, from
50% in September 1971 to 55% in October 1976, was observed. Thus, a substantial
part of the increased per capita consumption levels is believed to have been
related to increased labor force participation and declining dependency ratios.
5.        The share of agricultural employment between 1971 and 1976 declined
from 66% to 62%, implying rapid growth of nonagricultural employment - over 7%
p.a. or 54% of the total increase in employment. Within the nonagricultural
sectors, the increase in employment occurred largely in proliferating small-
/1 GDP grew at 8.0% p.a. As a result of favorable terms of trade developments
during most of the period, GDY grew even faster - about 9.5% p.a.
/2 World Bank Atlas (Preliminary estimate for 1977: $300).



- 3 -
scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors where labor produc-
tivity is thought to be extremely low. This is indicated, inter alia, by the
stagnation of real minimum wage levels which are among the lowest in the
world. Employment growth in medium- and large-scale enterprises, which
absorbed the bulk of industrial investment, was very modest. The broad
picture of rapid employment growth since 1970, though encouraging in many
respects, thus reveals that a relatively large part of the incremental employ-
ment has been of poor quality in residual types of activities.
6.        Much progress has been made in recent years with the provision of
education services. Enrollment rates increased at all levels of education.
For example, primary school enrollment (excluding over-age students) is ex-
pected to reach 85% in 1979 for the 7-12 age group, compared to 60% in 1974;
dropout rates - while still high - declined, and universal primary education
appears to be in sight. A promising nonformal education program has been
introduced to increase the basic employable skills of those who never attended
school (presently estimated at 23 million people) and others who left school
without completing primary education (a further 22 million). Indonesia's
adult literacy rate increased to 62% in 1974, which is much higher than in
India (36%), Pakistan (21%), or Bangladesh (23%), but lower than in Thailand
(82%) or the Philippines (87%). Within Indonesia, large differences in levels
of educational attainment between urban and rural areas still exist, but
differences between Java and other parts of the country are relatively small.
7.        In the field of health care services, there has been a tremendous
expansion of physical infrastructure including medical training facilities.
Almost 3,000 rural health centers, designed to become the principal vehicles
for the delivery of basic health services, were constructed between 1969 and
1977. But much of the new physical infrastructure has so far remained under-
utilized due to personnel shortage and a range of other factors, including
popular preference for traditional health care services in several areas.
8.        Inadequate sewerage and sanitation facilities are still major
health hazards, especially in crowded urban areas. Even if the various
targets for rural and urban water supply for the Second Five-Year Development
Plan (Repelita II), which ended in March 1979, were fully met, over 100
million Indonesians will still remain without easy access to safe water in
1979. Similarly, housing conditions are generally very unsatisfactory,
especially in crowded urban areas.   Although simple and inexpensive improve-
ments in water supply, drainage, footpaths and community facilities, executed
through Kampung Improvement Projects, including those supported by the Bank
Group, have contributed to better living conditions in several overcrowded
urban areas, specific socio-economic support programs to improve the living
conditions of the urban poor are needed.
The Devaluation of November 15, 1978
9.        The recent devaluation of the rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US
dollar was designed to encourage labor-intensive import substitution and
nonoil export growth by reversing some of the adverse relative price shifts in
the economy that had occurred earlier this decade. The opportune timing of
this drastic and unique policy action is believed to be a strong factor in



- 4 -
enhancing the probability of its success. The strongest immediate effect of
the devaluation, however, will be a dramatic increase in budgetary revenues in
local currency terms. Government expenditures will, of course, also increase
as a result of the devaluation but the net budgetary position in terms of
rupiahs should improve strongly. While the recent devaluation will generally
tend to facilitate export promotion efforts, great emphasis needs to be placed
on the importance of developing effective support services and of reducing
administrative obstacles and other unnecessary cost-increasing factors.
10.       A number of supportive measures to prevent an upturn in domestic
inflation eroding the potential benefits of this devaluation have already been
taken. Such measures include the lowering of import tariffs by 50% on a wide
range of intermediate inputs, stringent temporary price controls, and a
temporary increase in budgetary subsidies to isolate initially key consumption
items, such as rice, from the effects of the devaluation. Aside from the
budget's influence on the prices via subsidies, the degree of monetary control
exercised will also be an important factor in minimizing devaluation-induced
inflation. There is likely to be conflict, however, between the need to
contain devaluation-induced monetary expansion and the need for additional
credit to promote new private investment in line with the structural objectives
of the devaluation. Nonetheless, a sizeable budget surplus in fiscal 1979/80
almost certainly will be needed to assist in neutralizing the effect of a sudden
sharp increase in the rate of monetary expansion following the devaluation.
11.       Prior to the November exchange rate adjustment, balance of payments
projections based on current trends and expectations suggested the probability
that, without special export promotion efforts, a shortage of foreign exchange
would become a binding constraint on development efforts within the next few
years. Although it is too early to make more than a very preliminary and
speculative assessment of the effect of the devaluation on imports and exports,
there is now less ground for the fear that the balance of payments will become
a development constraint. No dramatic changes, however, are foreseen in the
immediate future; the short-term export response, in particular, is likely to
be constrained by supply rigidities. Ultimately, changes in the size and
structure of imports and exports will be strongly influenced by the effect that
the devaluation will have on the overall growth performance of the economy.
Food Supply and Demand Prospects
12.       Despite impressive achievements in rice production, the past
decade has seen a continuing decline in Indonesia's food self-sufficiency.
Between 1968 and 1977, the composite trend growth rates of domestic food
calorie production and availability were approximately 3.2% and 3.7%, respect-
ively./I These growth rates reflect a growing import-dependence on rice,
sugar, wheat and recently coconut oil, as well as a reduction or disappearance
of maize, cassava, meat and coconut product exports. After three years of
declining growth rate in rice production due to a combination of poor
weather and pest problems, 1978 showed a large increase in output (over 10%),
/1 The rice trend production growth rate was about 3.5% and the composite
trend for the 5 main secondary staples (maize, cassava, peanuts, sweet
potatoes, and soybeans) was 1.6%.



- 5 -
but import requirements in 1978/79, though much lower than in 1977/78,
were still about 6% of total domestic consumption.
13.       Comparison of plausible food supply and demand scenarios suggests
the likelihood of increasing import requirements of basic foods and especially
of rice, wheat, sugar, coconut oil and possibly maize. There is an urgent
need for a comprehensive food production and consumption strategy. In the
case of rice, with the substantial completion of irrigation rehabilitation,
the recent shift in emphasis towards extension of irrigated areas and
swamp drainage projects will probably somewhat reduce rice production growth
rates, at least through 1985. However, the potential for increasing fertil-
izer and insecticide consumption and for improving the local performance of
the most recent IRRI varieties, suggests that an annual rate of growth of
rice production of around 3.5% is nevertheless feasible through 1985. The
recent devaluation has provided significant additional room for further rice
producer price increases aimed at stimulating supply.
14.       While slower growth in rice productivity is anticipated, a com-
parison of yields of secondary crops in a number of countries suggests that
these crops offer considerable potential for raising Indonesia's domestic
food self-sufficiency. With proper marketing and other support services, the
rate of growth of secondary crop production could probably be raised from
1.7% to 3.5% p.a. A gradual shift in the overall food production and con-
sumption pattern from rice to the secondary crops would assist low-income
farmers in unirrigated areas and reduce the cost and risks associated with
excessive rice import-dependency.
Overall Growth and Employment Prospects
15.       Medium-term prospects, as determined by developments already in
motion and by exogenous factors such as the expected temporary stagnation
in oil production, suggest that it will be difficult to achieve an overall GNP
growth rate of more than 6-6.5% during the next 3-5 years. This is consider-
ably less than the average growth performance of the economy during the
past decade. But if the broad pattern of relationships between output growth,
employment growth, and personal consumption growth observed for the period
1970-76 does not drastically change, a GNP growth rate of 6-6.5% could still
be consistent with an overall employment growth target rate of around 3% p.a.
The Government has already announced a GNP growth target of 6.5% p.a. for the
Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita III), which started in April 1979.
16.       As the economy is entering a difficult period of adjustment to post-
oil boom conditions involving structural changes in the pattern of production
and the sources of savings, more reliance will have to be placed on agricul-
ture and industry and on the mobilization of Indonesia's most abundant and
inexhaustible resource: people. The devaluation may be expected to facilitate
the structural changes that are needed. With improved incentives for an employ-
ment-oriented strategy and adequate Government investment and institutional
support services for agriculture and small industries, it should in due course
be possible to raise the overall growth rate of the economy to at least 7% or 8%,
which would be a major help in accelerating the further elimination of poverty.



- 6-
External Aid and Creditworthiness
17.       The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of
1976, together with a hardening of average terms during those years, has
raised the level of debt service payments which reached about $1.5 billion in
1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings. The debt service ratio /1
was 16% in 1976 and 17% in 1977; the ratio is expected to remain below 20% in
1979 and 1980. This is the encouraging result of restraint with regard to
new borrowing in 1976 and 1977 and the recent replacement on more favorable
terms of $575 million remaining payments on cash loans (originally totalling
$1 billion) which had been obtained in 1975 from a number of private banks in
the wake of the Pertamina crisis. Total new loan commitments declined from a
peak of $3.4 billion in 1975 to $2.3 billion in 1978. M4ost of the decline
was achieved through a reduction in commercial borrowing. This means that
average loan terms have recently begun to soften again, which will be reflected
in future debt service payments.
18.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the
IGGI (including the World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted
for over 90% of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
$1.93 billion in 1979/80, including both loans and grants, of which at least
70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of
the IGGI in April 1979 the indications of probable commitments in 1979/80 made
by bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to about this level; the
meeting therefore concluded that the Bank's recommendations would be approxi-
mately met.
19.       The Bank's overall assessment of Indonesia's external accounts
indicates that the country will be able to finance essential imports of
consumer, intermediate and capital goods and to meet its debt service obli-
gations. The debt service ratio is expected to remain below 20%. Although
the November 15 Rupiah devaluation will provide a one-time revenue windfall,
the Government will need to raise substantial additional non-oil revenues over
the coming years if the relatively high rate of domestic investment already
reached is to be maintained. The Government has been quite cautious in
increasing current expenditures and there does not appear to be much scope for
reducing them further; expenditures should, in fact, rise in step with the
growth in GNP and inflation, to permit reasonable growth in Government salaries
as well as materials expenditures, a significant part of which is development-
related. In view of the pressure on public sector resources, and since
Indonesia's total external financing requirements are in excess of the foreign
exchange components of the many projects planned for financing from external
sources, a limited measure of local cost financing, is considered justified.
/1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
20.      As of March 31, 1979, Indonesia had received 40 IDA credits totalling
$680.8 /2 million, and 37 Bank loans amounting to $1,903.0 million; IFC
investments have totalled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1977 was
about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%.  By the end of 1978, these
ratios are estimated to have increased to around 12% and 5%, respectively.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and IFC Investments as
of March 31, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.      To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one-third of all lending. Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide credit inputs and advice to farmers and to
promote agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group.
More recently, an effort to aid the Government's transmigration program
has been initiated. In the power sector the Bank Group has financed seven
power projects in Indonesia and the proposed project is part of an expansion
program to provide urgently needed base load capacity in Java. In the indus-
trial sector, while the major thrust has been on expanding fertilizer produc-
tion on the basis of Indonesia's gas resources and on the establishment and
improvement of development finance institutions, a credit has also been
extended to finance a small enterprise development project. The main emphasis
in education has been on upgrading the quality of education, improving primary
and secondary education and manpower training as well as on expanding non-
formal education. In the social sector, the Bank Group has financed projects
for urban development (through neighborhood improvement programs), urban water
supply, family planning, and nutrition. A major portion of Bank Group financ-
ing has been used to rehabilitate and expand Indonesia's inadequate infra-
structure, particularly in the power and transportation sectors. Credits have
also been extended to finance a telecommunications project and a tourism
project. Finally, the Bank Group has assisted the Government's efforts to
prepare and formulate its development programs and projects through five
technical assistance credits and a loan for a natural resource survey and
mapping project.
22.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which will provide increasingly productive work oppor-
tunities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing labor
force and increase agricultural production, particularly of food crops. One of
/1 Except for para. 24 substantially unchanged from the President's Report
on the Second Agricultural Training Project (No. P-2506-IND), circulated
under cover of R79-75, dated April 12, 1979, and approved by the
Executive Directors on April 24, 1979.
/2 Includes amounts ($1.1 million) cancelled.



the major objectives of Repelita III is to increase employment through programs
directed towards improving the incomes of the poor and their living standards.
While several of these programs are likely to be suitable for Bank Group
financing, it will be some time before they are ready for implementation.
However, as part of this new focus, a small enterprise development project,
designed to increase non-agricultural employment in the rural areas and small
towns, has already been approved by the Executive Directors, and an integrated
rural development project should be ready for presentation to the Executive
Directors in a few months. With respect to agriculture development, projects
are being prepared to further improve and expand research and extension
services, rehabilitate and expand irrigation systems, assist in watershed
management and village development, and develop presently underutilized land
in areas outside Java for transmigrants and other smallholders. In addition
to the family planning program, which continues to have high priority, other
areas of particular importance for Bank Group assistance will be the improve-
ment of urban services through construction of urban water supply systems and
further expansion of neighborhood improvement programs, support for industrial
development and the improvement and expansion of higher education, particularly
of engineers, accountants and agriculture specialists, as well as primary and
nonformal education. Finally, Bank Group financing continues to be important
for the Government's program of infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion,
particularly in transport and power, which will continue to require very large
investments for many years before these facilities are adequate to support
Indonesia's development. Compared to past lending activities, many of these
projects and programs reflect the shift of emphasis in the Government's
development objectives from rehabilitation and expansion to a better balanced
and more equitable and employment-oriented economic growth strategy.
23.      Bank Group lending to Indonesia started in 1968, and between 1968 and
1974 all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA terms. Following the
rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled Indonesia to borrow on
less concessional terms, it was decided that all lending to Indonesia after
June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms. Since 1974, the Government has
saved and invested almost all of the increase in its oil revenues and greatly
expanded its development expenditures which reached about $6 billion in
1977/78. For reasons discussed in Part I above, and notwithstanding the
November 1978 devaluation, both the budgetary and balance of payments situa-
tions may be difficult in the years ahead. Thus, while Indonesia has always
qualified for assistance on concessional terms on grounds of its low per
capita income and the quality of its economic management, such terms are now
also necessary to enable it to maintain a high level of investment without
impairing its ability to service its external debt. Accordingly, starting in
FY78, a portion of Bank Group lending to Indonesia has again been provided on
IDA terms.



-9-
24.       Although overall project implementation performance in Indonesia is
now about the average for the Bank, the Bank and the Government have
become concerned in recent months about the level of disbursements which in
the last year or so has shown a declining trend. Many of the problems seem
to be attributable to cumbersome procedures for procurement and payment of
contracts, including issuance of letters of credit. In other cases, project
specific problems and unfamiliarity of some project executing agencies
with procedures also cause difficulties. A number of steps have been taken
by the Government and the Bank in an attempt to address these problems. In
the last year, two Bank missions were sent to Indonesia to analyze and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures; the
Government is now reviewing their reports. The Government and the Bank are also
holding regular joint review meetings in order to identify project specific as
well as more general problems and to work out corrective measures. The first
of these meetings was held in early March this year in Jakarta on a few
selected projects and a second meeting is scheduled for June. During the IGGI
meeting in April 1979 the Government announced several ameliorative measures
designed to streamline the more complex budgetary and financial procedures
which seem to affect implementation of almost all projects. Although, as a
result of these initiatives an improvement in implementation performance is
now anticipated, constant follow up in this area will be necessary in the
coming months.
25.       The proposed loan would be the tenth lending operation presented to
the Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total lending to
Indonesia this year to $794 million. Projects for rural development and
nucleus estate and smallholder development may be ready for presentation in
the next few months.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND ELECTRICITY SECTORS
The Energy Sector
26.       Indonesia is richly endowed with petroleum, natural gas, coal,
hydropower and geothermal energy resources. Prior to independence coal and
hydroelectric power were initially the main sources of energy but the country
later changed to petroleum which now accounts for 90% of the total commercial
energy consumption. In the context of petroleum price trends the main energy
sector issues are (i) to conserve and make optimum use of fuel resources; and
(ii) to evolve a national pricing policy to cover all types of energy sources.
27.       Proved petroleum reserves, estimated at 15 billion barrels, have
not increased significantly since 1970. With virtually static reserves and
rapid increases in domestic demand, surpluses available for export will
steadily decline. A basic policy objective of the Government, therefore, is
to utilize the abundantly available natural gas, hydroelectric, geothermal and
coal resources. The Bank supports this objective.
28.       The estimated natural gas reserve is about 34 trillion cu ft.  The
annual consumption is about 400 billion cu ft, and pipelines have recently
been constructed to utilize surplus gas now being flared in fertilizer and
steel factories. Consumption of gas is expected to increase by 15% annually
over the next five years. Further, following agreements reached with Japan,
export of natural gas in liquid form (LNG) has commenced and is expected to
grow rapidly.



- 10 -
29.       The hydroelectric potential of the country has been roughly estimated
at 31,000 MW. Irian Jaya, where demand is smallest, has the greatest potential,
and Java has the least. Presently only about 1.5% of the potential is used.
Unfavorable locations of potential hydroelectric sites and the long gestation
periods involved limit hydroelectric development in the near future; investi-
gation of potential sites is being accelerated, however.
30.       Estimates of the country's coal reserves vary from 1.2 billion tons
to 10.0 billion tons. The bulk of these are in Sumatra and the balance in
Kalimantan. Prior to World War II, production was about 2.0 million tons per
year; at present it is only 250,000 tons. In 1976 the Government decided
that it would actively encourage the development of coal for domestic energy
consumption wherever technically and economically feasible.  A feasibility
study showed that coal could be mined at the Bukit Asam colliery in Sumatra
at a production cost of 810-15/ton. Drilling carried out during 1977/78
confirmed that recoverable reserves of coal of acceptable quality are available
for an 800 MW power station. Investigations of other collieries in Sumatra
and Kalimantan are in progress.
31.       The main demand for Indonesian coal comes from the Java electricity
system, which accounts for about 80% of the total electrical energy supply in
Indonesia. Engineering studies carried out during 1977/78 established the
break-even cost of Sumatran coal delivered to West Java at about $37.0/ton /1
while the cost of equivalent oil is about $13.6 per barrel. Large-scale
mining using modern methods at Bukit Asam is expected to result in large
benefits to both the coal and electricity sectors. The Government has
decided, therefore, that all future thermal power stations in Java, hitherto
designed only for burning oil, should be suitably designed for burning both
coal and oil as fuel.  The proposed project, which will use Bukit Asam coal,
will be the first step in implementation of the Government's policy to
optimize fuel resources.
32.       The country needs a clearly formulated overall energy policy based
on detailed demand projections and the examination of all its resource endow-
ments and the costs of alternative development strategies and pricing. There
is not much information available to facilitate this task, but the Government
has taken a number of actions towards formulating a coordinated energy policy.
A new Ministry of Mines and Energy was established in May 1978 with overall
responsibility for general mining, coal, oil, natural gas and electricity and
controling several important state enterprises, e.g., the national oil and gas
entity (PERTAMINA), the coal entity (BATUBARA) and Perusahaan TJmum Listrik
Negara (PLN),the National Electricity Authority. The important issue of
formulating a national energy pricing policy is receiving attention: the
national planning agency (BAPPENAS) has agreed to carry out a study of the
pricing of natural gas, and a consultant who will periodically monitor this
work, has been selected in consultation with the Bank. Terms of reference
have also been drafted on coal studies which will (a) review available data on
coal reserves so that plans can be drawn up to mine and utilize about 10.0 mil-
lion tons of coal expected to be needed annually by 19q5 for electricity pro-
duction; and (b) establish prices relative to other fuels.  The Bank has also
assisted PLN in evolving a new tariff structure which reflects long-run
/1   The cost of coal delivered at Suralaya is expected to be less than this.



- 11 -
marginal costs. The introduction of this tariff structure by April 1, 1979
was required under Loan 1513-IND and since PLN plans to implement the
revised tariffs simultaneously with the contemplated increases in the level
of the tariffs, the relevant clause of the Project Agreement (Ln. 1513-IND)
would be amended by changing the date to March 31, 1980 (Section 4.07 of the
draft Project Agreement) (see para. 66 below).
33.       Meaningful relative energy prices will not however be realized
until the Government fully adjusts domestic oil prices which are controlled
and subsidized by the Government. Prior to the 1978 devaluation, the economic
subsidy on fuel products amounted to about one third of their opportunity
cost. The subsidized products were kerosene, diesel and fuel oil which
together account for about 80% of total consumption. Devaluation increased
the rupiah costs of crude and imported products such as kerosene and prices
of all petroleum products include subsidies. In order to reduce these subsidies
the Government has recently (April/May 1979) increased domestic prices of oil
products by an average of 40%. Following these price increases, the level of
subsidies is now estimated to amount to Rp 419.6 billion ($670 million),
compared to Rp 612.5 billion ($980 million) before. Although these recent
increases are a welcome step in the right direction, domestic fuel prices are
still less than the equivalent terms they were before devaluation; the need
for further increases therefore remains.
The Electricity Sector
34.       The electricity sector in Indonesia consists of PLN (the Government-
owned enterprise, statutorily responsible for all generation, transmission and
distribution in the country), captive plant installations,/1 and some municipal
franchises. PLN came into being in 1961 when three Dutch-owned electricity
utility companies were nationalized, but commenced effective operations only
in 1972 when its charter laid down its legal status as a semiautonomous entity
with exclusive responsibility for all electricity supply in the country, and
adequate foreign financing became available for its expansion programs.
Until 1976, captive plants grew rapidly, but since then PLN has begun to
fulfill its responsibility as the main electricity supplier and the growth of
captive plant has declined. Last year, PLN's sales registered 25% increase,
the most significant annual increase so far. PLN expects to sustain an
annual average rate of growth of about 21% through 1986.
35.       A review of the electricity sector, covering both PLN and captive
plant, was recently carried out by PLN and the Bank. The broad conclusions
are that in Java, where PLN's supply capabilities have increased and reliabi-
lity standards have improved, the growth of captive plants would not increase
in future; in the other islands, wherever demands are small and PLN itself
has to resort to the use of diesel installations, there could be continuing
justification for some captive installations. Ultimately, elimination of
such uneconomic investments as captive diesel plants can be achieved only
/1 Installed by private parties for electricity production for their own use.
In March 1978, their aggregate capacity was about half the total capacity
in the country, but they supplied only a third of the electricity consump-
tion.



- 12 -
when the PLN system is expanded throughout the country. This requires
substantial and sustained investments. The Government supports PLN's program
which is consistent with a sound energy policy and intends to raise the
required finances. Existing captive plants with any useful life left
when industries are connected to public supply are expected to be utilized as
emergency reserves.
Existing Public Supply Facilities
36.       The total generating capacity available to PLN /1 at the end of
FY78 was about 2,000 MW, 40% of which was in the form of gas turbines, 23%
diesel, 22% hydro and 15% steam. In Java, gas turbines now account for 50%
of the total capacity of 1,255 MW. This unbalanced development was due to a
crash program of gas turbine capacity expansion in the early seventies when
PLN suffered major breakdowns in generating capacity and gas turbines were
seen as the only means of adding new generating capacity quickly. The commis-
sioning in 1979 of new steam generating capacity at Perak and Gresik (East
Java), Semarang (Central Java) and Muara-Karang (West Java) should correct
this imbalance. These new steam stations will add 1,200 MW of base load
capacity by 1982. At that time, the PLN system in Java will have 53% of
steam, 20% of hydro and 27% of gas turbine plant; all its uneconomic small
diesel plants would be retired. PLN operates about 3,800 km of transmission
lines, mostly in Java. About 2,000 km of high voltage (70/150 kV) transmis-
sion lines are currently under construction and these will be completed during
1979-82 forming an all Java Grid. Despite recent progress, per capita electri-
city consumption in Indonesia from all sources is extremely low at 45 kWh,
compared with 450 kWh in Malaysia, 300 kWh in Papua New Guinea, 250 kWh in the
Philippines and 180 KWh in Thailand.
The Power Market
37.       Several attempts have been made in recent years to prepare a
reliable demand forecast as a basis for developing the public power supply in
Indonesia. The most detailed assessment of the underlying demand /2 in Java
was made during 1974-76 by Preece, Cardew and Rider (PCR) of the United
Kingdom as part of the comprehensive Java System Development Study (financed
under the West Java Thermal Power project, Credit 399-IND). The study contains
two sets of projections: a high forecast based on the assumption that publicly
owned generating capacity will meet the entire underlying demand, and another,
which forecasts a substantially lower rate of growth of public supply. PLN's
future sales in the short- and medium-term will depend entirely on the rate at
which it is capable of connecting an increasing portion of the existing demand
to its supply system; in the long term sales will reflect more accurately the
growth of power demand based on the overall level of economic development. No
comprehensive demand surveys have been undertaken for the other islands.
38.       In 1976, PLN and the Bank accepted PCR's lower forecast as a
guideline for PLN's development in Java. The PCR study also includes an
/1 Includes the 125 MW hydroelectric station owned by the Jatiluhur Authority.
/2 The demand PLN would have served if its installations had been adequate
and all self-supplied installations had been served by PLN.



- 13 -
optimized program of generation and transmission expansion to meet this
demand forecast. PLN's latest sales forecast, made in August 1977, is about
20% lower than PCR's low forecast for 1983, but catches up with it by 1990.
Accordingly, the rate of growth of PLN's sales is expected to increase at an
average annual rate of about 21% through 1986, while PLN's share of the total
market would increase to about 80%; after 1986, the rate of growth would
gradually decline to about 15% per year at the end of the period. The latest
indications are that the actual demand on public supplies will be higher than
estimated and will need to be given attention during the annual review of
PLN's investment program.
PLN's Development Program
39.       PLN has prepared a development plan for power in Indonesia for the
period up to 1986/87, which envisages an increase in the installed generating
capacity from about 2,000 MW to over 7,300 MW, enabling energy generation to
increase from 4,800 GWh to about 25,000 GWh. It also provides for the devel-
opment of associated transmission and distribution networks. The total
investments at 1978 prices amount to about $9.0 billion with a foreign exchange
component of $6.1 billion. The expenditure is phased over a nine-year period,
increasing from $0.65 billion in 1978/79 to about $1.50 billion in 1986/87.
The investment program is realistic and the Government intends to make appro-
priate provisions in REPELITA III.
40.       The investment program basically covers the country in two geograph-
ically divided plans, viz. Java Island and territories outside Java. About 85
million (63%) out of the total population of about 133.5 million live in Java,
which in 1977/78, accounted for 3,900 GWh, or about 81% of the country's total
energy generation of 4,800 GWh. Out of total generating capacity of about
2,000 MW installed by PLN approximately 1,255 MW was in Java (65.1%). The
territories outside Java cover a large number of islands, the major ones being
Sumatra, Kalimantan and Sulawesi. These three islands, together with Java,
account for over 95% of the country's electricity consumption.
41.       Detailed engineering studies have been carried out to identify
the optimal development strategy for the power system in Java and the least
cost path identified. The plan has been formulated to achieve the following
objectives: (a) to optimize resource utilization by substituting the use of
oil by coal, hydro and geothermal resources for power generation and by
replacing/reducing the use of fuel inefficient installations; (b) to realize
economies of scale by larger-sized installations; (c) to achieve operational
economy by the coordinated utilization of plants through interconnected
operations; and (d) to provide acceptable standards of reliability of supply.
The development plan for areas outside Java is not equally well founded and
requires further review; PLN intends to make such a review. In particular,
PLN will identify the reasons for the present low utilization of existing
plants and the continued low utilization trends in the investment plans and
arrange for the optimum utilization of all facilities existing and under
construction. The plan for the other islands will be modified accordingly.
The Bank Group's Involvement in the Sector
42.       The Bank Group has supported the Government's policy of increasing
electricity generation under a balanced generation/distribution program by



- 14 -
providing loans and credits totalling $461 million. Three distribution
projects (Credits 165 and 334, and Loan 1259-IND) for the rehabilitation and
expansion of the distribution facilities in the greater Jakarta area, and four
power generation projects (Credit 399 and Loans 1127, 1365-IND and 1513-IND)
for West Java and Central Java were undertaken to help PLN in commencing the
necessary modernization programs. The past loans and credits also provided
funds for a variety of consulting services to improve PLN's organizational and
operational efficiency and to prepare future power projects. Cost overruns
resulting from the 1973/74 oil crisis, difficulties in obtaining the required
local funds and cumbersome contract approval and payment procedures caused
delays in implementation of some of these projects. The earlier distribution
projects (Credits 163-IND and 334-IND) have been completed two years behind
schedule. A completion report on these projects has been prepared and is
being reviewed by OED.
43.       Also, in support of government policy to diversify energy sources,
the Bank made a $10 million engineering loan (S-9) in FY78 for the preparation
of the Bukit Asam coal mining and associated transport facilities project.
Consultants are in place and, upon completion of their work, the Bank will
appraise the project. The proposed project has been designed to utilize the
coal from Bukit Asam, thus constituting the first major step in energy diver-
sification in Indonesia. The Bank is also financing part of the costs of
consultancy services to prepare a hydroelectric project (Saguling) of 700 MW
capacity in West Java under Credits 399 and 451-IND. The detailed field
investigations are being financed with Japanese aid. The Bank Group's assist-
ance is likely to be requested to finance the construction of the project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
44.       The Suralaya scheme was identified by the comprehensive Java
Development Study, financed through Credit 399-IND and carried out by Preece,
Cardew and Rider (PCR) of the United Kingdom (UK). The feasibility study was
prepared by the Montreal Engineering Company of Canada (MONENCO) and the
project was appraised in December 1978. The negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. on April 16-20, 1979; Mr. Samaun Samadikun, Director General
of Energy, Ministry of Mines and Energy, led the Government Delegation.
A Staff Appraisal Report dated May 14, 1979, No. 2375-IND is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
45.       The project would provide for the installation of a 400 MW thermal
generating set (Unit 1) capable of firing both coal and oil, which is the
first phase of the first stage of the Suralaya power project in West Java
which will ultimately have an installed capacity of 3,100 MW. Construction of
the first stage has been phased into two parts in order to reduce annual
financing commitments. Financing for the second unit will be proposed in
FY80.
46.       The existing 150 kV transmission system in Java, and the extensions
which are in progress, would not be adequate to utilize the power that would
be available from the Suralaya scheme. A higher capacity transmission system
employing Extra High Voltage (EHV) is required. Merz and McLellan (MM) of the
UK has been commissioned to carry out planning, detailed engineering and



- 15 -
design of this EHV system with funds provided under Loan 1365-IND. The
planning study is expected to establish, by the end of May 1979, the voltage
(400 kV or 500 kV) and system configuration needed to transmit power from the
first stage of the Suralaya scheme to the main load centers in Java.
47.       The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is considering providing $70.0
million for the EHV project in its FY79 lending program. Other external
sources are also expected to participate in its financing. The Bank will
follow progress. Assurances were obtained from the Government that the EHV
project will be completed in time (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
48.       PLN's investment program provides adequately for the subtransmis-
sion and distribution expansion projects needed to utilize Suralaya power.
Ultimately all this power will be consumed mainly in the West Java region.
It is expected that an additional investment of about $100.0 million will
be needed during 1982-85 to strengthen these subtransmission/distribution
systems. The Government is aware of the need for timely completion of the
necessary subtransmission and distribution facilities.
Description of the Project
49.       The project comprises:
(a) site preparation and cooling water arrangements for an ultimate
3,100 MW thermal power station /1 at Suralaya;
(b) supply, installation and commissioning of the first 400 MW
generating unit (Unit I);
(c) oil handling and storage facilities (for Units I and II);
(d) associated substations at Suralaya;
(e) associated buildings and structures;
(f) equipment and training of PLN staff in the operation of large
thermal generating units;
(g) project management consultants services for PLN's construction
department; and
(h) a Special Board of Consultants for the Saguling hydroelectric
project.
50.       PLN has a large investment program covering elements scattered
throughout the archipelago. The present system of monitoring projects by the
central construction department needs to be reorganized to cope effectively
with the magnitude and complexities of the work ahead. A project management
advisory group is proposed to advise and assist PLN in this regard. This
group would consist of an engineer/project manager and three senior experts in
planning and scheduling, cost engineering, and systems, methods and procedures.
Apart from these full-time members, the services of specialist construction
/1   The station will consist of four units of 400 MW and three units of
500 MW.



- 16 -
engineers, a project accountant, computer programmer and procurement experts
may be needed for short periods. The group will function for two years.
51.       PLN has a program to expand its Tanjung Priok Training Center
to provide high level training in the maintenance and operation of large
steam generating units. MONENCO's proposal for training of personnel for the
operation of the Suralaya thermal station will form part of this program and
is included in the scope of the proposed project.
52.       The Saguling hydroelectric project is currently under detailed
investigation and design. Feasibility stage investigations were financed
through Cr. 399-IND. On Bank advice, PLN appointed a Special Board of
Consultants for this project using funds under Cr. 399-IND and Cr. 451-IND.
It is considered essential that the work of this Special Board of Consultants
should continue and funds are provided in the proposed loan to cover the
remaining foreign costs involved.
The Beneficiary
53.       The beneficiary would be PLN, the National Electricity Authority.
PLN's current charter is the 1972 Government Regulation No. 18, which changed
its status from a department of the Ministry of Public Works and Electric
Power to an autonomous unit. The Director-General of the Ministry which then
controlled PLN was abolished in 1972 and PLN began to play a leading role in
the country's electricity development. PLN has grown in stature and improved
its public image in recent years; it now promises to become an effective
agency which could develop into a strong commercially oriented public utility
within a few years.
54.       After the recent reorganization of the Government in May 1978,
including the establishment of a Ministry for IMines and Energy, the post of
Director General of Electric Power has been revived to oversee PLN's operations
and the Directorate has been strengthened. Steps are also being taken to
amend PLN's charter, with the objective of retaining with the Government the
functions of overall sector planning, licensing and determining the role of
the private sector. PLN's present autonomous status is, however, expected to
remain unchanged. An understanding was reached with the Government that the
Bank will be given the opportunity to comment on the contemplated changes in
PLN's charter before it is amended.
55.       PLN is organized and functions as a modern public utility with a
fair degree of autonomy. The Board is statutorily bound to have a President
Director and at least two other directors. Currently, the Board comprises the
President Director and five others; all are executive directors and each
heads a department in the head office - planning, operations, construction,
finance and administration. In the field, there are 15 regional or wilayah
offices with a total of about 100 branches. Regions are responsible for
minor construction and the construction department is responsible for all
major project construction. PLN's implementation capacity and operational
efficiency have shown signs of marked improvement during the past years. Much
work remains to be done and PLN is continually reviewing its procedures and
operations to ensure that this progress is maintained.



- 17 -
Engineering and Construction
56.       MONENCO will be responsible for engineering, design and construc-
tion supervision of the Suralaya power station, except for the EHV step-up
substation. The first phase of the work - preparation of designs, bidding
documents and assistance to PLN in evaluating bids - is now in progress. Bid
documents for the main equipment were approved by the Bank and issued on
April 16, 1979, which was a critical step in project implementation. The
design and construction of the EHV substation at Suralaya will be carried out
by Merz and McLellan of the UK, also selected in consultation with the Bank
for planning and detailed engineering of the EHV project. Funds for this
work were provided under Loan 1365-IND. The cost of engineering and cons-
truction supervision is estimated at $12.0 million. About 2,400 man-months
are involved, and the average man-month rate is $5,000 which includes salary,
overhead, foreign travel and applicable social benefits but excludes housing
which will be provided by PLN.
57.       The implementation program is tight, particularly in the early
stages, up to decisions on contracts. In view of the size of the proposed
project and the prospects of implementation delays, an understanding was
reached with the Government during negotiations that the Government agencies
concerned will take the necessary steps to ensure that implementation will be
in accordance with the proposed project construction schedule. Furthermore
during the next Bank-Government project implementation review scheduled for
June 1979 (para. 24 above) appropriate measures designed to simplify the
procedures for procurement and payment on contracts, including opening of
letters of credit will be discussed between the Government officials and the
Bank staff.
58.       PLN's Construction Department has general responsibility for
the construction of all projects. In practice the project manager becomes
responsible for management of construction at site only after contracts
are awarded. Experience in implementation of ongoing power projects has
shown that the present system does not give project managers direct respon-
sibility for the entire project since responsibility for various aspects of
implementation still remains fragmented throughout PLN's organization.
Monitoring of critical steps and control is not adequate and delays occur.
In view of the complex implementation schedule of this major project, PLN
has appointed its Director of Planning to take overall responsibility for the
timely implementation of this project together with its associated and trans-
mission systems.  This Director will be responsible, among his other duties,
for coordinating and securing action on financing, progress of engineering,
procurement matters, cost estimating, control of expenditures and reporting.
Cost Estimate and Financing
59.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $374.2 million,
of which about $207 million is the foreign currency cost. The cost estimate
was prepared by PLN with the assistance of MONENCO - the consultant appointed
in October 1978 for detailed engineering and supervision of construction;
Loan 1513-IND for the Power VII project provided financing for this work.
The estimate includes physical contingencies amounting to about 6% and price



- 18 -
contingencies of about 40% of the total base cost, including physical con-
tingencies. The prices are net of customs duties, as all imports financed from
aid funds are exempt from payment of duties.
60.       Out of the estimated direct foreign currency cost of $207 million,
$3.0 million is covered by Ln. 1513-IND, where a provision was made to finance
part of the cost of engineering of this project. A Bank loan of $175.0 mil-
lion is proposed to cover a major part of the estimated foreign currency cost
of the project, leaving a gap of $28.8 million which will be met by the Govern-
ment through cofinancing arrangements or from its own budget. The Government
will make the proceeds of the proposed loan available to PLN on the same terms
as the Bank loan under a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the Bank.
The signing of the subsidiary loan agreement will be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government.
The project is expected to be financed as follows:
$ million equivalent
Loan 1513-IND (Engineering)                            3.0
Proposed Bank loan                                   175.0
Co-financing or Government's funds                    28.8
PLN' own resources & budget allocations              167.4
Total                                 374.2
61.       The Government has been informed that co-financing arrangements
should be made as early as possible. Assurances were obtained that the
Government will provide the necessary funds to complete the project in
accordance with the implementation program (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       Procurement of goods would be on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Indonesian equipment
manufacturers are unlikely to qualify but if they do, a 15% margin of pre-
ference on the c.i.f. price, or the prevailing duties, if lower, will be
applicable for purposes of bid evaluation. Civil works contracts, which the
Government wishes to finance entirely from its own sources, will be awarded
in accordance with normal Government procedures which are satisfactory to the
Bank.  Engineering consultants financed under the proposed loan would design
these works and supervise the construction.
63.       The Bank loan will be disbursed against the following items:
(a) equipment - 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
goods, 95% of the ex-factory cost for locally manufactured
goods and 65% of the total expenditures for imported goods
procured locally; and
(b) consultants' services and training - 100% of foreign expenditures.



- 19 -
The proceeds of the proposed loan would be used to finance the foreign
exchange costs of the following goods and services: boilers and auxiliaries;
generators and auxiliaries; engineering and supervision; training of operators;
project management advisory group; and the Special Board of Consultants for
the Saguling hydroelectric project.
Financial Aspects of PLN
64.       Past Performance.  PLN's performance was closely linked with the
Financial Recovery Plan included in the West Java Thermal Power Project,
financed under Credit 399-IND, approved in 1973. The plan's objective was to
cover operating costs from revenues in FY79; the objective was achieved in
FY77, two years ahead of schedule, mainly because tariffs were increased
substantially between FY72 and FY77.
Contribution to Investment and Tariffs
65.       Under Loan 1513-IND it was agreed that PLN would make gradually
increasing contributions to its investment program from its internal cash
generation and that as indicative targets these contributions would be as
follows:
Three-year                                 Percentages
periods                                for consecutive
ending in                              three-year periods
FY79                                          17%
FY80, 81 and 82                               21%
FY83, 84 and 85                               25%
FY86 and after                                30%
In 1978 PLN was, however, unable to obtain the Government's approval to
increase its tariffs, and as a result it is not expected to achieve the 17%
target for the period ending 1979. Furthermore, PLN has, in the meantime,
made some changes in its investment program which, coupled with the November
rupiah devaluation, required upward adjustments in the cost estimates of its
expansion program. Consequently, it has been necessary to make some modi-
fications in the indicative level of PLN's contributions to its investment
which in accordance with the understanding reached with PLN at negotiations,
would be as follows:
Three-year                                Percentages
periods                                for consecutive
ending in                              three-year periods
FY80 and 81                                    12%
FY82 and 83                                    18%
FY84 and 85                                    25%



- 20 -
It was also agreed at negotiations that the level of PLN's contributions
to its investment costs would still be at least 30% after PLN's fiscal year
1985/86 (Section 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement). PLN is not in de-
fault under Ln. 1513-IND because its commitment to the fixed 30% level of
contribution to its investment is related to the period after 1985/86; for the
interim periods PLN is required to achieve gradually increasing indicative
targets which are shown above.
66.       In order to meet the cash contribution targets mentioned in the
preceding paragraph, PLN will have to increase its revenues by taking the
necessary steps, including adjustments in the level of its tariffs. PLN has
submitted to the Government a proposal to increase its tariffs and to revise
the structure of the tariffs to reflect as closely as possible the long-run
marginal cost of the supply. The Government has informed the Bank that PLN's
proposals have been in principle approved and that the new tariffs will be
implemented in the near future and in any case before the end of the current
fiscal year (March 31, 1980).
67.       Although PLN succeeded in achieving the objectives of the Recovery
Plan two years ahead of schedule, inadequate evaluation of system development
programs of past years has left PLN with some uneconomic and nonviable systems
with low plant utilization throughout the country. System losses, which
averaged about 25% for the whole country for FY78, continue to be comparatively
high and arise from overloaded distribution systems that require rehabilita-
tion and strengthening, replacement, recalibration and extension of metering,
and prevention of theft. Improvements in the operational efficiency of PLN's
regional units (Wilayahs) by setting target rates of return on fixed assets
based on consumer connection and loss reduction programs, investment, avail-
able manpower, and the least cost solution criteria are necessary to remedy
some of these deficiencies. PLN's management is aware of these problems and
intends to actively address them. An understanding was reached during nego-
tiations that PLN would keep the Bank informed of the steps taken to improve
PLN's operational efficiency in the Wilayahs and that PLN's assets would be
revalued annually on the basis of the Gross Domestic Deflator computed by the
Central Bureau of Statistics.
68.       Debt Coverage Tests.  The existing covenants on debt coverage tests
which stipulate a debt/equity ratio of 60:40 and a debt service coverage of
1.5 will continue to apply to avoid excessive medium-term borrowing and to
keep overall borrowing at reasonable levels.
Benefits and Justification
69.       The project is part of an expansion program to provide urgently
needed base load generating capacity in Java. It is the next step in the
least-cost sequence of generation expansion, established by the Java System
Development Study; this sequence remains unchanged when tested for sensi-
tivity within the wide limits of the latest sales forecasts and the consul-
tants' high load forecast. The results were tested for discount rates up
to 15%.
70.       The internal economic rate of return calculated by a discount
rate equalizing the economic costs and benefits attributable to the project
is 12%, which is satisfactory. The expected cost of coal delivered at



- 21 -
Suralaya ($22.5/ton) was used in the cost stream and incremental revenues
were based on the prevailing average 1978 electricity price of Rp 27.3 to
measure benefits. The expected increase in the average tariff level would
increase the internal economic rate of return on the project.
71.       The project is expected to achieve further improvements in PLN's
organization and enable it to cope with its statutory and growing respon-
sibilities.
Risks
72.       There are no engineering risks as there are no inherent uncertain-
ties. Site conditions are favorable and an experienced consultant is assist-
ing PlN in project implementation. There is a risk of delay, however, beyond
the control of the consultant and PLN, caused by existing time-consiin-ILTIg
procedures of PLN's bid evaluations for procurement of goods and payments on
contracts awarded. In order to avoid this risk, an understanding was reached
at negotiations that projeci: contracts and procurement documents will be
processed in accordance with the implementation schedule of the project, and
that the problems causing delays in opening letters of credit will jointly be
reviewed between the Governaelit and the Bank (para. 24 above).
73.       There is a remote possibility that a part of the investment (about
$10 million) on this project required for making the steam generator als)
Saitable for coal firing may remain idle for so-e tbie if the implementation
of the Bukit Asam coal Trini- ac;Ul rrai;_1)rtation project is postponed for
economic or other reasons.  This postponement is unltkel.y becaise the delivered
cost of coal would be substantially ;l-.4e tbin the estimated economic breakeven
cost of about $37.0/ton at prevailing oil prices.
74.       There will be no detrimental effect on the local ecological system.
Possible environmental efFeo(-c  o' i:he project have been carefully considered
by 14MUEUNCO aii? PLN in choosing the Suralaya site for the fitrst power station
in Java which will utilize coal.  The site is located in a remote corner of
the West Java coast. The station location and design features to deal with
stack emission and ash disposal reduce the environmental impact to a mnlilnill.
Indonesia has not ruled on environmental standards but PLN is following
standards established by the Environmental Protection Aven(y of 'he 64 iited
States for the design of its thermial power staitLons.  The stack (200 m
high) has been designed to keep emissions within these standards when the
power station operates on Indonesian coal which has a low sulphur content
(0.5%). Ash from the station will be conveyed to an adjoining dump area,
where the natural configuration permits good drainage. Colonies and camps for
permanent employees and construction workers have been planned as pari-t of the
project works; regulations for their safety and occupational health will be
enforced by PLN.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Perusahaan Umum
Listrik Negara (PLN), and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
76.       In addition to the special features of the Loan and Project
Agreements which are referred to in Section III of Annex III, additional
conditions of effectiveness of the Loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement) include:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of PLN has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and govern-
mental action; and
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of the
Borrower and PLN, has been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
May 14, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                           ANNE  I
Page 1 of 5
_SNDONEST4 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFEREN.CE 1P.)t'PS (Al' ICSTED AVERACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. K04                   IfDOttSIA K                       tMOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1904.3                                                    SAtt.        SAYE      NEXT HIGHER
ARICULTURAL      283.8                                 MOST RECENT      GEOCRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960  /     1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /I
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   70.0        140.0     300.0           616.0       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(K1LOGRAflS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     129.0       120.0      178.0           522.0       88.9        251.7
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION. MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        94.7        117.6     133.5
URBAtt POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.9        17.5       17.9            30.!       1S.          24.2
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                        50.0        62.0       70.0           156.8       46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. ArRICULTURAL LAND    337.0        419.0     470.0            794.8      254.1         95.0
POPULATION ArE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.1 /f     44.0       42.1            40.8       43.6         44.9
15-64 nIS.                         55.3 Z       53.5      55.1             55.4       53.3         52.8
65 TUS. AND ABOVE                    2.6 I       2.5        2.8             3.2         2.9         3.0
Po0'UATION GROWTH RATE (PRCEHNT) 
IOT4L                               2.1         2.0        2.0             2.3        2.4          2.7
LaBAN                                 .         3..7 L     2.6             5.1        4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.0        45.9       40.3            34.6        44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      25.4        20.6       19.9             8.7        19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8         3.2        2.5             2.6         2.9         3.2
PAM(ILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        .        181.1    1979.0
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOHEN)    .           0.2       13.7            22.1        14.6        14.2
FOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF iOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              96.5       100.0     102.7            106.8       96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    89.0        91.0      98.0            108.7       92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           43.0        43.0      43.8             57.7       50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        15.0 /h     14.0       16.6            17.0        13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..           .         .-             4.0                     7.5
HEALTH
L1PE EXPECTANCY AT BIXRTH (YEARS)    47.5        45.0       45.3            59.0        45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           125.0 /f1.      ..     116.0            44O        102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         3.0       11.0            21.9        26.4        31.1
URAN W                                         10.0       41.0            58.3        63.5        68.5
RURAL                                .          1.0        4.0             9.8        14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
of POPULATION)
TOTAL                                .         12.0       15.0            28.6        16.1        37.5
UUhNA                                          50.0       60.0            66.6        65.9        69.5
RAL                                             4.0        5.0            14.8         3.4        25.4
POPULATI(N PER PHYSICIAN          41380.0 Li  26830.0   16930.0           4103.1    13432.7       9359.2
POPUMATION PER NURSINC PERSON          .       7770.0 j  7310.0 /1        1520.2     6963.i       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TDTAL                            1370.0      1670.0    1430.0            657.1      1157.6       786.5
URBANI                               w       1130.0         ..           145.5       183.3       278.4
WAAL                                 ..      1890.0         ..          1011.8      1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL ISED                        .                       19.0        19.5        19.2
DOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.4         4.8         .              5.2         5.2
URAN                                4.9         5.3         .              5.2         4.8
RURAL                               4.3         4.7                        5.4         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                           1.5         .*
UlUIAN                               ..         16          ..        6                1.8         2.3 
URAL                                            1.6         t.
ACCESS TO ELECTEICI-Y (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                . *r                                 39.1        25.9        28.3
URBAN
RURAL                                                                                             lo :; .  ..  8.7  10.i



- 24-                                                  ANEX I
Page 2 of 5
1DONZIEsA- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (A.DJJsTEf AVERAGES
IIIDOIESIA                                              a
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
HOST RECENT     CEOCRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOHE
1960 tb     1970 tb ESTIMATE lb       REGION tC   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 67.0        75.0      81.0             95.6       62.9         75.S
FEMALE               55.0         70.0      75.0             93.7       45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  6.0        15.0       18.0            43.3        14.4        17.7
FEKALE                3.0         tl.0      13.0             38.6        8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 20.0         22.0       21.0            11.3         6.6         7.4
PUPLL-TEAQER RATIO
PRDIART                            39.0        29.0       30.0            30.0        38.5        34.3
SECONDAMY                          14.0        13.0       15.0            25.4        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        47.0 tx     59.0       62.0 /k         84.0        36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0         2.0        3.0             9.3        3.1          7.2
IDIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POrUIATIu N                         7.0          ..      39.0             97.6       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.7         ..            21.8        2.8         14.1
NEISPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..          ..       16.0            25.9         6.0        16.3
CINE4A ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..             4.6         1.4         1.6
DIPLOYTENT
TOTAL LABOR PORCE (THOUSANDS)    34600.0      44200.0  48430.0 /t.
InKALE (PERCENT)                   27.9        31.0      34.2             33.2       24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              75.0        69.0       60.1            48.4       60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.4         9.7       8.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENr)
TOTAL                                54.1        49.9       52.6            38.9        39.8        37.8
HALE                                 79.8        68.7       73.8            48.6        53.3        50.3
E!ALE                                29.4        32.1       36.8            28.4        19.6        20.9
ICOOPCLIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4         1.3        1.2             1.2         1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE LNCOME
RECEIVED BY
RICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        33.7 Iv      ..            17.3        20.3        19.5
IIGNEST 20 PERCEHT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         52.014       ..            45.6       45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         6.8 t       *-             6.5         5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        17.3 14       -            17.3        16.6        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCCM
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      125.0           140.8        88.5       155.9
IRURAL                               ..          ..       95.0           112.8        71.9        97.9
ESTIDATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..       100.8       143.7
RU1AL                                ..          ..       55.0            76.8        42.0        87.3
ESTIKATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOKE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..       55.0            27.7        46.0        22.9
RURAL                                ..          ..       59.0            40.4        48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
t     Th  adjusted group average& for each indi acor are population-weiRhted geometric means  excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifors.
U Unles  otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betveen 1959 end 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recant Eatinate, between 1973 and 1977.
Cc East Asia & Pacific;   Id  Low Incom  (5280 or less per capita 1976);  /a  Lower Middle Inco_e (5281-550
per capita. 1976);  /f  Excludes W. Irian;  LI  1961-71;  /h  1961-63;   Li  1962;   a    Including
ddvIves;  L4   Aged 10 years and over;   LI Excludes rural ereas In Eeast Nu   Tenggara, Maluku and
Irtso Jay&; La Income recipients.
September 1978



2(5  -
DIFINITIOlS 0? SOCAL ZIPICATORS                                     ANNEX   I
Page 3 of 5
lot:    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geomtric mane, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the  ont
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries aong the indicators depends on availability of dat' and is not uniform. Due to lack of date,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Rxportars and indicators of access to water and exerste disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extrea values.
LIJD ARA (thousand sq. kh)                                                            PoDlation por hospital bed - total, urban, end rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                     urb, nd rural) divided by their  eepsctivs number of hospital beds
Mtricultural - Most recent estimte of agricultural area used tmporarily                available in public and private general and specializsd hospital and re-
or prmanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitation centers.  Hospitals er esatablishments permanently staffed by
lie fellow                                                                           at least one physician.  Etatblishments providing principally custodisi
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health end medi-
GNP PER CAPITA fUS$) - CNP per capita estimates at current market prices,               cal centers not permnently stffed by a physician (but by a medical a-
calculated by saen  conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);           sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accomnodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                           provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions   r hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENURg  COSSUNPTIOM PER CAPITA - Annual consu.mption of commsercial energy               frum hospitrls divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilogrems of coal equivalent per capita.                HOUSING
Average sire of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPUIATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                         A household consists of a group of individual, who shar-  living quarters
Total population. mid-vear (millions) - As of July 1; if not available.                and their nain  ea1s.  A bo-rder on lodger may or nay not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970. and 1977 data,                        the household for statistical purposes.   Stattitical definitions of house-
Urban  pulation fpercent of total) - Ratio of urban to total populs-                   hold very.
tion; different definitions of urban ereas may affect comparability               Average number of persons per room - total, urbon, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                             ber of persons per room in all, urban, end rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                     dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-pernanest structureo and
Per  sq. ho. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                    Access to electricity (percen.t of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. ho. agriculture land - Computed ss above for agricultural land                Conventional dwellings with electricity in ltivig quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                of total, urban, end rural dwellings respectively.
Population ace structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yeacr), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-           EDtCATION
year population.                                                                 Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total. and urban - Compound annual                Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                    at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                populations; normally imcludes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                   different lengths of primry education; for countries with universal edo-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                 cation enrollment nay exceed 100 percent since some pupils are belov or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                  above the official school age.
Crude death ratc (fer thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                 Secondary school - total, and female - Computed an aboye; cecondary educa-
year population; tca-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                tiom requires et least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
sad five-year  average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                      vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupil.
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of d-ughterc  a woman will bear               usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correnpondenc courses  are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences prement age-                     cluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,              Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational icotitutions in-
1970, end 1975.                                                                      clude technical, industrial, or other prograno which operate independently
Family plannine - acceptors, annual (thousands) - AnnU-1 number of                     or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family             Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total stad-nts enrolled in
planning program,                                                                    primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the  orre-
Falily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                     sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control           Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to road and write) as
devices to a11 married women in suns age group,                                      a percentage of total adult population aged 1S years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                  CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                Passenger cars (pe- thousand population) - Panne-ger cart  .onyrise mocur cars
capita annmul production of all food commodities,                                  seating less than eight persons; excldes ahbulunoen, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from              vehicles.
energy equivalent of net fond supplies available in country per capita           Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less            broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; encluIde  unliceonsd
exports, and changes  in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,          receivers in countries and in yeors ehen mogistrstion of radio ucts was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-               effect; dats for recent years nay not be comparable since most countries
quirnments were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-             abolished licensing.
-e1 activity and health considering eavironmental temperature, body              TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcant to general
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-               public per thousand population; excludes unlicenced TV r-c-ivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level,                                                   tries and in yearn when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protdin (pras per day) - Protein content of per                Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                 tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a p-riudical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for               cation devoted primarily to recording general noun   It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grems of total protein per day and 20 greas                be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 greas should be animal protein.         Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based cn tie camber of tickets
These standards are lower than those or 75 grams of total protein and                sold during the year, including admissions to dri-icrS  cinemas and nubile
23 gras of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                   units.
FAP in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food          EMPLOYMENT
derived from animal and pulses in grams per day.                                 Total labor force (thnu.a.nd) - Economically active pyrsono, i-cluding armed
Child (sass 1-4) martality rate (per thousand) - Ansual deaths par thous-              forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, stodento, ec.  iefini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                           tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor forc- as percentage of total labor force
HEALTH                                                                               Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forentry, huoting and f-ching
Life empectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                    *a percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960. 1970.             Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, constroction, nancfacturicg and
and 1975.                                                                            electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under               Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, nule, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                            fenale labor force an percentagea of their respect-ve popclaticon
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -               Th.se are ILI0  adjusted participation rates refl-ting ace-nec
Number of people (total, orban, and rural) with reasonable access to                 strunctro  of the popolation. -od lonp tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but               Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 cod 65 aod coa  to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                 the labor force in age gro-p of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wella) *a percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpoat located not more                INCO'E DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-               Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest S
somable anoes of that house.  Is r-rel ares  reasonable accean uo.Id                 peecont, richest 20 p-ecent, poorest 20 prrcent, and pooreut 4S percent
imply that the housewife or embers of the household do not have to                   of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the faily's
water needs.                                                                     POvERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excrete disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and             Eftimated absolute poverty income level (il$ prr capita) - urban and rota'
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by enmelst                    Absolute poverty income level in that income level below uhich acconh o-
disposal as percentages of their respective populations  Efrotes                     nutritionally adequate diet plus  sonential nor-food requirements Sio ot
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                    affordable.
treatment, of human excrete and waste-water by water-borne systems                E.timated relativa poverty income level (US$ par capita) - urban and cora  -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                 Relative poverty inoome level it that incom-  level loon that cor-t-d
Population per physician - Population divided by number of pr-cticing                  per capita personal incone of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at uoiv-rnity level.                   Estimated population below poventy incone level (Percet) - urban cod rucal -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                        Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolut  foot" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                    "relative poor" whichever in greater.
assistant nurses.
Econonic   aly Social Ic-., Di--ooct
tonnoic Acalynin cod P-c1-r1cer  P-crto-t



- 26-                                    ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977 -                                      ANNUAL RKTE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ M1.    _                            1960-65            1965-70       1971-77
GNP at Market Prices          44,386       100.0                         1.9                4.9           7.8
Gross Domestic Investment      8,667        19.5                         3.3               11.5          13.4
Gross National Saving          8,448        19.0                         5.8                5.1          16.9
Current Account Balance      -   725     - 1.6
Exports of Goods, NFS          7,592        17.1                         1.5                7.8          10.0
Imports of Goods, NFS          7,489        16.9                         0.2               10.9          18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
I/
Value Added                   Labor Force-                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                         miNn.      %                    E_$ff
Agriculture                   11,624      31.1                 35.3      62.6                  329         49.7
Industry                      12,672      33.9                  4.7       8.3                2,696        407.3
Services                      13,043      35.0                 13.4      23.8                  973        147.0
Unallocated                     -           -                   3.0       5.3
Total/Average
37,339     100.0                 56.4                            6          10o0.
OOVERNENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNNENT
(Rp. Billion)      _                                    of GDP
1976/77            1977/78                          1976                 1977
Current Receipts              2,877              3,535                           18.6                 18.6
Current Expenditure           1,610              2,149                           10.4                 11.3
Current Surplus               1,267              1,387                            8.2                  7.3
Capital Expenditures          2,044              2,157                           13.2                 11.3
External Assistance (net)       784                773                            5.0                  4.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1972         1973         1974        1975        1976         1977
Yillion Rp  outstanding end periodT 
Money and Quasi Money                      695           987       1,452       1,978        2,631       3,147
Bank credit to Public Sector               129          153          209         990        1,051         865
Bank Credit to Private Sector              524          932        1,186       1,376        1,737       2,063
(Percentages or Index Numbers.)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           15.2          14.6        14.8        16.3         17.0        16.5
General Price Index (1966  - 100)          807        1;028'       1,370       1,640        1,873       2,094
Annual percentage changes in:
Oeneral Price Index                         25.7         27.4         33.3        19.7         14.2        11.8
Bank credit to Public Sector               -14.0         18.6         36.6       473.7          6.2       -17.7
Bank credit to Private Sector               65.3         77.9      - 27.2         16.0        26.2         18.8
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 415 - US$1
-it Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first Job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 28, 1979
)



- 27 -                            W ANNEX I
- 27 -                    ~~~~~~~Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1975     1976      1977(Provisional)                                   US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports:                      4,738   6,183    7,592                 Oil                                2,906      57.1
Oil (net)                    2,921   3,567    4,243                Timber                               605      11.9
Non oil                      1,817   2,216    3,349                Rubber                               461       9.1
Imports                      -5,533  -6,352   -7,489                 Palm Oil                             117       2.3
Resource Gap               -  795  -  169        103               Tin                                  107       2.1
Factor service:              -  462  -  646   -  828                 Coffee                               104       2.0
Interest                   -  178  -  362   -  473
Investment Income          -  284 --  284   -  355                  All other commodities               791     15.5
Balance on Current Account  -1,257  -  8T-  -  725                          Total                       5,79T_  100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       497      329       286              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements              2,395   2,327    1,988                                                            US $ Mln
Amortization              -  322  -  625   -  826
Subtotal                   2,073   1,702    1,162                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              11,391
Capital Grants                           ..        ..                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)          -2,250  -  205   )474                    Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i            -   46  -  604   )I/_2
Increase in Reserves (+)    -  983       736    1,197               DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977-  2/
Gross Reserves (end year)       590   1,494    2,494
Net Reserves   (end year)       490   1,226    2,423                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               17.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                        93      119        28
of which:  Petroleum         89      114        26
Exports
of which:  Petroleum      2,921   3,567    4,243          IBRD/IDA LENDING,(March 31, 1979)(Million US $)
,=ATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                        IBRD         IDA
2/               Outstanding & Disbursed               616.4      454.1
Throuqh- Aug. 1971              Since  -  1971-                  Undisbursed                        1,286.6       185.6
JuS $ 1.00   Rp A 375           US $ 1.00 = Rp 415               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    1,286           679.7
Rp   1000   US $2.67            Rp   1000 =US $2.41             Ottnigmi    nibre                    ,0.          7.
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services. with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
2/  Since 11/15/78
US$ 1.00 = Rp 625
Rp 1000 = US$ 1.60
not available
not applicable
East Asia 6 Pacific Programs
March 31, 1979



- 28-                     ANNFX II
Page 1 of 20 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year                 Purpose                        Bank   IDA  lUndisbursed
One Loan and seventeen Credits fully disbursed               50.0  228.1         -
220     1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                      14.5       0.2
259     1971    Tea                                                  15.0       0.6
260     1971    Second Highway                                       34.0       0.2
289     1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                     12.5       0.2
300      1972    Population                                          13.2       3.0
318     1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                     8.5       1.8
319     1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates                          11.0       2.0
355     1973    Beef Cattle Development                               3.6       0.2
358     1973    North Sumatra Smallholder Development                 5.0       0.8
387     1973    Third Education                                      13.5       4.7
388     1973    Third Highway                                        14.0       0.1
399     1973    West Java Thermal Power                              46.0       3.7
400     1973    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                    7.8       6.3
405      1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                       50.0       0.8
428     1974    Pulo Cadung Industrial Estate                        16.5      10.1
436      1974    Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                                10.0       0.7
451     1974    Fourth Technical Assistance                           5.0       1.9
479      1974    Bali Tourism                                        16.0      10.4
480      1974    Fisheries Credit                                     6.5       1.9
514     1975    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                       30.0      22.4
785     1978    Small Enterprise Development Project                 40.0      34.5
827     1978    Rural Credit                                         30.0      30.0
869      1979    Polytechnic /a                                      49.0      49.0
1005    1974    Railway                                      48.0               3.9
1040    1975    Jakarta IJrhan Development                   25.0              2.5
1049    1975    Five Cities Water Supply                     14.5              8.4
1089    1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion                 115.0               1.3
1100    1975    Sixth Irrigation                             65.0             49.0
1127    1975    Fourth Power                                 41.0               3.8
1139    1976    Fertilizer Distribution                      68.0               1.1
1179    1976    Agricultural Research & Extension            21.5              18.4
1197    1976    National Resource Survey & Mapping           13.0              8.5
1236    1976    Fourth Highway                              130.0             98.4
/a Not yet effective.



- 29-                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year                 Purpose                       Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1237    1976    Fourth Education                            37.0              30.9
1250    1976    Second Shipping                             54.0              46.6
1254    1976    Third Fertilizer Expansion                  70.0              13.5
1259    1976    Fifth Power                                 90.0              72.9
1267    1976    National Food Crops Extension               22.0              15.5
1268    1976    Seventh Irrigation                          33.0              21.0
1318    1977    Transmigration and Rural
Development                              30.0              22.5
1336    1977    Second Urban Development                    52.5              21.9
1337    1977    Tanjung Priok Port                          32.0              22.9
1363    1977    Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                              15.0               12.5
1365    1977    Sixth Power                                116.0              84.8
1373    1977    Nutrition Development                       13.0              12.9
1433    1977    Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.0              17.8
1434    1977    Eighth Irrigation                           63.0              61.1
1435    1977    Ninth Irrigation                            35.0              31.0
1437    1977    Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                           40.0               26.6
1472    1977    Second Population                           24.5              23.3
1486    1978    Non-Formal Education                        15.0              14.2
1499    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I          65.0              60.4
1513    1978    Seventh Power                              109.0             108.4
S 009   1978    Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport
Engineering                               10.0               8.7
1578    1978    Tenth Irrigation                           140.0             137.0
1579    1978    Eleventh Irrigation                         31.0              29.0
1604    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II         65.0              65.0
1645    1979    Irrigation XII /a                           77.0              77.0
1653    1979    Third Urban Development /a                  54.0              54.0
Total                                           1,903.0  679.7   1,472.2
of which has been repaid                         16.7    0.0
Total now outstanding                           1,886.3  679.7
Amount sold                                        28.1    0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA lb               1,858.2  679.7
Total undisbursed                               1,286.6  185.6   1,472.2
/a Not yet effective.
/b  Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 30-                 ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1979)
Fiscal                               Type of                   US$ million
Year        Obligor                  business            Loan    Equity    Total
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6      2.5       13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5      0.8        3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia              Textiles             2.0      0.5         2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8      0.4        3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.           Textiles              4.5     1.5         6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0       -        11.0
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4      0.7        6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia              Textiles             2.0      0.3         2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9       -         0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.       -       0.5        0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4      0.6        3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0      1.5        6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                -       1.1        1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.           Textiles              0.3      -          0.3
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.4      0.1        1.5
Total                                               50.8    10.5        61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 29.7      1.8       31.5
Total held by IFC                                   21.1     8.7        29.8
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)         -       -           -



- 31--                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                   Pages
Irrigation (Cr. 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,
1579 and 1645/2)                                                5-6
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,
405, 480, Ln. 1318, 1499 and 1604)          6-9
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                             9-10
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                    10
Education (Cr. 387, 869/2, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                           11-12
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                                   12-13
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                   14
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                                14
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1437, Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)              15
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                       15
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                           15-16
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                        16
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                   16-17
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                          17
Highways (Ln. 1236)                                                         17
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                     18
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                            18
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                         18
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                             19
Urban Development (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653/2)                                 19-20
Water Supply (Ln. 1049)                                                       20
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
/2 Not yet effective.



- 32 -                  ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
ACRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 150% over the
appraisal estimate, due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and
unexpected inflation. The project is expected to be completed shortly.
Feasibility studies included in the project have been concluded and ground-
water investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140%
over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but
construction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable major changes in
the design of the Sampean Baru dam and unit price increases in other compo-
nents. These will be verified as bids are received for the major contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have engaged the consultants. Construc-
tion is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary development areas, and
studies being funded under the project are expected to be completed shortly.
The mapping program is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead
of schedule.



- 33                     ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Disbursements are somewhat ahead of schedule, and the project is
being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing satis-
factorily. Some tender documents have been prepared and contracts are
expected to be let this year. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Initial delays in hiring consultants and in preparing tender
documents are slipping the start of project construction behind the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16. 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  US$77 Million Loan of December 29,
1978. Not yet effective; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded



- 34-                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20 pages
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30x. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above appraisal
estimate, but the economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over
20%.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good, with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha, of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting. Technical problems exist in processing
and equipment maintenance, but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
also participating in the Transmigration and Rural Development Project
(Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems seriously delayed project implementation. The
Government's budget allocation was insufficient, and financial management and
coordination were weak. Changes in the scope and design of the project,
from one of breeding and fattening of beef cattle for export to that of
production of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and breeding
animals, were approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977. The project
was reviewed in November 1977 and May 1978 and is now being implemented
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, and the expected program of
planting rubber and oil palm by smallholders was accomplished at the end of
1977. By 1981, when the project is completed, these plantings will have been
brought to maturity. The Government has decided not to expand the project in
its present location because of the extensive support already being given to
North Sumatra Province through this and other Bank-supported projects;



- 35-                   ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20 pages
instead, the Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for smallholder
development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Since smallholders and estates prefer a heavier concentration on
replanting and less on rehabilitation, the mix had to be changed, thereby
reducing the overall area from 13,200 ha to about 10,200 ha. Although
production will not be affected, since yields from replanted tea are higher
than from rehabilitated tea, costs will exceed appraisal estimates by about
77%, since replanting is more expensive than rehabilitation and costs have
generally increased because of inflation. Delays were experienced in imple-
menting the institutional framework for long-term lending, a new venture for
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). Because of this, and difficulties in involving
the private estates in the project, disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates. A major review of the project is currently being undertaken by the
Resident Staff in Indonesia. While the project has experienced difficulties,
it is estimated that, because of the project-induced spin-off effects, an
area at least equal in size to the project is being improved. Over 500
farmers' groups have been formed to improve tea production supported by a
project training program presently involving nearly 4,000 farmers. These
developments have been helped by a surge in tea prices (2-1/2 times appraisal
estimates). Considerable investment in factory and field development is
taking place outside the project, largely financed by short- and medium-term
loans from BRI and by private investors.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1979.
The rehabilitation of two sugar factories and the construction
of one new factory, financed by the Credit, have been completed on schedule
and trial runs are taking place. The research part of the project is slow in
materializing; the sugar research station still requires a major consultant
input. The two PTPs involved in the rehabilitation process are both in a
particularly weak financial position, and this problem requires attention.
The Government has started an evaluation of the financial status of the
industry, but progress of this study is slow.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the overall project is now about
18 months behind schedule. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is



-36-                     ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20 pages
virtually completed. Boat construction is under way and all related equip-
ment is on site, ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond
lending has suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind ap-
praisal estimates, partly because of the initial delay in project effective-
ness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate fer-
tilizer supplies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half
originates from construction and rubber planting. These incomes are substan-
tially above incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence of the
relative attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous settlers have
already been attracted to the site. In the existing settled area at Way
Abung, there has been little improvement in incomes because fertilisers are
not available on site and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash
crops. Experience to date highlights the need for improving project manage-
ment and ensuring that agricultural support services and input supply systems
are in place as settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12. 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This loan became effective in January 1978. Project implementation
has started slowly, due to inadequate budgeting of local funds and appoint-
ment of key consultants. Land clearing is in progress and planting material
is being distributed to smallholders.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan has recently become effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension I: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and condi-
tions of employment of consultants, including architects and engineers, the



_37                      ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20 pages
project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation estimates.
Design of all civil works has been completed, construction of extension
information centers is progressing well and expected to be completed in FY79,
and the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) plans to let
contracts for the remaining civil works shortly. At the present projected
pace of implementation all components, except fellowships, could be completed
by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension; US$22 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created. Ap-
pointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project director-
ate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional Assistant
Directors. Civil works have been resumed and, after recent approval of
prefinancing requests for 1977-78, the training program has been started.
Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing difficulties
and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with supporting documen-
tation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for prefinancing
(outlined by the Finance Ministry in October 1978) is expected to help solve
the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
This credit became effective on August 17, 1978. Despite start-up
difficulties, Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progressing and preparation for studies is on schedule.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30.0 Million Credit of June 23. 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallhold-
ers, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical
assistance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. BRI,
the implementing agency, is in the process of evaluating proposals for
project consultancy and preparing the lending program for the first year
(April 1, 1979 to March 30, 1980).



-38-                     ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20 pages
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory personnel. About
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nation-wide. Despite the remarkable quantitative achievements,
problems of management, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the
project less effective than it could be. The training program, although on
schedule and making good progress, is out of phase with book production,
which is almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement.
Textbooks and teacher manuals would benefit from better design, organization
and illustrations, and their content is limited by the national curricula.
In response to Bank proposals, the Government has started a major review of
the project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook
programs and overall future needs for production of instructional mateLials.
Credit No. 869   Polytechnic:  US$49.0 Million Credit of December 29,
1978; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project is designed to help the Government meet demand for en-
gineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new system
(polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by establishing
a Technician Education Development Center and six polytechnics in Java and
Sumatera, and improving the quality of accountancy training by establishing
four accountancy development centers in existing universities.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Initially, all three subprojects - under the Ministry of Education
(MOE), Ministry of Manpower (MOM), and National Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - suffered an eight month delay due to late signing of
the Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agreements with the UN Agencies providing technical
assistance, as well as contracts with the consultant architects. Further delays
have occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts for the
Manpower and LAN components. Overall, the project is about 1-1/2 years
behind schedule. About 70% of civil works, 40% of furniture, and 100 of
technical assistance have been contracted. Implementation of the technical
assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT Agreements.
Overall, the Ministry of Education and LAN components are going well, but the
Ministry of Manpower has had difficulty in managing its diverse program of



- 39-                    ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20 pages
establishing 17 training centers. Delayed implementation may require post-
ponement of the Closing Date by about six months.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Implementation of the project closely follows the appraisal sched-
ule. The first and second phases of the program to train 160 Indonesian
educators in ways to improve teacher training and develop new curricula have
been carried out successfully. Curriculum development work is making good
progress, production of learning material is under way, and the research
designs for studies included in the project have been completed. Civil works
are on schedule, but equipment procurement is delayed by about nine months.
There are no specific implementation problems at this stage.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven Provinces. General progress in
project implementation is satisfactory. Renovation of two existing provin-
cial centers was completed on schedule, construction contracts for four new
centers are being awarded, and furniture and equipment is being tendered.
The technical assistance component is about nine months behind schedule due
to late signing of contracts and the November 1978 devaluation; however, the
training aspects of the project are on schedule. Recruitment of foreign
experts and domestic consultants is accelerating satisfactorily; initial
staff training, learning materials development, and evaluation activities are
being carried out. It will be another two years before the project can be
expected to make a significant impact on field activities.
ENERGY
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, implementation
is now progressing smoothly. Both 100 MW generating units have been syn-
chronized with the grid and are being loaded slowly.



-40 -                    ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975; Effective
Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Construction of the third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The scheduled commissioning date of February 1980
is about seven months behind the appraisal target, but no further delays are
expected and there is a good possibility that some of the delays may be
made up. The loan disbursement is proceeding as scheduled in the appraisal
report.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976; Effective
Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All equipment required for the project is scheduled to be procured
in three lots. Nearly 75% of the equipment which was covered by Lot 1
(valued at $13.6 million) has been received; orders for equipment covered by
Lot 2, (amounting to $32.4 million) are now being placed. The project
suffered an initial setback of about one year in procurement action but is
now progressing satisfactorily. It is expected that loan disbursements will
be completed prior to the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 200 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang, is progressing satisfactorily. Orders for
major electrical and mechanical equipment were placed during the period
December 1977-February 1978. So far progress is on or slightly ahead of
schedule. Currently, estimated commissioning dates for the units are about
four to six months ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1513 Seventh Power: US$109.0 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Tenders for major electrical and mechanical equipment required for
the 200 MW unit, including turbine generator, steam generator, cycle equip-
ment, electrical equipment and power transformer, were opened on August 21,
1978. Bids have been evaluated and the Bank indicated no objection to the
recommendations for award of contracts on February 6, 1979.



- 41-                    ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1979.
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the project
operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to about 92% in
1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems. Certain auxiliary
facilities, now being installed, are expected to be completed by mid-1979.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion: US$70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned November 26, 1977, about
four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly 470,000
tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first year
of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded by
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 313 ha has been acquired and acquisition of
another 31 ha is under negotiation. 119 ha of developed land have been sold
to 99 firms. Employment in these firms at full capacity will be around
19,000 and an estimated 1,400 persons are employed on the average in both
factory construction and land development. Overall, operations are profit-
able. The return on capital investment, which is now projected to be 22%, is
significantly higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to
developed land values rising faster than the cost of raw land and development.
The project's development has been slower than forecast at appraisal, and the
Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980.



- 42 -                   ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20 pages
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6. 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976) BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached understanding with BAPINDO and the
Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy BAPINDO's
weaknesses and achieve further improvements. A recent Bank mission found
that BAPINDO has effectively implemented the Program and achieved satisfac-
tory progress.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2. 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974; Closing Date: June 30. 1979.
This Credit is fully committed.
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21. 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
US$10.0 Million Loan of May 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan became effective on December 22, 1978, and consultants
are in place.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300  Population:  US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31. 1979.
The Indonesian national family planning program appears to have
slackened somewhat. As of October 31, 1978, 30.0% of eligible couples in
Java and Bali were estimated to be currently using contraceptives; the
comparable figure for the 10 provinces of the Other Islands covered by
the program is 8.2%. These figures as of March 30, 1978, were 30.1% and
9.6%, respectively. However, during the period covered there have been
some problems with data collection, which may be part of the reason for



- 43                    ANNEX II
Page 16 nf 20 pages
the decline. The report of the consultant engaged to determine the needs for
in-house computer facilities for the National Family Planning Coordination
Board (NFPCB) is now being evaluated. Of the construction component, the
remaining two paramedical training schools are scheduled to be completed by
August 1979. No completion date has yet been estimated for one provincial
office building, which was destroyed by fire in September when it was half
completed. Other project activities which remain to be completed, including
the fellowship training program and several research studies, will also be
completed by August 1979.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Considerable progress has been made on the civil works and procure-
ment aspects of the project. Of the 21 facilities, contracts have been
awarded for 20, and design drawings for the remaining building approved. The
provincial offices and training centers are scheduled to be completed by
September 1979, and the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTC) by
May 1980. Development of the national population education program and the
national family planning training program is proceeding well.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project start.
Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February 1979. The
Food Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and the Center for
Research and Development in Nutrition about 63%. While monitoring and
evaluation units for each component have been operational for six months, the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is satisfactory and the bulk of the
funds have been committed.



- 44 -                  ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra
and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives,
has accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained special-
ized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are com-
pleted. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due to
some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be used
for longer distances for exports. Costs have also been increased because of
delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear customs on inter-
island voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved. These matters are
being taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Virtually all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays of up to
one year. Construction of 1,200 km of roads has been started. Some problems
in executing the road works have been revealed on contracts started in 1976
and delays were encountered in awarding some contracts in 1977, causing a
slower rate of progress than scheduled. The project is about 25% complete.
The delays, combined with slow progress, indicate that the project will
probably be completed about 15-18 months after the Closing Date.



- 45 -                  ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20 pages
Marine Transport
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants,
just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been
rehabilitated.  The Credit has been entirely committed and is expected to be
fully disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976: Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants has caused a
slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and disburse-
ments. The acute financial problems of the State Shipping Company (PELNI)
have been tackled by the Government and new management is instituting a
recovery plan. The project entity (PANN) has committed, and the Bank has
approved, $22.3 million of subprojects; the Bank has disbursed and made
qualified agreement to reimburse, funds totalling $6.0 million as of
December 31, 1978. The recent change in exchange rate may adversely affect
this project in the future and slow disbursements further. This matter is
under study and being reviewed with the Government.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works
has delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made
and these works are scheduled for completion in July 1979. The first construc-
tion contract for Basin III back up facilities has been awarded and work is
underway. The regional berths component has been delayed by slow withdrawal
of the Army, which was using the site for storage. However, 90% of the land
has now been released, the old buildings are being demolished, and a contract
for the new works has recently been awarded. These delays will probably
postpone overall completion of the project to mid-1981; it is too early to
estimate the full effect of delays on project cost. The Government intends
to establish statutory agencies (PERUMS) during 1979 for ports and dredging
functions which are currently administered by government departments.
Railways
Loan No. 1005   Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Project execution is behind schedule due to initial slow procure-
ment and execution of works. Procurement is now well under way and all
contracts have been placed or are about to be placed. Freight and passenger



- 46-                     ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20 pages
traffic declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However, some
improvements have been made since the first half of 1977 following the
arrival of new locomotives and rolling stock, and operations improved
with the aid of consultants. The financial performance of the railway
continues to deteriorate due mainly to increasing costs, including a large
wage raise in early 1977, to low traffic levels, and to inadequate tariffs
for major freight commodities. The Government is completing the reorganiza-
tion of the railway as a Government Department. It has undertaken to review
the role of the railway and determine which traffic should be carried at a
profit and which should be subsidized.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in mid-
1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is scheduled
for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project appraisal.
Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8% in 1977 to 286,000
visitors and by a further 11.5% in the first eight months of 1978. Air
access is improving with the introduction of new international flights from
Singapore. At present, three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are under
consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made, changes
in the project description (recently approved by the Executive Directors)
which would allow use of savings in credit funds for hotel construction may
encourage hotel investment. It is unlikely that a first hotel at Nusa Dua
could be completed in 1980 to coincide with completion of the infrastructure.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 75% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots were resolved last year.
About 2,000 settlers have moved on the site and the remaining plots are
currently being allocated.



- 47                     ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development: US$52.5 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within appraisal estimates. Although land acquisition is causing
some delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is
being made in developing Government capabilities to undertake a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
Loan No. 1653 Third Urban Development: US$54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Not set Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The national kampung improvement program has been expanded in this
project to include Ujung Pandang, Semarang and Surakarta, as well as follow-
up components in Surabaya and Jakarta. The latter includes a new solid
wastes component, and will stress drainage and maintenance.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. This delay, together with higher rates of
inflation than anticipated, is expected to increase project costs about 30%
above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents have been completed, and contracts for all equipment and for major
civil works have been signed. The project has reached the construction
phase. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water enter-
prises is proceeding satisfactorily. In September 1978, the Government
issued an interministerial decree defining relationships between the various
1Ministries and the Water Enterprises, which is expected to expedite current
and future projects in the sector.



- 48 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
EIGHTH POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:   Two years
(b)  Project prepared by:                   Montreal Engineering Company
(MONENCO) of Canada
(c)  First presented to the Bank:                August 1977
(d)  Departure of Preappraisal Mission:   September 1978
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:         December 1978
(f)  Completion of negotiations:            April 20, 1979
(g)  Planned effectiveness:                  September 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) To assist PLN in examining energy sector issues (para. 32); and
(b) To review with the Government measures designed to simplify
procedures for procurement and payments of contracts to expedite
implementation of the proposed project (para. 72).
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government and PLN will:
(a)  complete the EHV project required to utilize power from
Suralaya on time (para. 47);
(b)  provide financing to complete the project in accordance with
the implementation program (para. 61); and
(c)  implement the increase in the level of PLN's tariffs
before March 31, 1980 (para. 66);



- 49 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2
PLN will:
(a) introduce by March 31, 1980 a new tariff structure reflecting
as closely as possible the long-run marginal cost of supply
(para. 32); and
(b) keep the Bank informed of the steps taken to improve operational
efficiency of PLN's regional units (Wilayahs)(para. 67).






118                                                                         1 0                              I8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  140 ~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 12453 R I
_8oede Aoeh            w          8        THAILAND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o IeaNi   197s
i<ACT  a   W  sru ePHLIPPINES   -~                                  PUBLIC GENERATING FACILITIES BY AREAS
'Sovth   Chlro SeT                              BRUNE7 . . . . . /                                                                                                           MARCH 31,1078
, r 1 , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~>                                                                                                                   ,1 L-  11                                                                                     VZAKtII              W10088080- -Ldh4818d8188i
k ) t"v ;} _f m f 1~~~~~~~~<                                                                                                                                                                                        171.1              Ii           *D   VOMLAVITAK 1180880818
r~      Wjj40-AI N(2V 0.8-11-18
-          '.                                                                                                        ,,t    )4                                                                         /                                   V3 448            II7 WJ b24
I   ~~~NGAPOR9E                                                                                                                            M7~7
9 T8,ngPInong                                                                                                                                           'HAIMAEfA                                       i C           0  C e     a  n
Lj  ,   \h ->      III                                       P8nt;s ix         /           (                                                                                                                                          * I  N  A N  * To  |    i J  /  00.K.
VItw!   , <    9   t    V  r  _   ~          4 > 'i                        $                          ~                         9 t          t>        I V
8AGK                                                                          8k0408         '8    j      >                                         08 O                                                                               8o7  Oqo2 Sh \t\ i4
SUMATRA                                                                                     SULAWES!                                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l`UA~SIA
= iS                                                                                                                                                                          1 t ~ ] [; iC- p} 4 it/ 5LzAf#,iWA tr C ___ G0: ldiElS
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N.bGp -                                                                                'I'FIAI    -AYA
S. ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       00418 A
/               Ja~~~~0v      a                         a U        II Po8d08,,__4-
JAKARTA                                                         n                                                         a n O   cfa n-.' S   af
lfxr ~ ~     ~     ~      0 IL'Nr15Ir ~                                                                                                         r          ls        "     -* -_.T                       le 2050    O             X 0        r      d
Ci18l88A V A444<8V~  
/nd,ao,  Ore  ~~~~                           08llp~~$A0                                      '4'0u08          Aonuo               
SUMO<j)  Kup48~~~~~~~~~                                     0    1080   2~    9    490  590  88 790  800
top  'fa,                                                                                                                        Ila-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0744080804748180008 






IORD 12435 R2
1U6~~~~~~~~~  1060                                                                                 Ii?                                     O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECEM BER  1971
1,p hos b.gomet by to Vsqd Bso's steff          00U4 f.'OPo'                                             INDONEStA
SUIMA TRA                                                                       it  sohW Tepn to  d.o ooetjOs Usd god :5S
#* rW, jsd*aea5 et s*0 legal 4atu$a Of say toi.taqor0- wto   a,JAVA  P W RSYSTEM
to* 0foo         ,                                                                  MAJOR POWER PLANTS AND MAIN TRANSMIPION LINES
EXISTING AND P POSE
POWER   SUBSTATIONS   TRANSMISSi0N LINES
/  <    \    \> Jatiluour   XTENSIDR                               INDIAN      OCEAN                                           WIHV      OR OT8    EDU              R
ran                                                                                                                          80IMPLETION By 19WISI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ItE
at'uhu ngWLAYHaOlDITRILOMHEATEATRR
~~~~~~~~~~~s~ ig                          Padrtn                                                                                                              -EAG    - - - - -  PLN'S WILAYAH4BOI:NDARIES
W  WETJAVA                uKmjn                                ETRAL JAV                                                         Babat.- 
BoegoZ-i W r                1120                                             1 40er
Btabk    S        B1 0                                            URAt AYA
en 6 / T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ranten9 .e
v aKSwt                                                                                                                                                                           EASTJAVA  /  robolinggo
Cengkarengt                                                     oeo                                                                                               xi           a ^   aang           
Muara K\rn:o   Wili9 Orngkae  
Ta\ ean           Pulogbdn           ka-si            JAvA SEA                   /.' ._ 
\\ Cawar // \ & X~~~~~~~~~~~emak                                                   INDIAN,  OCEAIYN,, 
| < 7// \tE.r Suma-ng 1l i ' " L > 1 -ast emaran
i binong                     J      a                                                                               s o        1W-        6
S                            IJ~~~~~~~~~~ngaran                                                                        lrMrFs14 
\                                   J~~~~~~~~~~elo



