Document of
The World Bank
FOIR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repoirt No. 488 9-HA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOUJRTH POWER PROJECT
October 25 ,   84
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the it -qrnnLice of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Baul a- bhoriil fi(. l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit                      Gourde (G)
G 1.00 = 100 centimes          =   US$0.20
Million US dollars (MUS$)      =   US$1,000,000.00
French Franc                   =   FF
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 kilovolt (kV)                =   1,000 volts (V)
1 kilowatt (kW)                -   1,000 watts (W)
1 megawatt (MW)                =   1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)          =   1,000 watt-hours (Wh)
1 gigawatt-hour (GWh)          =   1,000 megawatt-hours (MWh)
I megavolt-ampere (MVA)        =   1,000 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)
1 kilometer (km)               =   0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)           0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 barrel (bbl)                 =   42 US gallons = 159 liters
1 meter (m)                    =   3.281 feet (ft.)
1 cubic meter (m3)             =   35.32 cubic feet (ft3)
1 kg                           -   2.206 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EdH       =       Electricite d'Haiti
TELECO    =       Telecommunications d'Haiti
ODVA      =       L'Organisme de Developpement
de la Vallee d'Artibonite
CIDA      =       Canadian International Development Agency - Canada
CCCE              Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique - France
FAC       =       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation - France
IDB       =       Inter-American Development Bank
KfW       =       Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
(Federal Republic of Germany)
UNDP      =       United Nations Development Programs
HQI               Hydro Quebec International - Canada
PW                Price Waterhouse - Canada
SOFRELEC  =       Societe Francaise d'Etude et de Realisation
d'Equipements Electriques - France
EdH FISCAL YEAR (FY)
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  PROJECT SUMMARY .....................       ....................  1
2.  THE POWER SECTOR  ............* *.... ,  ,     ,    .**** ****    3
Energy Resources  3.... ...*.*..*.... ...    ................     3
Power Sector and its Organization........................         3
Electricite d'Haiti ......                                        4
EdH's Financial Situation .............................,.    5
Power Sector Strategy and Development ......                      6
Sector Constraints  .. ***** *** *0eS ** .0 ...      ...  **..    7
IDA Strategy and Participation in the Power Sector ....**    7
3.  THE PROJECT *.....................                                9
Project Origin and Preparation           ..........................    9
Project Objectives and Description ......................    9
Project Execution       .............................. *         12
Project Cost and Financing ..                                    13.
Procurement and Disbursement                                     14
Economic Evaluation                                              15
Project Risks  .............................. ..   15
4.  PROJECT IMPLEM4ENTATION DETAILS .......                          16
Cost Estimates  ...........16
Implementation Schedule  ..... *.                                16
Procurement Details               .....                          17
Disbursement Schedule               .....                        18
Environmental Aspects                                  ..... -   18
Project File                          .                          18
5.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION         *.                 18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Haiti during September-October 1983. The mission comprised Messrs. L. R.
Luzuriaga (Power Engineer), C. Moreno-Pineda and J. Davis (Financial
Analysts).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
ANNEXES
Annex 1: The Beneficiary             ........... ...............   20
Attachment 1:  Organization Chart *v**.e ..................  24
Attachment 2:  Performance Indicators .....................  25
Annex 2: The Power Market ..........................  26
Attachment 1:  Distribution of Electricity Consumption ....  31
Attachment 2:  ixisting and Proposed Generating Facilities   32
Attachment 3:  Capacity Balance for Port-au-Prince               33
Attachment 4:  Actual and Forecast Generation                    34
Attachment 5:  Actual and Forecast Sales .................  35
Annex Z: Financial Analysis        ... . *.                               36
Attachment 1:  Actual and Forecast Income Statements             41
Attachment 2:  Estimated and Forecast Funds Statements ....  42
Attachment 3:  Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets  ,.,..   43
Attachment 4:  Investment Program for Period 1984-88 ......  44
Attachment 5:  Actual and Forecast Rate Base                     45
Attachment 6:  Statement of Changes in Work in Progress....  46
Attachment 7:  Terms of Existing and Future Loans                47
Attachment 8:  Electricity Tariffs as of October 1983            48
Attachment 9:  Fuel Cost Forecast                                49
Annex 4: Internal Rate of Return ..................................  50
Annex 5: Project Cost Estimates                         ......            51
Annex 6: Project Implementation Schedule ........52
Annex 7: Credit Disbursement Schedule                                     53
Annex 8: Contents of Project File ........................  54
MAP No.  IBED 17956



H ITI
EL1;CTRICITE D'SLAITI - FdAl
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
l. PROJECT SUMARY
H       vv             Rep ib lic of Haiti
pitlv t Ll:lazrv:      Electricite d'Iiaiti. (EdH) and the Ministry of Finance
SDIt 21.8 million from IDA, equivalent to US$22.1
millIon
Standard
o-b.n4ing iTerms:     T-e amount of SDR 21.3 million from proceeds of the
e:redit would be on-lent by the Government to EdH for a
period of 20 years, including four years grace, at an
Interest rate of 9.89% per annum.  Interest during
eon4tcructioii would be capitilized.  EdH would assume
the foreign exchange risk.
PasralttS inasctng:   Cais6e Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE),
FF 72.0 million, to be lent to the Government of 'haiti
for on-lending to EdH.
t lŽio.eripLion:  'the project would help to further develop the energy
sector of Haiti through (i) the expansion of the
existing Carrefour diesel power station at Port-au-
1'rince with two diesel-electric units (2 x 7.8 MW);
(ii) the implementation of a program to improve the
generation capacity of three existing power plants;
(iii) the completion of the rehabilitation of the
distribution network at Port-au-Prince; (iv) the
preparation ot detailed engineering design for a hydro-
electric project on the Artibonite river basin; (v) the
provision of consulting services for management and
opcraittan of EdR, as well as project implementation and
operatton; (vi) the provision of a training program
including fellowships; and (vii) the provision of
consulting services for the municipal finance study of
tlw Plort-au-Prince metropolitan area.
No LuiLusual risks are associated with the project.  In
order to provide required expertise, internationally
rveruited consultants would assist EdH in project
I nplEmrentation.



Estimated Cost: a!                                     Local    Foreign    Total
---- US$ million    -
Carrefour diesel plant           0.9        7.5       8.4
Generation improvement           0.1        7.8       7.9
Distribution network             0.8        4.5       5.3
Consulting services and
training                       0.7       4.0        4.7
Total base cost                  2.5       23.8      26.3
Physical contingency             0.2        2.4       2.6
Price contingency                0.6        4.3       4.9
Total EdH's project cost         3.3       30.5      33.8
M?unicipal finances study        0.1        0.4       0.5
Interest during construction   3.7            -       3.7
Total financing required         7.1       30.9      38.0
-    _                 _
a/  Excludes taxes and duties from which this project
is exempt.
Financing Plan:                                        Local    Foreign    Total
…-----US$ million 
IDA credit                       0.1      22.0       22.1
CCCE credit (equiv.)               -        8.9       8.9
Eda                              3.3          -       3.3
Government (IDC)                 3.7          -       3.7
Total financing              7.1      30.9       38.0
Estimated              IDA FY               1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
…-           US$ million       -
IDA credit
Annual               1.3    11.7      5.6      2.6     0.9
Cumulative           1.3    13.0    18.6    21.2    22.1
Rate of Return:        11.0 percent based on present and projected tariffs.
Map:                   IBRD 17956



- 3 -
2. THE POWER SECTOR
Energy Resources
2.01      Haiti's indigenous energy resources are limited.  The remaining
undeveloped hydro-potential amounts to about 90 KW only (of which 90% are
concentrated in two sites in the Artibonite River) and petroleum deposits at
this moment are not known to exist. Small sub-economic lignite deposits have
been identified but it is doubtful whether they can be used for power
generatton. Imported fuel, therefore, is presently used for 50% of total
electricity generation of 369 GWh (1983), and thermal power plants will have
to remain the mainstay of the Haitian power sector*
2.02      Imported refined petroleum products are the main Gource of
commercial energy. Charcoal is extensively used for domestic and small
industrial purposes. A Bank energy assessment mission estimated that in 1982
wood accounted for 76 percent of Haiti's gross energy use, bagasse for 5
percent, petroleum for 15 percent and hydropower for 4 percent. Due to the
high use of wood, much of the country has been denuded of trees; erosion is
progressing rapidly and considerable areas of once fertile land have been
stripped of soil. Moreover, because of erosion-induced siltation, the useful
volume of the reservoir of the Peligre hydropower scheme, the largest in the
country, is declining rapidly and reducing the power capacity by 400 kW per
year during the dry season. At the present rate of siltation, the reservoir
may be completely filled by year 2016, eliminating present river regulation
done for purposes of power generation, irrigation and flood control.
Impounding siltation in the incoming affluents to the reservoir might
mitigate the problem; the construction of the Guayamouc dam and hydroelectric
project, now being considered by EdH for development, is one of the proposed
partial solutions4 for containing about 40% of the sediments. Dredging of the
Peligre reservoir is not an economical proposition.
2.03      Various public institutions in Haiti are at present engaged in
evaluating solar energy technologies, windpower anu methanol production frcsi
sweet sorghum. Although some of these technologies may not be developed
economically at the present time, they could constitute an important source
of energy in the future.
Power Sector and its Organization
2.04      Electrification is limited in Haiti, reflecting the low economic
level of the country and the poverty of its population. In 1983, only 9
percent of the population had access to electricity; in Port-au-Prince 43
percent of the people had electricity and in the provinces and rural sector
only 3 percent. Power generation is highest in Port-au-Prince with about 410
kWh per capita annually, which for the whole population averages only about
70 kWh. Industries which are mainly in and around Port-au-Prince consume
about 45 percent of sales, commerce 5 percent, public institutions 12
percent, and residential consumption is about 38 percent. Since 1972,
electricity consumption in Port-au-Prince grew at an average annual rate of



- 4 -
13 percent and is projected to grow at an average annual rate of 9 percent
through 1988, while in the rural areas it is expected to grow at a rate ol
10.5 percent. Annex 2 presents detailed information on the power market in
Haiti.
2.05      Electricite d'Haiti (EdH), an autonomous Government agency created
in 1971, is the sole entity responsible for power supply in Haiti. Power
sector policies are set by the Preaident of its Board, the President of the
Republic, who delegates his authority to the Minister of Public Works,
Communications and Transport. There is no separate regulatory body for the
sector, and tariffs are approved by Edl's Board.
2.06      EdH's installed hydroelectric capacity is 54.8 MW and thermal
capacity amounts to 91.8 MW. Captive plant capaciy is 40,000 kW, all thermal
type.
Electricite d'Haiti
2.07      Annex 1 presents complete details on EdH.  EdH employs about 1,250
people of which 370 are stationed at locations outside Port-au-Prince. Only
8% of EdH's staff have a university degree. Staff quality is not fully
satisfactory and there is a shortage of managerial, technical, and
administrative skills. Under the first IDA Power Project, a training unit
was created within EdH, initially responsible for only the coordination of
training in-house and abroad. More recently, the training unit expanded into
a center with the assistance provided under the Second and Third Power
Projects, as well as by the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and the
Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW). With five full time instructors, the
Center provides courses and seminars on varied subjects such as linemen
techniques, metering, welding, diesel operation and nechanics, hydro-plant
operation, fitting, first aid, accounting, administrative and control
techniques, secretarial techniques, alphabetization, etc. In the last four
years 300 employees received training at the center. In addition to the
in-house training, the center sent 35 professionals to seminars and courses
abroad. Through the First and Second Power Projects, IDA helped to provide
training to approximately 50 percent of EdH professionals through fellowships
abroad, and approximately 50 percent of EdH personnel through in-house
training. Results were satisfactory in the financial and administration
areas where personnel were trained in modern organizational methods and data
handling equipment. In the technical area, improvements have been achieved
in systems planning and technical studies, but a great deal remains to be
done in engineering and design, construction supervision and operations and
maintenance. Under the Third Power Project, an additional 10% of the
engineers and technicians would receive training,
2.08      In general, EdH has performed reasonably well in the execution of
previously IDA-financed projects. In order to assure that the institution
continues having an adequate managemert, independence from undue government
interference, and that all projects, including the proposed Fourth Power
Project, would be executed in an efficient manner, during negotiations the
Government and EdH accepted that the specific covenants from credit 1281 HA,



- 5 -
related with the execution of the project, with financial performance and
with the management and operation of EdH, be repeated in the legal documents
for the proposed credit.
2.09      In order to monitor the future operations of EdH, new performance
and financial indicators and loss reduction targets have been negotiated and
included in the legal documents. At present there is a loss of water at
EdH's Peligre dam because of a lack of coordination between EdH and
L'Organisme de Developpement de la Vallee d'Artibonite (ODVA), an irrigation
development organization. As a condition of effectiveness, EdH would sign an
agreement with ODVA to regulate the use of the Artibonite River for
irrigation, flood control, and power generation in a manner satisfactory to
the Association. EdH would carry out periodic inspection of the Peligre dam
and related structures in accordance with sound engineering practices in
order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of
such structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance and methods of
operation.
EdH's Financial Situation
2.10      Prior to 1975, EdH's financial performance had been very weak,
mostly because of inadequate tariff levels, high energy losses, non-payment
of public electricity consumption and excessive reliance on short-term debt
financing. However, starting in 1976, and particularly since 1978, EdH
finances improved gradually. Its average revenue increased by about 40
percent between 1980 and 1982. In this period, the rates of return on
revalued assets were around 5.7 percent, lower than the targeted 8 percent,
but adequate to meet EdH's cash requirements. Due to a severe drought that
affected the generation of hydropower, a constant increase in electricity
losses and lower demand because of the economic recession, earnings in 1983
dropped severely, resulting in a rate of return of zero percent. The new
financial forecast includes provisions to meet financial shortfalls in case
of drought.
2.11      EdH's financial situation is expected to be satisfactory through
FY88. The forecast rate of return on the average current net value of fixed
assets in operation would not be less than 5 percent in FY85 and FY86, 7
percent in FY87 and 8 percent in FY88. During the period, EdH would be able
to meet its financial obligations and generate internally approximately 27
percent of the financing of its construction program and working capital
needs.  However, in order to maintain a sound financial performance during
the execution of the project, the Government and EdH agreed during
negotiations not to undertake any investments in the power sector whose total
cost would exceed the equivalent of one percent of the current net value of
EdH's fixed assets in operation, with the exception of those reviewed by the
Association during appraisal. Also, they agreed on a commitment limiting the
aggregate amount of unbudgeted village and rural electrification investments
in any year to 0.2 percent of such net value. At the same time, EdH agreed
(a) not to incur long-term debt without the Association's previous consent
unless internal cash generation covers maximum future debt service by 1.5
times; (b) not increase short-term debt exceeding one sixth of its annual
cash operating, maintenance and administration expenses; and (c) maintain



- 6 -
its liquid assets in an intere6t-bearing account or in interest-bearing
investments.  The ratio between the internal cash generation and debt service
shall be calculated using a reasonable forecast for the internal cash
generation instead of historical data.
2.12      EdH's tariff structure, designed with the assistance of consultants
under previous projects, is based on the principle of marginal costing. The
tariff includes a monthly fuel surcharge, adjusted quarterly and incorporated
into the basic tariff at the end of each fiscal year. The average tariff for
FY83 was US cents 12.8 per kWh, and it has been projected to grow at 10
percent per yea, during the period 1984-88, or the same rate assumed for
local inflation and in line with what EdH achieved in recent years.  The
projected annual average tariffs are about equal to the long-run marginal
cost. At the begirnning of FY84, after incorporation of the fuel surcharge
into the basic tariff, it reached US cents 14.0 per kWh, which ie close to
the average tariff assumed in the financial forecast for FY84 (US cents 14.3
per kWh).
2.13      The collection of current electricity bills from government
agencies and public institutions has always been a problem for EdH. As of
September 1984, the Government's arrears amounted to US$ 6.10 million,
equivalent to 15 months of billing.  As a condition to begin negotiations of
the proposed project, the Ministry of Finance signed an agreement with EdH,
acceptable to the Association, under which (a) the arrears will be settled
through lump sum payments of US$2.90 million in FY85, US$2.65 million in
FY86 and the balance of approximately US$0.55 million in FY87; and (b) the
Government will start to pay on time current electricity bills, from the
beginning of FY85. The Government would maintain the financial agreement
until it is fully implemented. Finally, the Government would not permit EdH
to use its financial resources for any purpose other than to pay the costs of
its operations and investments and to service its debts.
2.14      A detailed financial analysis for EdH's operations is presented in
Annex 3.
Power Sector Strategy and Development
2.15      As part of the policy of diversifying economic activities, the
'encouragement of private sector investment in assembly industries and tourism
has become a cornerstone of Haiti's development strategy.  In this context,
the "Long-Term Pre-Investment Study of the Power Sector", the master plan in
the development of the sector, emphasizes the expansion of electric power
generation in major urban areas, especially in Port-au-Prince. This study
was financed in 1978 by UNDP and has been endorsed by Government authorities
and the main external agencies supporting the power sector (IDA, K'W, IDB,
CIDA, UNDP, CCCE).  The latest update of the study, prepared by HLdro Quebec
International in September 1983, includes an expansion program which extends
into the early years of the coming decade. In view of the limited hydro-
potential left for development in Haiti, it prescribes an intermittent
program of increasing hydroelectric and thermal capacity, in steps
commensurate with demand projections of Port-au-Prince and the main urban



-7-
centers in the provinces. As far as rural electrification is concerned, EdH
bases ita expansion program on small electric generating plants. EdlH and
German consultants financed by KfW are carrying out feasibility studies of
hydro-plants, and small diesel generating groups are being installed at
selected sites. A Rural Electrification Master Plan will be prepared in
1985-86 by consultants to be financed by of a grant from CIDA.
2.1*6     EdH's proposed investment program for the period of 1984-88 totals
US$264.7 million. Of this amotunt, about 11 percent would be invested in
rural electrification. By the end of the period, the power generating
capacity for Port-au-Prince would increase by 60 MW from its present level of
120.4 MW and the provinices by 4 MW from a level of 26.2 MW.
Sector Constraints
2.17      The main constraint to the development of the Haitian power sector
is the high investment in hydroelectric systems due to the country's
topography, hydrology, and the lack of infrastructure. Variations in the
regime of the rivers require the construction of reservoirs to regulate the.
flow of water. However, because of the nature of the terrain, the
construction of large reservoirs is very costly. The absence of adequate
roads contributes to the high cost of civil works. The limited number of
qualified staff also affects EdH's capacity to develop and manage the
system. This is currently being corrected through improvements in.
organization and training. Nevertheless, the cost of power development and
consumer tariffs for electric service will remain relatively high in Haiti,
and the Government will continue to require a substantial amount of foreign
assistance to finance it, in order to accelerate the growth of industrial
activities.
IDA Strategy and Participation in the Power Sector
2.18      Since 1976, the Association has sought to assist Haiti in the
development of its electric power sector through: (a) the formulation and
implementation of a least cost national power development plan that conforms
to the development objectives of the country; and (b) the institutional and
financial improvement of EdH. To achieve these objectives, IDA provided
three credits amounting to US$58.5 millioa and mobilized an additional amount
of US$24.0 million in co-financing and parallel financing. The development
of Haiti's power sector has cuntributed to the creation of a manufacturing
sector that has become the most consistently dynamic economic activity in
Haiti and is helping to absorb part of the unemployed labor force migrating
from the countryside to the capital city.  While EdH has become one of the
most efficient public enterprises in Haiti, IDA will have to provide
technical, managerial and financial assistance, over a long period of time,
to allow EdH to meet the institutional demands and large investment
requirements of a rapidly growing sector.
2.19      The First Power Project (Credit 645-HA of Jtuly 1976 for US$16.0
million) included the initial stage (1976-78) of a two-stage power
development program then covering the period 1976-83. The decision to carry
oW'4 this program in two stages arose from constraints in the availability of
both IDA and local counterpart funds and from the desire to strengthen EdH



-8-
institutionally before it undertook a larger investment project. Thus, EdH
was reorganized, its autonomy strengthened, and its technical. competence
supported by technical assistance for engineering, project supervision and
staff training. The Project also addressed the urgent need to install 21 'AW
of diesel generating capacity in Port-au-Prince at a new power station
(Varreux) near the industrial and commercial center of the city, together
with transmission facilities, particularly to serve industry. This part of
the project was completed about 20 months behind schedule. The delay arose
because of a transport accident affecting the two small generators and also
because of a major breakdown of the two larger units, afterwards repaired by
the supplier. Transmission facilities were completed on schedule. A new
tariff structure, coupled with improvements in operating efficiency, resulted
in a substantial improvement of EdH's financial position. The Project
Performance Audit Report (Report No. 3265) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 30, 19BQ.
2.20      The Second Power Project (Credit 895-HA for US$16.5 million and the
European Economic Communit:y special action credit 4-HA for US$6.0 million,
both of May 1979) covered the second stage of the power development program
for the 1979-83 period.  The project, which received parallel CIDA financing
amounting to Can$17 million, added 23 MW capacity to the Varreux diesel
station, transmission lines and substations, renovation of Port-au-Prince
distribution system, some diesel units and related distribution networks in
tb.e provinces and consulting services and training of EdH's staff. The
implementation of the project suffered a setback in 1979 due to controversies
within EdH concerning the IDA-financed contract for the Varreux diesel
station, resulting in the dismissal by the Government of the General Manager,
the Technical Director and the consultants. By allowing overlapping
consultant services, the Association endeavored to minimize the effect of the
incident which, nevertheless, resulted in a delay of 18 months in the
renovation of th%t Port-au-Prince transmission network. The CIDA financed and
administered transmission component also suffered delays, as a result of lags
in the preparation of project designs, bid evaluation and contract award.
The Second Power project is now scheduled to be completed in December 1984.
2.21      The Third Power Project (Credit 1281-HA for SDR 23.1 million, of
August 1982, and CCCE parallel financing of FF 30 million, November 1983)
which cov(rs the investment needs of the 1984-85 period of the developmer,t
program., is financing a new 23 MW diesel electric power station at Carrefour
in Port-au-Prince, additional renovation of the Port-au-Prince distribution
network, construction of a new head office for EdH, repair of the civil works
at the Peligre hydroelectric power plant, a feasibility study for the
Guayamouc hydroelectric project, consulting services and training of EdH
staff. The project is scheduled to be completed in June 1986.
Municipal Finance
2.22      Municipal government in Port-au-Prince is provided by the four
municipalities that make up the "Communaute Urbaine de Port-au-Prince", with
a population of 900,000. The role of these municipalities is restricted at
present to the administration of a few urban services, such as the collection
and disposal of garbage. Staff are insufficient in number and inadequately
trained. Their financial position is precarious; more than half of their



- 9 -
revenues come from earmarked taxes collected by the Ministry of Finance, such
as the property tax and the licence tax on enterprises. The remainder
consists essentially of grants from the central Government. In real terms,
revenues from local taxes have been falling in recent years.  The results are
insufficient funds to provide for adeqnldte urban services and maintenance of
infrastructure, let alone capital investment. There are, however, several
important capital investments in Port-au-Prince which are being financed or
prepared by international and bilateral agencies: drainage (IDB), urban
development (KfW and IDA), transportation (France) and water supply (IDA and
France). In order to operate and maintain adequately these investments and
improve the delive.-ry of basic services, it has become increasingly necessary
to strengthen urgently overall municipal management and finance. An
opportunity to improve municipal finances in Port-au-Prince has arisen during
the preparation of proposed project due to a proposal under consideration by
Government to link municipal tax collection with electricity tariffs. This
proposal revealed the need for a thorough review of municipal finance and
management in order to improve local tax administration in Port-au-Prince and
to assess other alternative measures for generating municipal revenues
without linking them to electricity tariffs. Therefore, the proposed project
would include a study of municipal finances in Port-au-Prince which should
lead to reforms in the structure of local revenues in order to allow for
improvements in the provision of urban services.
3. THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Preparation
3.01      The proposed project, which is a part of EdHts expansion program,
would cover the investment cost to increase the generation capacity for
Port-au-Prince during the period 1986-87. The project was identified by
IDA's supervision missions in 1982 and 1983, was prepared by EdH's Technical
and Planning Departments, with the assistance of consultants, and was
appraised in October 1983. Annex 2 presents full details on EdH's expansion
program for the period 1984-1995.
Project Objectives and Description
3.02      The proposed project aims at expanding and improving generating
facilities in order to meet growing demand of electricity, completing the
renovation of the Port-au-Prince distribution network as a means to improve
service and decrease energy losses, and at strengthening Edl both in the
technical and financial areas by means of training programs and the
assistance given by consultants. It also includes the final design and
preparation of bidding documents for a new hydroelectric project on the
Artibonite river b^cin and a review of the municipal finances of
Port-au-Prince.



- 10 -
3.03      The Proposed project includes:
(a)  Supply and installation of two medium-speed diesel groups, rated
7.8 MW each, at the new Carrefour power plant. The groups would be
installed in the space provided at the powerhouse constructed as
part of the Third Power Project. Once completed, the plant will
have a total of five diesel groups with a total capacity of 39 MW;
(b)  Generation improvement of existing power plants, including: (i)
installation of a new cooling tower at the Varreux diesel electric
power plant; (ii) installation of auxiliary equipment to improve
performance of selected plants; (iii) purchase of a stock of spare
parts for up to four years of operation for the Varreux and
Carrefour power plants, and for major maintenance of the three
hydro turbine-generators at the Peligre hydroelectric plant;
(c) Completion of .the distribution network renovation for Port-au-
Prince, started under the Second and Third Power Projects. When
completed, about 75% of the network would have been renewed, and
technical losses and theft of electricity would be reduced from a
present 32% to less than 17% of total production in 1988;
Cd)  Consulting services to cover: (i) engineering and supervision for
parts (a) and (c) of the proposed project; (ii) general consulting
to EdH in technical, financial and administrative matters and
monitoring of the loss reduction program; (iii) technical
assistance to be directly responsible for the operation,
maintenance and on-the-job training under part (b) of the proposed
project; (iv) review of the feasibility studies for hydro-electric
projects in the Artibonite river basin, and final design and
preparation or bidding documents for the selected hydroelectric
power plant;
Ce)  Training of EdH personnel and fellowships for studies abroad; and
*f)  Consulting services to review the municipal finances of
Port-au-Prince.
3.04      The two additional diesel generating groups included in the project
would enable EdH to meet the demand growth at Port-au-Prince until 1988, by
which time new generation capacity would be needed. The system expansion
study conducted by the consultants (para. 2.15) concluded that at the present
level of electricity productior., it is more economical to use low-priced
medium speed diesel units at Carrefour instead of more efficient and
reliable, but also more expensive low speed diesels. For these reasons, and
for a desirable standardization of equipment, EdH decided to continue with
medium speed diesels at this plant.
3.05      The operation of the seven medium speed diesel groups at Varreux
(39 MW total) has not been as successful as expected, due partly to the lack
of experienced personnel to operate and maintain the plant, and to the



- 11 -
inadequate stock. of spare parts.  In addition, there have been technical
problems such as a deficiency in the cooling system oc the first four dies l
groups installed at Varreux (First Power Project) which does not permit full
loading of the generators, and some breakdowns in the last three groups
(Second Power Project) which are beixig corrected by the manufacturer.  The
generation improvement program under part (b) of this project would correct
the situation of the existing Varreux power plant and permit proper operation
of the new Carrefout: plant. Together these plants would have a total of 78
MW, equivalent to 54% of the total ins!.±led effective (rainy season)
capacity serving Port-au-Prince by 1987.
3.06      The turbine-generators at the Peligre hydroelectric plant,
responsible for 54% of EdH's generation for Port-au-Prince in 1983, are in
urgent need of an already past due major ten-year maintenance overhaul. The
proposed project would provide the foreign funds required to import the spare
parts. Since the repair of the civil works at the Peligre dam is also being
financed by IDA under the Third Power Project, after completion of the
proposed project, the Peligre plant would have been totally overhauled with
the help of funds provided by the Association.
3.07      In order to 1iprove service, lower technical losses and
eliminate theft of electricity through illegal connections, about 75 percent
of the distribution network at Port-au-Prince needs to be replaced. This
work is being partly financed by the Association under the Second and Third
Power Projects. The actual work on the renovation, however, started only in
1983, a delay of three years, due to initial difficulties with the
consultants. The proposed project iould provide the funds to expand and
complete the renovation of the network by 1987. EdH has formulated an
electricity loss reduction program which is satisfactory to IDA and has
started to implement it. The electricity production loss would be reduced to
at least 26 percent by September 30, 1985, 22 percent by September 30, 1986,
19 percent by September 30, 1987 and 17 percent by September 30, 1988 and
thereafter.  In order to regulate the common use of utility poles for the
d.stribution networks, EdH has signed agreements satisfactory to the
Association, with the telecommunication (TELECO) and television (TeleHaiti)
companies.
3.08      Preliminary studies available on occasion of appraisal of the Third
Power Project pointed out that two small dams could be developed in the
Guayamouc river (Guayamouc I and II) with a combined capacity of about 9 MW.
Based on this information, it was decided to finance as part of the Third
Power Project the survey, feasibility study and bidding documents for the
Guayamouc I project. However, the feasibility studies concluded that the two
sites could be combined in a larger power plant with a capacity of 22 MW and
85 GWh/year. Additional feasibility studies prepared with IDB and EdH funds
in 1982-83 defined better other hydroelectric power plants on the Artibonite
river basin: La Chapelle with a maximum capacity of 56.6 MW and 281 GWh and
Mirabelais with a capacity of 30 MW and 147 GWh. Since the funds provided in
the Third Power Project were used entirely in the execution of the Guayamouc
feasibility study, the proposed project would finance consultants to review
the feasibility studies for hydroelectric plants on the Artibonite river
basin and to prepare final design and bidding documents for the selected
project.



- 12 -
3.09      The project would cover the foreign cost of 1986-87 training
program of EdH. The program includes fellowships abroad and short in-house
courses and seminars. While efforts will be continued in the financial and
administrative areas, the training will emphasize the technical area,
particularly the engineering and design, construction supervision, and
operations and maintenance. The technical experts who would assist EdH to
operate the Varreux and Carrefour stations would provide also on-the-job
training to supervisors, operators, and maintenance personnel for the medium
speed diesel groups. Under the Fourth Power Project about 75 percentage of
personnel and 15 perce-atage of professional staff will be recycled or
trained. The 1986-87 program and its implementation schedule have been
discussed and agreed with EdH. The candidates for fellowships would be
selected on the basis of criteria and under terms satisfactory to the
Association. EdH would consult the Association concerning the proposed
training institutions for these candidates and make arrangements satisfactory
to the Association for the placement of such fellowship be1leficiaries. To
ensure adequate implementation of the training component, it will be closely
monitored by the Association's Central and Regional Training Units.
3.10      The review of municipal finances, to be carried out by consultants
(36 man-months), would consist of an assessment of the existing financial
position and future prospects of municipal entities in Port-au-Prince. This
would involve a review of the adequacy of the present revenue level relative
to its function, pricing policies of basic services, revenue collection
system and mechanism of transfers from the central Government. It would also
examine the future revenue needs of the municipalities, particularly those
related to operation and maintenance of capital work investment undertaken by
other public sector entities, identify additional revenue sources, and
provide concrete proposals to strengthen accounting and financial management
systems. The Government agreed to (a) submit the study to the Association
for its review and comments no later than June 30, 1986; (b) prepare a plan
of action based on the recouAmendations of such a study taking into account
comments of the Association no later than September 30, 1986; and (c) carry
out such plan of action no later than January 31, 1987.
Project Execution
3.11      EdH would be the beneficiary of 98% of the credit and would be
responsible for the implementation of the power components of the project.
The municipal finances study would be carried out by the Department of
Economy and Industry in the Ministry of Finance. Under existing credit
agreements, EdH undertakes to assure that at all times the central managerial
positions would be filled by competent and experienced persons whose
qualifications are satisfactory to the Association. As EdH still requires
technical support, services of qualified consultants would be contracted (140
man-months) to carry out detailed engineering, procurement and supervision of
the Carrefour extension and the distribution renovation. In addition, three
foreign experts would provide technical assistance (108 man-months) in the
operation and maintenance of the Varreux and Carrefour power plants and the
procurement of spare parts and maintenance equipment. A management
consultant (80 man-months) would continue to assist EdH in all financial and



- 13 -
administrative matters related to the project and to EdH's daily operations,
including the establishment of an energy data bank to monitor production,
sales, losses and fuel consumption. Other consultants would execute the
detailed engineering and bidding documents for the selected power plant in
the Artibonite river basin (200 man-months). During the execution of the
proposed project, the existing EdH Technical Coordinating Committee will
continue its function of coordinating activities on the various projects
financed by IDA, IDB, CIDA, KfW and CCCE.
Project Cost and FLnancin
3.12      The total cost of the power project, excluding interest during
"instruction, is estimated at US$33.8 million, of which US$30.5 (or 90%)
would be foreign exchange costs. The municipal finances study cost estimate
is US$0.5 million additional (85% foreign cost). With the exception of fuel,
EdH is exempt from duties and taxes. Cost estimates are based on December
1983 prices and were calculated on the basis of Edli's experience in similar
projects. Physical contingencies are 10%, and a price contingency has been
added, assuming the following inflation rates: local costs 1944 onwards: 10%;
foreign costs 1984: 3.5%; 1985: 8.0%; and 1986 onwards: 9.0%. Foreign
consulting services are estimated at US$10,rJO per man-month, and technical
assistance for power plant maintenance at US$9,200 per man-month, including
travel and other expenses (1983 prices).
3.13      The proposed IDA credit of US$22.1 million would finance the
foreign exchange cost of the following project components: (i) generation
improvement program, including spare parts, cooling and miscellaneous
auxiliary equipment for the Varreux, Carrefour and Peligre power plants; (ii)
distribution network renovation at Port-au-Prince; (iii) technical and
administrative consulting services for the execution of the project,
including technical assistance for the operation and maintenance of power
plants and for the final design of a new hydroelectric project in the
Artibonite river basin; and (iv) the total cost of the Port-au-Prince
municipal finances study. CCCE accepted to parallel finance FF 72.0 million
to import materials and services of French origin for the expansion of the
Carrefour power plant, including two diesel-electric groups and the related
step-up substation; two credits will be provided by CCCE, one for FF 48.0
million, for a period of 15 years including 5 years grace and 5% annual
interest, and another for FF 24.0 million for a period of 30 years including
10 years grace and i.nterests of 1.5% per annum during the grace period and 2%
for the rest of the period.  EdH would finance from its funds the local
component of the project (US$3.3 million).
3.14      During negotiations the Government agreed that the amount of SDR
20.8 million from proceeds of the credit would be on-lent by the Government
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to EdH for a period of 20 years, including
4 years of grace, at an interest rate of 9.89 percent per annum. It has been
assumed that the interest during construction, estimated at US$3.7 million,
would be capitalized and added to the subsidiary loan. The foreign exchange
risk would he assumed by EdH. The execution and ratification of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and EdH will be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed project.



- 14 -
3.15      Retroactive financing not exceeding US$0.8 million haB been
accepted for consulting services for the preparation of bidding doeuments for
the expansion of the Carrefour diesel plant, initiated in January 1984, and
for the technical assistance services for Varreux and Carrefour power plants,
to be initiated by January 1985.
Procurement an! Disbursement
3.16      Equipment and materials for the distribution network renovation and
consulting services for (a) the design of a new hydroelectric project in the
Artibonite river basin, (b> technical assistance services for power plant
operation and maintenance, and (c) the Port-au-Prince municipal finances
study, will be procured in accordance with the respective Bank Group
Guidelines of Procurement or for the Hiring of Consultants. EdH recently
awarded a civil works contract for the construction of the entire
Port-au-Prince distribution network renovation. However, the contract was
divided into two parts and the validity of the second part was conditional on
the Haitian Government obtaining the IDA credit for the Fourth Power
Project. The work to be performed under the first part of the contract
during the period 1984-85, estimated at US$3.0 million, is being financed
with proceeds of credit 1281-HA. Since the contract was awarded under
international competitive bidding with the approval of IDA, and considering
reasons of economy and efficient completion of the distribution renovation,
it was accepted that this contract be considered advance contracting, and the
work to be performed during the second period of the contract (period
1986-87, approximately US3.0 million) be financed with IDA funds of the
proposed credit.
3.17      Spare parts for the diesel-electric groups at Varreux, Carrefour
and Peligre, the cooling tower for Varreux and miscellaneous auxiliary
equipment would be purchased directly from the original manufacturers of the
equipment in Holland, Zrance and Italy. At the request of EdH, the
consulting services related to the Carrefour power plant expansion and
network rehabilitation may be provided by their present consultants,
Hydro-Quebec International (HQI) of Canada. Also at the request of EdH, the
services of their present administrative and financial consultant, Price
Waterhouse of Canada, would be extended to cover the proposed projest.
3.18      CCCE would f4nance the materials, equipment and civil works of
French origin for the expansion of the Carrefour power plant. EdH decided,
with the assistance of their consultant, HQI, and the approval of the
Government, to purchase directly the two additional groups and step-up
substation from Alsthom Atlantique of France, the same supplier for Units 1,
2 and 3. Two reasons led EdH to this decision with which IDA and CCCE
agreed: (i) Groups 1, 2 and 3 were purchased under ICB, and have been the
basis for negotiating Groups 4 and 5, resulting in reasonable prices, and
(ii) standardization of equipment would facilitate operation and maintenance
of the power plant and would lower the investment in the stock of spare
parts.
3.19      There are no local manufacturers in Haiti wbo would claim a bid
-naluation preference in the procurement of equipment and materials.



- 15 -
l3owever, local civil contractors would be given a preference of 7.5% for the
purpose of bid evaluation. All bidding packages over US$50,000 equivalent
would be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement documents. All1
requests for disbursements of funds wuld be fully documented. Disbursements
would be made for 10O/ of the foreign exchange cost for IDA-financed civil
works, equipment, materials, consulting services and training including
fellowships. Disbursement for municipal finances study would be made for
100% of total cost. Disbursements for contracts parallel finance4 by CCCE
would be made directly by that agency.
Economic Evaluation
3.20      The proposed project is an initegral part of Edli's least coBt
expansion program; it includes the required investment for the period 1986-87
for the Port-au-Prince area. Since it is difficult to allocate benefits to
each component of the project, an economic evaluation of the proposed project
was not done. Instead, the internal rate of return for EdHI's overall
investment program for the slice 1984-88 was computed as the discount rate
equalizing the present value of the stream of costs and benefits associated
with it. The cost stream, in 1983 constant prices, comprises the capital
cost of the development program and the incremental operation and maintenance
costs related to the incremental sales associated with the program. As a
proxy for benefits, the revenues derived from incremental sales were used,
assuming that tariffs would be adjusted as necessary to neet the financial
objectives proposed in this report. No economic evaluation was made
utilizing shadow prices or to reflect other benefits to society and the
economy of the country, such as those derived from improvement of quality of
service to customers and availability of energy for new industries. Vo
attempt was made to assess consumer surplus as the willingness to pay may
exceed the existing tariffs. On these assumptions, the Internal rate of
return for the program is 11% (see Annex 4). This rate is equal. to the
opportunity cost of capital in Haiti. A. sensitivity analysis shows the rate
of return to be very sensitive to changes in electricity tariffs and sales
and moderately sensitive to changes in capital costs and fuel costs.
Project Risks
3.21      Except for the possibility of delays in its implementation, the
project involves no unusual risks and has no adverse impact on the
environment; the risk of delays would be diminished by the hiring of
consultants to assist the limited number of EdH qualified engineers in
supervising project execution.



- 16 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
Cost Es timates
4.01      Cost estimates are shown in detail in Annex 5 and summarised below:
Cost in US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
1.  Expansion of the Carrefour diesel
plant with two units rated 7.8 MW each,
including step-up substation                     0.9        7.5         8.4
2.  Generation improvement program                   0.1        7.8         7.9
3.  Completion of the distribution network
renovation at Port-au-Prince                     0.8        4.5         5.3
4.  Consulting services and training                 0.7        4.0         4.7
5.  Total base cost (1983 prices)                    2.5       23.8        26.3
6.  Physical contingency (10% of base cost)          0.2        2.4         2.6
7.  Price contingency a/                             0.6        4.3         4.9
8.  Total EdH's project cost                         3.3       30.5        33.8
9. Municipal finances study                          0.1        0.4        0.5
10. Interest during construction                     3.7          -         3.7
11. Total financial requirements                     7.1       30.9        38.0
a/  Assumed indices for price escalation are as follows (in %):
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Local Cost               10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Foreign Cost              3.5      8.0     9.0      9.0     9.0
Implementation Schedule
4.02      The appraisal mission agreed with EdH on the list of contracts and
key dates for implementing the project, which are shown in Annex 6.  These
dates would be used to monitor progress during the execution period of the
project, which is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.



- 17 -
Procurement Details
4.03      The following table summarizes procurement arrangements for the
project.
Procurement Method    Total
ICB          Other       Cost
--------US$ Million
IVA FinancinAg
Materials, equipment and civil works for           7.3              -         7.3
the distribution network renovation               (6.0)            -         (6.0)
Spare parts for Varreux, Carrefour and
Peligre power plants, including miscel-
laneous auxiliary equipment and a cool-              -            8.8         8.8
ing tower for Varreux                                -           (8.7)       (8.7)
Technical assistance services for
power plant operation and                            -            1.3         1.3
maintenance                                           -          (1.2)       (1.2)
Consulting services for the execution of             -            2.0         2.0
the project                                          -           (1.8)       (1.8)
Administrative consultants                           -            1.0         1.0
(1.0)      (1.0)
Consulting services for the design                                3.0         3.0
of a new hydroelectric project                       -           (2.8)       (2.8)
Training and fellowships abroad                      -            0.3         0.3
(0.2)      (0.2)
Municipal finances study                             -            0.5         0.5
(0.5)      (0.5)
CCCE Financing
Two diesel groups and step-up                        -           10.1        10.1
substation for the Carrefour                         -           (8.9)       (8.9)
power plant expansion
Total                                               7.3          27.0        34.3
(6.0)       (25.1)      (31.1)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by
the Association and CCCE.



- 18 -
Disbursement Schedule
4.04      The disbursement schedule shown in Annex 7 is based on a detailed
construction and implementation program prepared by EdH and the appraisal
mission, and is based on recent experience acquired from the execution of the
First, Second and Third Power Projects; it has been assumed that there would
be a delay of six months between the completion of the various stages of a
contract and the disbursement of funds, and that a period of twelve months
would elapse between the time of completion of a contract and its final
liquidation. The estimated disbursement schedule is similar to Bank's
standard profiles, with the exception that the disbursement period has been
shortened to 4.5 years to take into consideration existing experience in the
power sector in Haiti.Z/ Credit closing date is June 1989.
Environmental Aspects
4.05      As has been done in the past, the project would be executed with
due regard to the environment. Specifications for the power plant will limit
gas emissions and noise to acceptable levels for generating facilities. The
new distribution network will use the same right of way as the old one,
improving its appearance.
Project File
4.06      Reference is made to Annex 8 for the contents of the project file.
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(i)   EdHI signed agreements with TELECO and Tele-Haiti in terms
satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.07).
(ii)  EdH started to implement a program to reduce energy losses to
acceptable levels (para. 3.07).
(iii) The Ministry of Finances agreed to settle the arrears for
electricity consumption by the public sector in terms satisfactory
to the Association and starring in FY 1984-85, to take all measures
necessary or advisable to ensure that current electricity bills are
paid promptly when due (para.2.13).
2/  IDA's profiles for all Latin American and the Caribbean countries show
total disbursement in 5.5 years, or 6 years for IDA-financed projects in
Haiti.  Disbursements for EdH's First Power Project were completed in 3
years, and estiaates for the Third Power Project are 4.5 years. However,
disbursements for the Second Power Project would be completed in only 5
years due to project execution delays.



- 19 -
(iv)   CCCE has officially accepted to parallel finance the project in the
amount of FF 72.0 million (para. 3.13);
(v)    EdH would continue to set tariffs adequate to assure rates of
return on revalued fixed assets of not less than 5% in FY85 and 86,
7% in FY87 and 8% in FY88. (para. 2.11);
(vi)   EdH agreed to an acceptable set of financial and efficiency targets
to improve its operations (Annex 1, para. 1.12).
(vii)  terms and conditions for the subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and. EdH (para. 3.14);
(viii) the Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement for the
proposed project will repeat the main covenants of the Third Power
Project agreements related to the execution of the project,
management and operations of EdH and financial covenants (para.
2.08).
Conditions of Effectiveness
5.02      The following events were agreed as conditions of effectiveness:
(i) the execution and delivery of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and EdH (para. 3.14);
(ii) EdH and ODVA have entered into an agreement satisfactory to the
Association (para. 2.09).
5.03      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for an IDA credit of SDR 21.8 million, equivalent to US$22.1 million to the
Republic of Haiti, from which the amount of SDR 21.3 million would be on-lent
to EdH for a period of 20 years, including 4 years grace, at the annual
interest rate of standard Bank loans.
October 25, 1984



- 20 -
ANNEX I
HAITI
J41ECTRICITE D'HAlTI - EdH
FOURTH POWER. P!tOJECT
THE BENEFICIARY
Institutional Framework
1.01      The beneficiary of the proposed IDA credit for the Fourth Power
Project would be EdH, an autonomous government-owned agency, established by
presidential decree in 1971 as the sole entity in charge of generation,
transmission and distribution of electricity in the country. EdH began its
operations in 1571 by taking over the Government-owned Peligre hydroplant and
the privately owneai Compagnie d'Eclairage Electrique of Port-au-Prince and
Cap Haitiea; since then it has gradualLy taken control of all electric
service in the country.
1.02      The President of EdH is the President of the Republic, who
delegates authority on a permanent basis to the Minister of Public Works,
Communications and Transport who acts as the Chairman of the Board of
Directors. Other nembers of the Board are the Minister of Finance and
Industry, the Minister of Commerce, the Minister of Planning, the Governor of
the Central Bank and EdH's General Manager.  Policy directives at EdH are set
by its President; the Board regulates and approves major investment plans,
tariffs, borrowings and broad policies.  The General Manager has a reasoadble
degree of autonomy to direct the company.
Organization and Management
1.03      EdH's current organization (Attachment 1) was the result of an
organizational study conducted in 1981 by the consultant, Price Waterhouse
(PW) of Canada, as part of IDA's Second Power Project and is considered
adequate for today's operation. EdH's General Manager is appointed by the
President of the Republic; the Technical, Planning and Administrative
Directors are also appointed by the President on the recommendation of the
Board. The presence of the consultant, PW, has contributed to the
improvement of accounting and administrative procedures. In the technical
departments, however, improvements have been more modest, partly because the
technical consultant, Hydro Quebec International (HQI), has not had the right
people to transfer technology, partly because of the lack of engineers and
technical personnel at EdH to act as counterparts to the foreign experts.
Employment
1.04      By September 1983, EdH employed 1,246 persons (about one employee
for every 70 consumers), of which 370 are in the Provinces. In general, EdH



- 21 -
continues tco lack enough qualified managerial, technical and adminiatrative
personnel, ai.4 the dependency on costly foreign consultants will continue for
several years until a number of young professionals graduated in Haiti have
been trained and have acquired enough experience to take over technical and
managerial responsibilities. EdH's search for Haitian professionals outside
of their own country has been unsuccessful. The total number of profession-
als with university degrees is 96 (or 8% of the total employees), of which 55
are engineers. Salaries are mDdest and average for the Haitian market.
EdHIs hiring of new personnel is guided by a Manpower Forecast made by the
consultant, HQI, which predicts 1,490 employees by 1988, or one employee for
every 98 consumers.
Training
1.05      EdH has a well organized  Centre de Formation et Perfectionnement
Professionnels" responsible for trainlng programs conducted in-house and
abroad.  The Center has a staff of five full time instructors and two secre-
taries.  EdH professionals also teach some courses and seminars, and special-
ized instructors are hired from local sources and abroad.  Part of the cost
of foreign training experts and facilities and overseas expenses of trainees
has been financed by IDA; other contributors are XfW and the Fonds d'Aide et
de Cooperation (FAC) of France.  In the last four years about 35
professionals have attended courses and seminars abroad, anid about 300
employees from the technical and administrative areas have attended local
short courses and seminars on varied subjects such as linemen techniques,
metering, welding, diesel operation and mechanics, hydro-plant operation,
fitting, first aid, accounting, administrative and control techniques, data
processing, secretarial techniques, alphabetization, etc.
1.06      Under the proposed Fourth Power Project, the Association would
continue its support to EdH's training efforts. Specifically, the project
includes the hiring of 108 man-months of expatriate technical experts to
operate and train on-the-job the supervisors, operators and maintenance
personnel for the medium speed diesel groups installed at Varreux and
Carrefour, and funds to cover the foreign cost of the 1986-87 training
program of EdR and fellowships abroad.
Accountirg and Auditing
1.07      With the introduction of computerized systems, accounting proced-
ures and reporting have improved substantially in 1983. As a result, monthly
financial statements are being issued within 60 days of closing dates. An
area that still needs improvemunt is the accounting of construction in pro-
gress; this will be addressed by the administrative consultant in the near
future. In accordance with covenants of Credit 1281-HA, EdH's assets are
revalued yearly using international indices approved by the Association.
This provision has been maintained in the proposed credit.
1.08      Since 1976, EdH's accounts have been audited by Price Waterhouse
Company of Puerto Rico, an independent auditing firm acceptable to the
Association. As in previous credits, EdH agreed to continue engaging



- 22 -
qualified external auditors to review yearly its accounts, and to send to the
Association audited financial statements, including the Auditor's
recommendations, within four months of the end of each fiscal year. Internal
auditing of EdH is adequate aud is carried out by a unit attached to the
General Manager.
Billing and Collectiun
1.09      Within the context of the Second Power Project (Credit 895-HA),
EdH, with the assistance of the consultant, PW, installed computer facilities
and a modern data processing system for customner billing and accounting. EdH
personnel adapted quickly to the new system which is working well. Billing
is made in Port-au-Prince for customers for the entire country, and bills are
distributed by carriers and by mail. When the billing system was
computerized, EdH discovered that about 6,000 customers, although being
billed, were not accounted for in the total of customers. That explains the
large increase in customers from 1982 to 1983 (1982: 75,000 consumers; 1983:
87,000. See Attachment 2).
EdH's Relations with other Agencies
1.10      At the time wf appraisal of the proposed project, the Government
did not meet a covenant of Credit Agreement 895-HA, Section 4.04, which
stipulates that Telecommunications d'Haiti S.A.M. (TELECO) and the television
company Tele-Haiti shall rehabilitate their respective networks at the same
time as EdH does its distribution system. During negotiations, evidence was
presented that this condition was met, as EdH signed agreements with both
institutions regulating the use of common elements such as distribution
poles; the agreements include provisions for the relocation of telephone and
television cables, payments due to EdH for the use of poles, engineering
standards to be used, provisions for the rehabilitation, operation and
maintenance of the network, etc.
1.11      In order to optimize the use of the waters of the Artibonite River
where Haiti's major power developments are or will be located, the Government
accepted the suggestion of IDA's previous supervision missions and of the
appraisal mission, that an agreement should be signed between EdH and
L'Organisme de Developpement de la Vallee d'Artibonite (ODVA), a regional
irrigation authority. As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
credit, the Government would present a signed agreement between EdH and ODVA,
regulating the use of the waters of the Artibonite River for irrigation,
flood control and power purposes.
Performance Indicators and Reporting
1.12      The performance indicators shown in Attachment 2 have been
agreed with EdH as targets for improving its operational efficiency, and
substitute the targets agreed under Credit 1281-HA, some of which have not
been met. EdH also agreed to prepare and send to the Association quarterly
progress reports and other such reports as the Association may reasonably
request, including a project completion report.



- 23 -
Insurance
1.13      An external expert advised EdH in 1982 on the type of insurance and
risks coverage for their installations; as a result EdH updated their insur-
ance to cover all main installations, including warehouses and buildings,
against risks arising from fire, explosion, hurricanes, earthquakes, flood,
lightning, civil liabilities, and motor vehicle claims



HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI
Organization Chart
PRESIDENT OF
THE REPUBLIC
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
GENERAL
MANAGER
.~~ _
INSPECTOR   _   _ X         _ ITRNAL
GENERAL                          A  ADITOR
PLANNING         PROVINCES TECHNiCAL                                 ADMINISTRATIVE
DIRECTOR        COORDINATOR         DIRECTOR                            DIRECT OR 
_________               *.                                       .                      I    LEGAL
CTION AND                                                                I .    COUNSELOR
_    P LANN I NG   l    GENERATION  O    ATION        PERSONNEL        COMMERCIAL
DESiGNAND         NETWORKS           METERS          COMPTROLLER        PURCHASING
LOAD     |                                                              DATA     1
q  DISPATCHING  J   G                                                   PROCESSING
CIVIL
ENGINEERING                                                                                                  >
World Bank - 23140 11



HAITI
ELECTRICITE DI HAITI (EdH)
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Performance and Monitoring Indicators PY81-88
- -   -    Actual -                                     Forecast
Fiscal Year                                                 FY 81       FY 82       FY 83       FY 84       PY 85       FY 86       FY 87       FY 88
1.  Market Penetration
Sales in P.au.P. (GWh)                                    210         220         225         239         257         280         308         342
Sales In Provinces (GWh)                                   23          28          32          36          40          44          48          53
Number of customers, P.au.P. (1,000)                       52          55          63          69          76          83          91         100
Number of customers, Provinces (1,000)                     19          20          24          28          32          36          41          46
2.  Efficiency Indicators
Number of employees P.au.P. a/                            882         933         874 b/      925         950         995       1,020       1,060
Number of employees Provinces a/                          263         277         372 b/      385         395         405         420         430
System losses P.au.P. (2) h/                               29          31          32          29          27          23          20          17
System losses Provinces (2) h/                             28          16          15          15          1)          15          15          15
Customerlemployee (total EdHY                              62          62          70          74          80          85          92          98
MWh soldlemployee (total EdH)                             203         205         206         210         221         231         247         265
MWh sold/consumer - P.au.P.                                 4.0         4.0         3.6         3.5         3.4         3.4         3.4         3.4
MWh sold/consumer - Provinces                               1.2         1.4         1.3         1.3         1.3         1.2         1.2         1.2        1
3.  Financial Indicators
Rate of return (M)                                          6.8         5.2         0           5.2         5.2         5.6         7.0         8.0
Self-financing ratio (Z) ct                                43          39          10          28          40          26          34          32
Debt service coverage ratio (times) d/                      5.1         4.6         1.5         3.6         2.5         2.2         2.4         2.2
Debt(equity ratio e/                                    28-72       35:65       40t60       44:56       45:55       48:52        49:51      48:52
Accounts receivable (days)                                 89         117         130         121          83          60          60          60
Current ratio fl                                            3.3         4.7         2.1         2.3         3.9         3.5         2.7         2.2
Average cost of borrowings (2 p.a.) If                      6.7         6.5         6.7         7.1         7.4         7.4          7.4        7.4
a/  Includes regular and temporary employees.
b/  In 1983, the operators for the Peligre power plant were administratively transferred from Port-au-Prince to the provinces.
c/ Net Internal cash generation plus consumers' contribution/construction program.
d/ Times that debt service (excluding IDC) is covered by gross internal cash generation.
e/ Total long-term debt/total equity.
T/  Current assets/current liabilities.
/   Total interest/average long-term debt (including current portion).
h/  As compared to gross generation.
October 12, 1984                                                                                                                                             'U
rt



- 26 -
ANNEX 2
HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI - EdH
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
THE POWER MARKET
Historical Data and Existing Power Facilities
1.01      Since the Peligre hydro station was completed in 1972, sales in the
Port-au-Prince area have grown at an average of 13% per year until 1983, but
decreased to 4.5% per year in the period 1980-83. This decrease is
attributed to the stagnant economic situation of the country, increase in
theft of electricity (para. 1.05) and in 1983, to power restrictions due to
an exceptionally dry year that limited EdH's capacity to meet the demand, and
a strong campaign displayed by EdH to recoup overdue electricity bills which
resulted in a disconnection of about 10% of EdE's customers. Sales in the
provinces, on the other hand, have grown steadily at the high average rate of
18.7% per year. The following table shows EdH's sales in both areas:
EdH's Electricity Sales, Losses and Number of Customers
1972   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Port-au-Prince Area
Sales GWh                        58.5  160.0  173.0  197.3  210.0  219.9  225.0
Losses GWh                       32.9   58.0   77.1   74.0   85.8   98.7  106.6
Gross Generation GWh             91.4  218.0  250.1  271.3  295.8  318.6  331.6
Losses in 7%                     36.0   26.6   30.8   27.3   29.0   31.0   32.2
Number cf Consumers (1,000)    27.7   43.4   46.8   48.3   52.0   55.0   63.0
Provinces
Sales GWh                       n.a.   13.6   16.0   19.5   23.0   28.0   32.0
Losses GWh                       n.a.    4.9    6.0    7.8    8.9    5.3    5.7
Gross Generation GWh             n.a.   18.5   22.2   27.2   31.9   33.3   37.7
Losses in %                      n.a.   26.4   27.1   28.5   28.0   15.9   15.1
Number of Consumers (1000)       n.a.   10.4   12.4   14.9   19.0   20.0   24.0
1.02      In October 1983, EdH had a total of 87,600 customers which
represent approximately 480,000 persons with electric service, or only 9
percent of the total population. In Port-au-Prince 43% of the population has
electric service, in the provinces only 3%. Attachment 1 shows details of
the distribution of electricity consumption among EdR's customers. An
indication of the poverty on the population is the high proportion of low



- 27 -
consumption customers: in October 1983, 31% of EdH's consumers were
classified under the "social rate" and consumed less than 30 kWh per wnrth,
and contributed to only 4% of the energy sales. These figures represent,
however, an improvement with respect to the 1981 situation when 43% consumers
were classified as "social rate". Because the minimum monthly charge is
US$3.79, this group barely covers amortization of the capital cost invested
to reach their neighborhoods (network, house connection and meter), Let alone
the cost of generating plants, fuel and maintenance costs. Therefore, a
large cross subsidy occurs from the larger consumers to the "social rate"
consumers located in the suburbs of Port-au-Prince (approximately 26%) and in
the provinces (49%).
1.03      As of October 1983, EdH had 146.6 MW of installed capacity
(Attachment 2), of which 120.4 MW serve the Port-au-Prince area, where the
maximum demand reached 61.3 MW in 1983. Despite the apparent large margin of
reserve, EdR could not meet the demand during April and May 1983 because the
Peligre hydro-plant (47 MW) was shut down as the reservoir was depleted due
to an exceptionally dry year, and because of initial difficulties experienced
with newly installed diesel electric groups at Varreux. The distributin of
capacity in the country and allocation of generation in FY83 are sbown below:
Summary of EdH's Installed Capacity and FY 1983 Generation
Installed Capacity Effective Dry Season FY 1983 Generation
Port-au-Prince      NW                     14 MW        %        GWh        X
Hydro Plants       47.0         39        21.6          26      177.5 a/   54
Thermal Plants    73.4          61        62.1          74      154.1       46
Sub-Total         120.4        100        83.7         100      331.6     100
Provinces
Hydro Plants        7.8         30         3.4          19        8.7       23
Thermal Plants    18.4          70        14.4          81       29.0       77
Sub-Total          26.2        100        17.8         100       37.7     100
Total EdH
Hydro Plants       54.8         37        25.0          25      186.2       50
Thermal Plants    91.8          63        76.5          75      183.1       50
Total             146.6        100       101.5         100      369.3     100
a/  In average hydrology years, hydro generation from Peligre is
236 GWh/year.



- 28 -
Captive Plant
1.04      There are no detailed records on the captive plant capacity
installed in the country which is estimated to be on the order of 40,000 kW,
all thermal type. The largest plants are owned by Ciment d'Haiti (14,475
kW), by Minoterie d'Haiti (5,575 kW), the lasco Sugar Mill (2,530 kW), Usine
Sucriere de Leogane (5,200 kW), LJsine Sucriere des Cayes and Usine Sucriere
du Nord. The rest are owned by isolated customers and by hotels, industries
and large homes who use them as emergency units in case of power cuts.
Energy Losses
1.05      Energy losses in the Port-au-Prince area have grown from 26.6% in
1978 to 32.2% in 1983 (see table in para. 1.01), and are due to technical
losses (about 16.0% in 1983) and theft (16.2%). Since losses are affecting
EdH's finances, IDA has continuously requested that EdH address the problem
through a strong campaign of theft suppression and reduction of technical
losses through distribution network renovation and system operations
improvement (i.e. power factor correction). To this effect, Edil established
a "Theft Suppression Comnittee", chaired by the General Manager and advised
by EdH's consultants (Price Vaterhouse and Hydro-Quebec International), but
their success has been limited because the poor condition of the distribution
network permits easy illegal connections; as work advances on the distribu-
tion renovation being financed by the Association, losses will begin
gradually to decrease, i.e., losses for FY84 have already been reduced to
.29%.
1.06      The renovation of the networks made by EdH in important towns in
the provinces (i.e. Cap Haitian, Gonaive) has helped to reduce losses from
26.4% in 1978 to 15.1Y in 1983. EdH is confident that similar success will
occur in Port-au-Prince.  The energy loss targets agreed with EdH under the
Third Power Project have not been met 'in 1983 losses should have been 25% in
Port-au-Prince); new targets agreed with EdH are 25% in FY 1985, 22% in FY
1986, 19% in FY 1987 and 17% in FY 1988 as an average for the entire EdH
system.
Forecasts
1.07      The general consultants to EdH (IIQI) forecasted future energy sales
and requirements using a model that considers both econometric and macro-
economic inputs related to historical and projected data for consumption and
economic growth. Several scenarios were considered, and the one recommended
by the consultant assumes a GNP growth of 1.0% in 1983, 2.2% in 1984 and 3%
thereafter, and that population growth and immigration to Port-au-Prince will
be 4.5% until 1985 and 4.1% thereafter. It also assumes that energy
technical losses and thefts will gradually decrease to 15% in 1990, and that
75% of suppressed theft would be transfered to legal sales as the situation
is corrected. The model shows that sales would grow in Port-au-Prince at a
rate of 12.1% from 1983 to 1988 and 10.2% from 1988 to 1993. The transfer of
thefts to sales accounts for about 0.6% of the rate of growth. If losses
decrease as predicted, generation would grow at only 8.7% per year during the
1983-93 period. For the provinces, sales and generation growth is forecast
at 9.2% for the 1983-93 period.



- 29 -
1.08      Although the resulting rates of growth for energy sales in Port-au-
Prince are higher than the historical rates achieved during the last three
years (para. 1.01), the appraisal mission and EdH agreed to use the
consultant's forecast for equipment planning purposes (see Attachments 3 and
4). However, for financial projection purposes, the mission and PdH
developed a more conservative sales forecast (see Attachment 5) which
considers an average growth of 9.0% for the 1983-88 period, starting with a
growth of 7% in 1984.
Generation LPnsion Program
1.09      The consultant HQI executed a detailed system expansion study and
compared several generation expansion alternatives in order to recommend the
least cot;t solution to meet the forecaseed e.ectricity demand for Port-au-
Prince. A mathematical model was used to simulate EdH's system using the
following criteria:
(a)  The average and firl energy from existing and proposed
hydroelectric projects were determined based on 25-year recorded
wiver flows, extrapolated to the end of the period being
considered.
(b) The capacity margin was determined to maintain the loss of load
probability (LOLP) within two days per year in the critical month
(April); the program  takes into account equipment reliability and
maintenance, and hydroelectric generation constraints in seasonal
and cyclical dry periods.
[c) Monthly simulations were made to evaluate the ability of the power
plants to meet the demand in average and dry year conditions.
(d)  Sconomic comparisons were made for the altern.atives considered,
determining their present worth of investment and operating costs.
1.10      A total of 12 basic alternatives were considered, combining in
various arrangements and tixming the following projects:
(a)  Guayamouc Hydroelectric Project, 22 MW, 85 GWh;
(b)  La Chapelle Hydroelectric Project, Alternative I with 34 MW, 166
GWh and Alternative 1I with 56.6 MK and 281 GWh;
(c)  Medium Speed Diesel Groups rated 2.2 MW, or 7.8 MW, or 15.0 MW;
(d)  Low Speed Diesel Groups rated 7.8 MS, or 10.0 MS, or 15.0 MW;
(e)  Steam Power Plants with 20.0 MW units, either coal fired or
fuel-oil fired;
(f)  Combined Cycle plants rated 20.0 MW.



- 30 -
1.11      Fuel costs were determined assuming the international 1983 price of
crude oil of US$29.0 per barrel remaining constant in real terms during the
period of the study, with sensitivity analysis for price increases of 2% and
3% per year in real terms. The present value of the various alternatives
were compared using a discount rate of 12%, with sensitivity analysis for
rates of 2% above and below that rate. The proposed expansion program for
the Port-au-Prince area is the following:
Total       Year of Operation
Plant and Type                            Capacity MW   (Beginning of-year)
Carrefour Power Plant: Diesel
Units Nos. 4 & 5, medium speed              15.6              1986
Slow Speed Diesel Plant.
Units Nos. 1 & 2                            20.0            1988-89
Guayamouc Hydroelectric Project               22.0              1990
Coal Fired Steam Plant: Unit No. 1            20.0              1992
Carrefour Plant:
Unit No. 6, medium speed                     7.8              1993
La Chapelle Hydro-electric Project            56.6              1994
Coal Fired Steam Plant: Unit No. 2            20.0              1995



HAITI
ELECTRICITE D' HAITI (EdH)
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Distribution of Electricity Consumption
(Actual figuTes for October 1983)
Port-au-Prince                               Provinces                                                  Total
Connections 1l  MUOh          Revenue    Connections 1  MNWh            Revenue       Connections l)   MUh                       Revenue
USSx103                                  USsx103                                       USSx103         US cents/kWh
Residential
0-30 kWh                                          13077           181            67          10348           158           39           23425            339            106                31
31-200 kth                                        27891         2737            387           9011           768          107           36902           3505            494                14
201-500 kWh                                        7513         2210            334           1412           396           59            8925           2606            393                15
501-1000 kWh                                       1508         1022            163             156          104           17             1664          1126            180                16
1001 kWh and up                                     64Z         1Z41            205              60          107           16              702          1348           221                 11
Sub-total                                      50631          7391          1156          Z0987          1533          Z38            71618          69Z4           1394                 16
Commercial
Light only                                         1702           549            89             170           21            3             1872           570             92                16
Light and power                                     656           390            64             137           70           12              793           460             76                17
Sub-total                                       2358           939           153             307           91            15            2665          1030            168                 16
Industry
Q-44i kW                                            646         1813            220              74          179           21              720          1992            241                12
45-kV and up                                        360         7823            927              98          676           61              459          8499           989                 12
Sub-total                                        1006        9636           1147             172          855           82             1178         10491           1229                 12
Governrment
Street lighting                                       27         552            113              81          187           38              108           739            151                20
Public organizations                                458          735            124             424          217           32              882           952            156                16
Autonomous organizations                            211         1073            142               1            -            -              212          1073            142                13
Sub-total                                         696        2360            379             506          404           70             1202          2764            449                 16
TOrAL                                          54691        20326           2635          21972          2683          405            76663         23209           3240                 14
_                                                                                                                                                            II!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
1!   Active customers connected to networks.  Does not include customers disconnected  by EdH due to non-pdyment of electricity bills (approximately 10,90
customers).
February 7, 1984



- 32 -                                          AiJEX 2
XttiaiMent 2
HA1IT
ELUCTUICITE D'lAtTI - EdH
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Existinig (October 1983) And Propose heNw Gonerating9 FaLility (to 19942
Cas Pelty KW
gtamPlats      Ifacr,.ve      Eflective
Location and  Name                        Tpe              Year                   __    _    Wet Sesaon       DrY Scason
1. Exiseing Power Plants
Port-au-Prince Area
Janvier (old) Plant
Units 5, 6                   Diesel-Oil        1942-56                 2,000           1,400          1,400
Unit 8                        Diesel-Oil         1937                     850            700             700
Unit 9                        Diesel-Oil         1937                     790            700             700
Unit 10                      Diesel-Oil          1949                   1.980          1,600          1.600
Unite 11, Bl, 12             Diesel-Oil        1942-55                 3,000          2,250           2.250
Unit 84                       Diesel-Oil         1970                  2,500           2,000          2.000
Four Emergency Groups         Diesel-Oil         1977                  8 000          6,400           6.400
Sub-Total Jarnvier                                               1,T11R         15,050          15,050
Deluas Plant
Unite 1, 2, 3, 4              Dieuel-Oil         1977                  10,000         8,000           8,00(i
Varreux Plant
Units 1, 2                     Bunker C          1977                  5 500          4,700           4,700
Unite 3, 4                    Bunker C           1977                 15,400         13,300           13,300
Unite 5, 6, 7                  Bunker C          1982                 23 400         21,000          21,000
Sub-Total Varreux                                                3090 00                        39,000
Peligre
nliie  1, 2, 3                  Hlydro         1972-74                47,000         44,000           21,600
Sub-Total Port-au-Prtnce                                                 120,420       106,050           83,650
Provinces
Cap Haaitian                 Diesel-Oil          1981                  4,050          4,000           4,000
Gonaives                     DLesel-Oll        1940-81                 2, 900         1,775           1,775
Saint  earc                  Diesel-Oil        1960-74                 1,150            900              900
Urouet                       Hydro               1978                  3,000          2,000           1,600
Leas Cayes                   Hydro               1982                  2,400          2,400           1,000
Leas Cayes                   Diesel-Oil        1975-80                 2,265          1,500           1,500
Petit Goave                  Diesel-Oil        1974-81                 1,400            840              840
Port-de-Paix                 Diesel-Oil          1982                  1,O00          1,000           1,000
deanel                       Diesel-Oil        1977-81                 1,350            850              850
Jeremie                       Diesel-Oil          n.a,                  1,165           800              800
Thonsonde                     Diesel-Oil         1976                      30            30               30
llinche                      Diesel-Oil        1977-80                   490            490             490
Areshaie                      Diesel-oil         1978                    225             120             120
Saut Hathurine               Hydro               1983                  2,400          2,400             600
Other Tobns                  Diesel-Oil        1979-83                 2,315          2,100           2,100
tib-Total Provinces                                                      26,240         21,205           17.805
Total Existing Power Plants                                                     146,660        127,255         101,455
2.  Future Pover Plants
Port-au-Prince Area
Carrefour Plant
(PMedium Speed)
Unite 1, 2, 3                Bunker C            1984                 23,400         23,400          23,400
Unite 4, 5                   BLnker C          1986/87                15,600         15,600          15,600
Unit 6                       Bunker C            1993                  7,800          7,800           7,800
Low Speed Dieael Plant
Unite 1, 2                   Banket C          1988/89                20,000         20,000          20,000
Cuayaeouc
Unite 1, 2                   Hydro               1990                 22,000         22,000          20,500
Coal Fired Plant
Unite t, 2                   Coal              1992/95                40,000         40,000          40,000
La Chapelle                      Hydro              1994                 56,600         56,600          19,100
Slb-Total Port-au-Prince Area                                           185,400        185,400         146,400
Provinces
J,ccel                           Hydro              1985                    500            500              250
Ce racol                         Hydro              1985                    750            750              400
Deluge-Lauzac                    Hydro              1986                    700            700              3SO
Voldrogue                        Hydro              1987                    120            120              6O
Small Diesel Units               Diesel-Oil       1984-90                 1,500           1,500           1,500
Sub-Total Provincea                                                        3,5.u          3,570           2,5b0
Total Future Power Plants                                                   188,970        188,970         148,98o
(Inatalled during 1984-94)



-33                                            ANNEX 2
Attachment 3
HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI - EdH
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Capacity Ba1ance for the Port-au-Prince System - MW
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
1. System Requirements
Required Gross Generation-GWh  331.6   352.8   382.8   411.3   444.3   483.8   530.6   582.4   634.6   691.9   760.0
Load Factor (X)                   61      61       61       61      61       61      61       61      61       61       61
Maximum Demand - MW               62.1    66.0    71.6    77.0    82.9    90.5    99.3   109.0   120.7   131.6   142.2
Demand During Dry Season MW       60.0    63.0    67.0    72.0    78.0    85.0    93.0   102.0   113.0   124.0   136.0
2. Available Capacity
2.1  Thermal Plants
Janvier                           15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    'q.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0
Delmas                             8.0     8.0      8.0      8.-     8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0
Varreux                           39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0
Carrefour                                 23.4    23.4    31.2    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    46.8
Low Speed Diesels                                                            10.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0
Coal Fired Plant                                                                                               20.0    20.0
Sub-Total Thermal              62.0    85.4    85.4    93.2   101.0   111.0   121.0   121.0   121.0   141.0   148.8
2.2 HydroPlants (Dry season)
.  -ell   an                      21.6    21.2    20.8    20.4    20.0    19.6    19.1    23.7    23.7    23.7    23.7
Guayamouc                                                                                     20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5
Sub-Total Hydro                21.6    21.2    20.8    20.4    20.0    19.6    19.1    44.2    44.2    44.2    44.2
2.3  Total Available Capacity          83.6   106.6   106.2   113.6   121.0   130.6   140.1   165.2   165.2   185.2   193.0
Less Required Reserve b/          32.0    38.0    40.0    40.5    42.0    44.5    45.5    51.5    51.5    56.0    58.0
3. Net Available Capacity              51.6    68.6    66.2    73.1    79.0    86.1    94.6   113.7   113.7   129.2   135.0
4. Capaclty Balance c/
Surplas (or aeficit)                (8.4)    5.6    (0.8)    1.1       1.0      1.1      1.6    11.7      0.7     5.2    (1.0)
Notes: a/  The decrease in capacity shown for Peligre is due to sedimentation of the reservoir.  This effect
will be partially stopped in 1990 when the Guayamouc Reservoir is completed; the gain of 4.6 MW at Peligre in
that year is due to additional water regulation at Guayamouc.
b/  Required reserve determined with the help oE probabilistic methods, for a loss of load probability (LOLP) of
two days per year during the critical period of the year (dry season).
c/  Capacity balance with respect to demand during the dry season.
January 4, 1984



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment 4
HAITI
BLECTRICIT U' HAITI - Eda
POURTH POWER PROJECT
Actual and Forecast Generation for EdHts Power Plante - GWh
1982 a/ 1983    1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
i. Port-au-PrinrLce Area
1.1  Sales b/                           219.9   225.0   249.5  280.4  315.2  354.6  398.2  "'44.1  495.0  539.4  588.1  646.0
Losses                              98.7   106.6   103.3  102,4   96.1   88.7   85.6   86.5   87.4   95.2  103.8  114.0
Required Groso Generation          318.6   331.6   352.8  382.8  411.3  443.3  483.8  530.6  582.4  634.6  691.9  760.0
1.2 Generation Dispatch
Thermal Generation
Joeoph-Janvier                    3.0    17.0 t/  2.5    2.5    2.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5
Delmas                            6.3    15.4 T/  2.5    2.5    2.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5
Varreux                          62.8   121.7    31.8   32.2   20.4   21.6   17.8   15.0   16.0   18.0   15.0   23.0
Carrefour                         -        -      80.0  110.0  150.0  185.0  180.0  170.0  150.0  180.0  160.0  180.0
Low Speed Diesel                  -        -        -      -       -       -     50.0  110.0  120.0  120.0  120.0  140.0
Coal Fired Plant                  -        -        -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -      80.0  100.0
Sub-Total                         -      154.1   116.8  147.2  175.4  207.6  248.8  296.0  287.0  319.0  376.0  484.0
Hydroelectric Generation
Peligre                         246.5   177.5   236.0  235.8  235.6  235.4  235.z  235.0  231.0  231.0  231.0  231.0
Guayazouc                                                                                        64.0   85.0   85.0   85.0
Sub-Total                                177.5   236.0  235.8  235.6  235.4  235.2  235.0  295.0  316.0  316.0  316.0
1.3 Total Generation Port-au-Prince  318.6   331.6   352.8  383.0  411.0  443.0  484.0  531.0  582.0  635.0  692.0  760.0
2. Provincea
2.1  Sales b/                            28.0    32.0    35.9   39.8   44.0   48.3   52.7   56.9   61.2   65.5   70.9   76.8
Losses                               5.3      5.7      6.3    7.0    7.8    8.5    9.3   10.0   10.8   11.6   12.5   13.6
Required Groas Generation           33.3    37.7    42.2   46.8   51.8   56.8   62.0   66.9   72.0   77.1   83.4   90.4
2.2   Generation Dispatch
Theraal (Diesel-Oil)             23.9    29.0    18.2   14.8   19.8   21.8   25.0   29.9   35.0   40.1   46.4   53.4
lydro                             9.4      8.7    24.0   32.0   32.0   35.0   37.0   37.0   37.0   37.0   37.0   37.0
2.3  Sub-Total Provinces                  33.3    37.7    42.2   '46.8   51.8   56.8   62.0   66.9   72.0   77.1   83.4   90.4
3. Total Edl
3.1  Required Gross Generation           351.9   369.3   395.0  429.8  462.8  499.8  546.0  597.9  657.0  712.1  775.4  850.4
3.2 Generation Dispatch
Thermal - By Type of Fuelt
Diesel Oil d/                    33.2    61.4    23.2   19.8   24.8   22.8   26.0   30.9   36.0   41.1   47.4   54.1
Bunker C e/                      62.8   121.7   111.8  142.2  170.4  206.6  247.8  295.0  289.0  318.0  295.0  343.3
Coal                              -        -        -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -     80.0      .0
Sub-Total Thermal                96.0   183.1   135.0  162.0  195,2  279.4  273.8  325.9  325.0  359.1  422.4  497.4
Hydro Generation                   255.9   186.2   260.0  267.8  267.6  270.4  272.2  272.0  332.0  353.0  353.0  353.0
Total Generation                   351.9   369.3   395.0  429.6  462,8  499.8  546.0  597.9  657.0  712.1  775.4  850.4
ai  Actual data.
k/  Sales forecast for equipment planning purposes.
c/  Includes generation from emergency unito (gas turbines at Janvier and small diesels at Dalmas) used during the
shutting-down of Feligre due to low level at reservoir.
d/  Generation at Janvier, Delmis and Provinces.
e/  Generation at Varreux, Carrefour and Slow Speed Diesels.
February 10, 1964



HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'IAITI - EdH
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Actual and Forecast Sales - GWh
(For Financial Projections)
1982        1983         1984         1985         1986        1987         1988
Port-au-Prince Area
Residential and Commercial            93.9         97.2        103.3        111.1       120.8        133.0        '48.0
Industrial                           108.2        110.3        117.2        126.1       137.1        150.9        168.0
Government                            10.5         10.3         11.0         11.8         12.8        14.1         15.7
Street Lighting                        7.3          7.2          7.6         8.2          9.0          9.8         10.9
Sub-Total                            219.9        225.0        239.1       257.2        279.7        307.8        342.6
Losses                                98.7        106.6         99.1         94.1        85.0         77.0         70.2
Losses (% of Gross)                   31.0         32.2         29.3         26.8        23.3         20.0         17.0
Gross Generation                     318.6        331.6        338.2        351.3       364.7        384.8        412.8
Provinces
Residential and Commercial            16.9         18.0         22.0         24.4        27.1         29.8         32.7
Industrial                             6.9         10.3          9.0         10.0        11.1         12.2         13.3
Government                             2.2          2.2          2.6          2.8         3.0          3.3          3.5
Street Lighting                        2.0          1.9          2.3         2.6          2.8          3.0          3.2
Sub-Total                             28.0         32.0         35.9        39.8         44.0         48.3         52.7
Losses                                 5.3          5.7          6.3          7.0         7.8          8.5          9.3
Losses (% of Gross)                   15.9         15.1         15.0         15.0        15.0         15.0         15.0
Gross Generation                      33.3         37.7         42.2         46.8        51.8         56.8         62.0
Total EdH
Sales                                247.9        257.0        275.0        297.0       323.7        356.1        395.3        >
Losses                               104.0        11.2.3       105.4        101.1        92.8         85.5         79.5        & S
Losses (% of Gross)                   29.6         30.4         27.7         25.4        22.3         19.4         16.7        I x
Gross Generation                     351.9        369.3        380.4       398.1        416.5        441.6        474.8
December 16, 1983



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EDH)-
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Earnings
1.01      Prior to 1975, EdH's financial performance was weak, mostly because
of inadequate tariffs and high energy losses. Hlowever, as a consequence of
IDA's involvement in the sector, EdH's finances improved gradually in the
period 1975-82. Sales growth increased at an average 13% per year over the
period but declined to about 7% in the period FY80 to FY82. Rates of return
on average revalued assets in operation for the latter period were in the
range of 5.7% and although somewhat lower than the covenanted rates of 8%,
were adequate to meet EdR's cash requirements.
1.02      Financial conditions deteriorated sharply in F"83 (Attachment 1).
This situation resulted from a combiniation of low hydro generation because of
an extremely dry season, the failure of thermal generating units at Varreux
partly compensated by EdH by hiring portable thermal units from outside
Haiti, and the lower demand of electricity due to economic recession. Growth
of sales in FY83 was about 4%, although this could have been 6% without the
rationing that took place because of the dry season. The rate of return for
this year was close to zero.
Present Financial Position
1.03      EdH's financial position as of September 30, 1983 (es-' of FY83) was
adequate. The debt/equity ratio was 40/60 and the current ratio 2.1 times.
However, the amount of MUS$6.9 due by the Government for unpaid electricity
consumption was a matter for concern, and caused EdH liquidity problems
(para. 1.05). EdH's balance sheet as of September 30, 1983 is summarized
below (see Attachment 3):
Summary of Balance Sheet for FY83
NUS$     Percentage
Fixed Revalued Assets                                      167.4             90
Non-Current Receivable (Government) a/                       3.6              2
Current Assets                                              15.6              8
Total Assets                                          186.6           100
a/ Portion of Government accounts receivable for electricity consumption not
included in Current Assets.



- 37 -
Financed by:
Equity (including Revaluation Reserve)                  106.3            57
Long-term Debt                                           69.6            37
Curr-.it Liabilities                                      7.6             4
Consumer Contribution                                     3.1             2
Total Equity and Liability                         186.6           100
1.04      The Government is EdH's main creditor as all the financing from
international development organizations, as well as the official aid, is
received by the Government and on-lent to EdH. As of September 30, 1983, the
sources of credit and loans received by EdH were as follows: IDA and EEC,
MUS$39.5 (57%); KfW, MUS$16.0 (23%); CIDA, MUS$7.4 (11%), and CCCE and
others, MUS$6.7 (9%).
1.05      The Ministry of Finances signed an agreement, in terms acceptable
to the Association, under which the Government (a) will settle its arrears
(US$6.1 million at the end of FY84) in lump sum payments in FY85, 86 and 87
and (b) will pay on time current electricity bills, including public
lighting, starting in October 1984, the first month of FY85.
1.06      With the assistance of Consultants (SOFRELEC of France), EdH
implemented in 1976 a new tariff structure based on the principle of marginal
costing. As part of the Third Project, EdH's consultant, HQI, prepared a new
tariff study based on the same principle confirming that the present tariff
structure is adequate and suggested some minor changes which were introduced
by EdH in FY84. The tariff includes a fuel surcharge adjusted quarterly and
incorporated into the basic tariff at the end of the fiscal year (see present
tariff in Attachment 8). The average tariff for FY83 was US cents 12.8 per
kWh, and it has been projected to grow at an annual rate of 10% during the
period 1984-88, or the same rate assumed for local inflation and in line with
what EdH has achieved in recent years. The projected annual average tariffs
are about equal to the long-run marginal cost estimated by the consultant,
HQI. At the beginning of FY84, after incorporation of the fuel surcharge
into the basic tariff, the average tariff reached US cents 14.0 per kWh,
which is close to the average tariff needed to meet financial requirements in
that year (US cents 14.2 per kWh), therefore only minor adjustments were
required in that year.
Future Financing
1.07      The financial forecast for the period 1984-88 (Annex 2, Attachment
5; Annex 3, Attachments 1, 2 and 3) shows that EdH's financial performance is
expected to be satisfactory through FY88, assuming the following: (a) annual
tariff increases of 10% in nominal terms, (b) sales would gradually increase
from 7% per year in FY84 to llZ in FY88, as the present economic recession
improves, and (c) operating costs would increase at 18% average per year,
which is considered reasonable (see footnotes of Attachment 1). The rate of
return would range between 5.2% in FY84 to 8% in FY88, the debt/equity ratio
would reach a maximum of 48/52 in the latter year and the debt-service



- 38 -
coverage would have a minimum of 2.2 times in the period, permitting EdH to
carry out its investment program without strain. During negotiations, the
Govesnment and EdH agreed to maintain adequate tariffs to enable EdH to have
a rate of return on the average current value of fixed assets in operation of
not less than 5% until FY86, 7% in FY87 and not less than 8% in FY88. These
rates of return would be sufficient for EdH to meet its cash requirements for
the 1984-88 period. The rates for the first three years are similar to the
ones reached in recent years; higher rates of return are required in the last
two years of the period considered because of the increasing amountB of debt
service and the need of self-financing the local funds of the proposed
investment program.
1.08      Because EdH's loan agreements have generally long grace and
amortization periods, at present the debt service is relatively low.
However, borrowings and debt-service will increase steadily during the period
1984-88, long-term debt will reach MUS$225 at the end of FY88, compared with
MUS$70 in FY83. Debt/equity ratio would be 48:52 in FY88 compared with 37:63
in FY83. To provide the Association with the opportunity to review the terms
of any future borrowings, the provision under Credits 1281-HA that EdH would
not incur any long-term debt without the Association's agreement, unless its
gross internal cash generation covers its maximum future debt service at
least 1.5 times, have been repeated under the proposed credit, amended to
establish that thie ratio should be calculated using reasonable internal cash
generation forecast rather than historical data. Similarly, the covenant
which limits EdH's short-term debt to one-sixth of annual cash operating,
maintenance and administrative expenses have also been maintained.
1.09      To ensure an orderly financing process and that only technically,
economically and financially sound projects are undertaken in the power
sector, EdH agreed, as under Credit 1281-HA: (a) not to undertake any major
expansion project (defined as in excess of 1% of current net fixed assets in
operation) other than those that have been reviewed by the Association during
this appraisal unless it has furnished to the Association satisfactory
evidence that such projects are economically justified and that it will have
adequate financial, technical and managerial resources to carry them out; and
(b) to limit the amount of unbudgeted village electrification to an aggregate
anrnual amount not to exceed 0.2% of current net fixed assets in operation.
1.10      It is essential that EdH devote all its financial resources to the
development of the sector if it is to self-finance a satisfactory proportion
of its investment program. The current provision under Credit 1281-EIA that
EdH's resources be devoted exclusively to its construction program, the
payment of its debt service and to its operation, have been maintained under
the proposed credit. Moreover, because EdH expects to have some temporary
cash surplusses beginning FY86 through FY88, the provision under Credit
1281-HA that the Government authorize EdH to maintain its liquid funds in
interest-bearing accounts or in interest-bearing investments, not exceeding
SiX months maturity, has been repeated in the proposed credit.



- 39 -
Investment and Financing Plan
1.11      EdH's 1984-88 investment program, including interest during
construction, requirements for working capital and other applications,
amounts to MUS$264.7 of which MUS$33.8 or 12.8% corresponds to the proposed
Fourth Power Project.  The ongoing works amount to M4US$44.1 (17%) and
include the following: (a) the renovation of the distribution system,
transmission lines and substations in Port-au-Prince; (b) construction of
Carrefour 23 MW diesel plant; (c) construction of a new head office; (d)
execution of a feasibility study of Guayamouc hydroelectric project; (e)
construction of the Jacmel and Caracol hydroelectric projects; and (f)
routine investments which include line extensions, rural electrification
projects, equipment acquisition, minor plant improvements, etc. Other future
projects amount to MUS$157.3 (59%) and include a low-speed diesel power plant
and the Guayamouc hydroelectric project and initial investments for a
coal-fired steam power plant and the new La Chapelle hydroelectric project.
Interest during construction is estimated at 14US$21.0 or 8%. The increase in
working r-- ;al requirements, which includes the acquisition of spare parts
.:aeration improvement program, amounts to MUS$16.8 or 6%.  The
1.... s     program and financing plan  .e summnarized below and are showa in
detail in Attachments 2 and 4.
1.12      EdH's net internal cash generation would finance MUS$71.8 or 27% of
the total requirements of the 1984-88 program; Government capital
contribution would fund MUS$9.8 or 4% of the totai. and would consist of the
greater part of interest charges paid by EdH on tne on-lent proceeds of CIDA
and KfW loans, and the contribution of MUS$1.8 for the repair of the Peligre
hydroelectric power plant; the remaining 69% would be covered by loans
amounting to MUS$183.3. Of this figure, MUS$31.6 comes from undisbursed
proceeds of existing loans, US$3r.5 from the proposed IDA credit and CCCE
loans and US$102.3 from future. unidentified loans that would come from
international financing institutions and official aid. Finally, US$18.9
million represents the financing of interest during construction.
Financing Plan for 1984-88
Requirements                                             MUS$           Percentage
Construction Program
Ongoing works                                   44.1                17
Proposed Fourth Power Project                    25.5 a/            10
Other Future Projects                          157.3                59
Sub-total                                    226.9                86
Interest during construction                    21.0                 8
Total                                        247.9                94
Increase in working capital                      16.8 a/             6
Total Requirements                           264.7               100



- 40 -
Sources
Gross internal cash generation b/                  122.1
Less: Debt service                                  50.3
Net internal cash generation                        71.8               27
Government contribution                              9.6                4
Borrowings                                         183.3               69
Existing loans                         31.6                   12
Proposed IDA Credit                    21.6                    8
CCCE loan for 4th Project               8.9                    3
Other future loans                    102.3                   39
Other cl                               18.9                   7
Total Sources                                  264.7               100
a/  An amount of MUS$8.3 of the proposed Fourth Power Project will be used to'
buy spare parts for the generation improvement program, and has been
ine.luded as an increase in working capital.
b/  Includes US$0.8 million of consumer contribution.
cl/ Includes IDC financed by different loans.
1.13      EdI's proposed financing plan for 1984-88 is reasonable.  EdH would
generate sufficient internal cash which, together with planned borrowings and
Government contribution, would enable timely carrying out of the proposed
project. The financing plan for the proposed project assumes a total credit
of MUS$30.5 to cover its foreign component, to be financed by a credit from
IDA in an amount of MUS$21.6, and b- tLWo CCCE loans amounting to an
equivalent of MUS$8.9.
1.14      From the proposed IDA credit of US$22.1 million, the Govennnt
will on-lend to EdH US$21.6 million at 9.89% for a period of 20 years with a
grace period of 4 years. During the grace period, interest during
construction would be capitalized. A subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to
IDA would be signed as a conclition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
EdH will bear the foreign exchange risk. Two loans totalling US$8.9 from
CCCE have been considered. Terms and conditions assumed bor financial
projections for tixese loans and for other future loans are shown in
Attachment 7.



aUTI
WC!XICIE D'UAITI (-a)
FOJUlT POM  PRDOJC!
Actual and Forcaat Incom Statemel1ts
(tboummud  of US$)
------- ----- Actual-------------  ---------------- Forecast-----------------
FY90      FV91     FY82      FY83      FVY4      FYS9      FY86      FY67      FY66
Sales (6W)  a/                                 216.1    232.4    247.9    257.6    275.0    297.0    323.7    356.1    395.3
Average Tariff (US cvnts/kNh)  bl                 9.0      10.7      11.2      12.8     14.3      15.7      17.3      19.0      20.9
operating Revenues
Energy Revanues                                 19509    24915    27667    32850    39325    46629    56000    67659    92618
Other Revenues                                    119       213        79        74      SO        ISO      200       200       200
Total operating Revenues                      1I627    25128    27746    3Z924    39475    46779    56200    67TSS             92919
Operating Expenses
Fuel  C/                                        4969      6237      7657    14612    11400    12750    15900    18780    24180
Lubricant Oil                                     314       456      527       1023       b&0      730       940      1160      1620
Uperation and  ¶aiuteonnce dl el                 4418     5117      6351      7967      8500    10000    119oO    13950    16300
General and Administration  di f1                1845     2498      2711      3134      3650      4100      4600      5160      5900
Sub-Total                                       11546    14308    17246    26736    24210    27580    33240    38950    47900
Depreciation  gJ                                3478      3965      4538      6289      6638      8269      9577    10659    1121                £
Total Operating Expense;                       15024    19273    21794    33025    30848    35849    42817    49609    59821
Operating Incose                                4603      6955      5962      -101      8627    10930    13383    18250    22997
Interest Charges  h/                            2017      2374      2896      4211      6078      8157    10426    13097    15964
Less: Interest Charged to Construction            t93       507       969      L029     3180      2407      2382      5076      7999
interest Charged to Operation                   1824      1067      1Y27      3182      Z89U      5750      8044      9021      7166
Net Income                                       2779      4999     4035    -3283       5729    S510        5339    10229    15131
Operating Ratio tX)                                77        73        79       100        79        77        76        73        72
Rate of Return (X)                                5.0       6.8       5,2     -0.1       5.2       5.2       5.6       7.0       B1.0
-------------_-------------------------------__- _----------- -- - --_--I
al Een Annex 2, Attachment 5.
bl Average tariff would grow at a rate of 10! equal to the assuoed local inflation rate.                                                    cx
Cl See Annex 3, Attachment 9.
dl The forecast assumes increases in the average salaries of approwimately 22 per year above 'e local inflation.
et operation and maintenance expees, excluding salaries, grow  at 202 p.a. and include  the spare parts for the progras
of generation improveennt.
it General and administrative exptnses, excluding salartes, grow  at an average of 10% p.a., which is in line with
historical growth.
9/ Based on the straight-line eethod. Weighted average annual depreciation of 3X was assumed.
hi Detai-1  of debt service statemeat are available in the project file.
MOy 31, 1984



. 42 
ANNEX 3
HA.I!                                                Attachmnt 2
ELgCTRICITE Dtg&ZTX (PdH)
vOUTaR' POWvR PROJECT
Eetiuated and Porecact Pids etatements
(thousand, of US$)
Actual                    - Forecast ------
Total
FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86       FY87      FY88    1984-88
SOURCES
Internal Sources
Operating Income                                          -101       8627     10930     13303    18250    22997    74187
Depreciation                                              6289       6638      8269      9577    10659      11921     47064
Gross internal cash generation                          6188      15265     19199    22960    26909    34918    121251
Less: Debt Service a/
Amortization                                                905      1345      1991      2383      4134      7836      17689
Interest Charges                                          4211      6078       8157    10426    13097       15864    S3622
Total Detbt Service                                     5116      7423      10148    12909    17231       23700    71311
Less: Interest during construction                         1029      3180      2407      2382      5076      7998    21043
Net Debt Service                                        4087      4243       7741     tO427    t2155    15702    50268
Net Internal Cash Generation                            2101     11022    11458    12533    16754         19216    70983
Borrowings
IDA 895-HA                                               3272      2640          0         0         0         0      2640
IDA 12Bl-HA                                              5457     12500      6800          0         0         0    19300
Proposed IDA                                                 0         0      5200      8900      4500      3000    21600
CIDA                                                     2592      5200          0         0         0         0      5200
KfW                                                      2738      1700        400         0         0         0      2100
CCCE                                                      ll      2100        300         0         0          0     2400
Proposed CCCE                                                0         0      2100      6400       400          0     6900
Future IDB                                                   0      t1OO         0         0         0         0      1100
Future K1W                                                   0         0      1200      1300         0         0      2500
Future Unidentified                                          0     2500       6100    21000    30300    38800    98700
Other  b/                                                3103      2326       2129      2173      4707      7568    18903
Total Borrowings                                      57973    30066    24229    39773    39907    49368   183343
Consuaers' Contribution                                      4L3       150       ISO       150       200       200        850
Government Contribution  c/                                  737      3051      1563      1670      1611      1666      9568
TOTAL SOURCES                                         21274    44289    37400    54126    50479    70450   264744
APPLICATIONS
Construction Program d/
Ongoing Works                                           24804    33900       10200         0         0          0    44100
Proposed Project                                             0       300      5500     13600      3100      3000    25500
Future Project                                               0      5200     13000    34600    46300    58200    157300
Total Zon,;truction                                   24804     39400    26700    48200    49400    61200   226900
Interest durini; construction                               1029      3180      2407      2382      5076       7998    21043
Total                                                 25833    42580    31107    50582    54476    69199   247943
Increase (decrease) in other assets                          671      -600    -2964          0          0         0    -3564
Yariation in Working Capital  el                           -5230      2309      9257      3544      4003       1252    20365
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                    21274     44289    37400    54126    58479    70450   264744
a/ Detailed debt-service statement in avail8ble in the project file.
bl Includes IDL financed from oans and other borrDo.ings.
c/ Includes interests from loans of CIDA and KfW that return to EdH to be used in rural electrification and other
projects. In FY84, it includes US$ 1,800,000 for Peligre repairs.
d/ See Attachment 4.
e/ For FY8S through FY87, it includes spare parts for the generation iaprcvement program 4inanced under the
proposed Fourth Power Project.
May 31, 1984



- 43 -
ANSIX 3
4IATf                                                   Attachmient 3
ZU2CR?CZTE D'IAIT  (EdR)
IOW1R1 POWEt PROJECT
Actual nd Porecaa Saalca Sheets
e housands cof8 
.............---""-"----   --------------- For- cast
FYBO      FY82      FV62      FY63      FY84      FY85      FY86      FYV7      FY88
ASSETS
Plants in operation                            128679   139797    166319   192233   250292   300995   337457   373118   421600
LeossAccunulated Depreciation                   31242    34596    40375    49662    60025    72496    86423   102267   t20324
Not Plants  al                               97437   105201   125944   142571   190267   229499   251034   270851   301234
Work in Progress  b/                            10969      9414     1 Ib61    24948    23786    21710    53890    92952   136047
total Flxid Assets                          109406   115         137805   167419   214023   250209   304924   363803   437331
Other Assets  c/                                 1767      2282      2893      3564      2964         0          0         O        0
Curret Assets
Cash and Bank                                  2620      4703      5655       966    -1282       2773      3631      5959      4886
Accounts laceivable (GoveTnvAnt) d/               0         0       700       8OO       0OO      1000      1150      127i      1450
Accounts RtaeivaUI  (Govorseot) e/                0         0         0      2500      3712      2964         0         0         0
Aecte.flectvable (Priv.8ector,Nnt)  f/    3213           3819      5308      4931      5450      6700      BC30      9800     12100
Other Accounts Receivable                       894      1602       590       506       600       600       600       650       650
Naterlal and Supplies  91                      4765      4569      5115      5633      7400    10300    12600    14500    14200
Other  h/                                       387       4e2       476       334       500       550       5S0       600       800
Total Current Assets                         11879    15175    17844    15570    17280    24087    26581    32784    34186
TOTAL ASSETS                                122052   132252    128242   186523   234297   275096   333502   396527   47115i7
LIAD1LITIES AND EQUITY
Equity
Capital                                      36309    40331    40365    40670    43721    45294    46954    48572    50238
Retained Earnings                            16840    23343    20324    26761    32490    37670    43009    53238    60369
Revaluation Reserve  1/                      27131     26399    30117    38898    49590    62908    76618    91680   107932
_ e_0_ _8_ _     _ _     _ __   _ _  __ _ _ _ __ __9_ 7_  ___ ---   -- - -   --- --   -- - -   -- - -   -- - -   -------____
Total                                      80280    90073    98806   106329   i25801   145862   166521   193490   226530
Long-term Debt  j/                              32496    35458    53338    69593    97668   119514   155153   187224   225296
Current Liabilities
Current portion of Long-tere Debt              2675       431       532      1345      1991   . 2383       4134      7836    11296
Interest payable                              2100      1379        112       900       150       1S0       ISO       200       200
Accounts Payable                               1565      1693      1878      3914      4000      2300      2400      2500      2600
Customers' deposits                             999     1121       1252      1385      1450    100        1350      1800      1650
Total Current Liabilities                   7339      4624      3774      7544       759I     6333      8234    12136    15746
Consumer Contribut ion                           1937      2400      2624      3087      3237      3387      3537      3737      3937
TOTAL LIABILItIES AND E9UITY              122052   132555   158542   186553   234297   275096   333505   396587   471517
a/ See Attachment S.
b/ See Attachment 6.
c/ Includes Government arrears for electr.'i tf  consueption to be settled  in FY84 through FY06.
d/ Represents 60 days of Government's bitl ings.
e/ Represents the current po,',!,- of Government arrears to be paid according to a new agreeineat signed with EdI4.
Al Represents 60 days billings in tne forecast period.
gi Forecast at 3. of plant in operation. Figure adjusted for FY85 through FYB8 to take into account tile building up of
the inventory of parts, to be fi2nanced under the proposed Fourth Power Project.
h/ lincJudes prepaid and deferred charges.In FY83 excludes USS 1,670,010 that correspond to unfunded pension fund.
I/ See Attachment 5.
j/ Details of debt nerVice statement are available in the project fi'le.
May 31, 1984



aAzrr
ILBC   XT1   D0 HAITI (515)
I"ntwsnt Progra for Period 1964-8d
(thousads of current US dollars)
Accunalsted to       P1 1984             FT 1985           n2 1986           PY 1987          FP 1988              PY 1984-88
PY 1983       loc_ l   Foreign    Le2_n   i                           Lool  Foreign   Local  Foeiin _Il  Forein   ota I
1. OltGOD PROJXCTS
Port-tn-PriDce Area
m secoad Po_r Project                                       5,032         300    2.900          -        -       -         -                                           300   2.900   3,200
IDA Third Pnver Project                                     8,474        4,50D    16.400    1,500    6,600                                                           6,000   23.000  29.000
CIDA TransieSiou Project                                    8,038           -      4,600        -        -        _        -        -        _        _        _         -    4,600   4,600
Ira Financed Stdie-e                                                      800     1,700         -        -        _        _        _        _        _        _       800   1.700   2,500
Genersl Plant and Routine Investmsnt                                        -         -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -         _       _       _
ProInces
KfW Jecoel Project                                            268         600       600       300      400        -        -                 -        -        -       900    1,000   1,900
Kil Carecol Project                                            86         400     1,100       500      900        -        -        -        -        -        -       900    2,000   2,900
Routine Ianvtements                                         2,950                                        -        -        -        -                                    -        -
Total  olngoag Proje.t                                  24,848        6,600    27,300    2,300    7,900        -         -       -        -        -        -    8,900   35,200  44,100
2. FUTURS 8'OJEMc
Pert-au-Prince Area
IDA Proposed Fourth Power Project
Carrefour Extension                                          -           -         -       600    2,300      600    6,600       100     400        -        -    1.300    9,300  10.600
Gezeration Iprovelnnt e/                                                -                 100      300        -       800       -      500        -      400       100   2,000   2,100
DiStributlon Rerovation                                      -                                      S -  100  50O  500    2,200  600    1,100      -    2,z0O     1,200    6,000   7,200
b8gieering Studies                                                     300         -       200    1,400      100    2,800      100      300        -      400       700   4,900  5,600
Sub-total Fourth Project                                             300               1,000    4,500    1,200    12,400     800   2.300         -    3,000     3,300   22200  25,50  el
tm, Speed DMesel Power Plant (2 units) u/                       -           -         -         -        -      100     1,800    3,500   12,600   2,400   10,700    6,000   25,100  31,100
Gaayerne Iydro-projeci a/                                                  100    1.000     2,800    3.900    8,100    15,600    8.200   14,000    9,600   18.000 bh  28,800  52,500  81,300
Coal Fired Pover Planet (T unit) a/                             -           -         -         -        -        -        -                 -      300   1,300 b/   300   1,300   1,600
La Chapelle Rydro-project a/                                    -           -         _         _        _        _         _       _        _   2,0W      3,200 b/ 2,000    3,200  5,200
Training and General Studies                                               100      300       100      600      100       900     100    1000      200    1,100       600   3.900  4.500
Cencral Plant aud Routine loeser                                -          900      900       700      800      900    1,100    1,000    1,100    1,400    4,700    4,900    8,600  13,500
Provinces
Doluse-Lanzec Project (lfY) a*                                  -           -         -       200    1,200      300    1.300        -        -        -        -       500   2,500   3,000
Voldrogne Project a        -                                                -         -         -        -      300       SO     400    1,000        -        -       700    1,800   2,500
rmU Diesels and lIne extension
Ceneral Studies                                                                       -         -      400      100       400      100     400        -        -       200   1.200   1,400
loutine Iunestienn*                                                        ZOo      300       200      TOO      300       900     300                      I,O 300    1,13 1,30  3,800   5.100
Total Pb,ture Projects                                       -        1,B00    3,700     5,200   13,300   11,600    36.600   14,800   54,600   16,600   44.600    50,000  132,800 1t2.800
3. TorAL rNvzS7Mr sr  ReN  (Correat FrIces                    24,648       8,400   31,000      7,500   21,200   11,600   36,600   14,800  34,600  16,600  44,600   58,900  168,000 226,900
Total by 'Tea                                                -            39,400            28,700            48.200             49.400          61,200                          226,900
A. IxVSz1 IN 1983 CONSTANr PRICES                                         8.000    30,000    6.500   19.000    9.100    30.9WO  10.600   27,500   10.80D  33,500    45.000  140.900 185,900
Note: 
*/ Included In the mot of the project to the aosocSttd tr      aom, sad the cost of eoginering and euper.iio,
Wf The Cuaymou  Projaet aill be coiletad in 1989, the Ceal-Jrad Plant in 1991 n  La Chapelle hydro in 1993
cf the cost of the spre parts  re not show  in the fnvmtmt  pFm, as thes  form pert of the workhng capital (U882.8 mllIlon In 1985, UsS2-9 dillion tn 1986 end E582.6 ulloliu  In 1987), and
win be charged to operating empecss darlag the period 1985-89.
VIb 31, 1984



MITI
ELXCTiUCITE DWHAITI (EdM)
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Actual and Forecast Rate Base
(thousands of US$)
-- tual        -              -----      - Forecast------------------
FY80     FY9I      FY92      FY83     FY84      FYS5      FY86     FY87      FY88
6r4s5 Fixed Assets (beginning FY)            111B7A   129679   139797   166319   192233   2502?2   300?75   337457   373118
Annual Revaluation                            14215         0      5578    13128    14417    I7TZO    18060    20247    22397
Annuai Caipitalization                         2598      1ilts    20944    12786    43642    33183    10402    15414    26103
6ross Fixed Assets (end FY)                  128a79   039797   L66319   192233   Z50S29   300995   337457   373118   421609
hWerage Gross Fixed Assets                   120278   134238   153058   171976   221263   275644   31922h   355289   397363
Accumulated Depreciation(beginning FYJ        24740    31242    34596    40375    49662    b0025    72496    86423   102267
Annual Revaluation                             302M      -611      1241     2999      3725      4202     4350      5185      6136
Annual Depreciation                            3478      3965      4538     6299      b639      8269     9577    10659    U9ZI
Accumulated Deprectatign (end FYI             31242    3S459      40375    49MO2    60025    72496    86423   102Z67   1Z0S24
Average Accumulated DepreciatioU              27991    32919    37496    45019    54844    66261    7Y46Q    94345   111296
Net Fixed Assets                              97437   105201   125944   142571   £90267   ZZ847?   251034   270851   301204
Average Nit Fixed Assets                      92287   101319   113573  104258   166411   209383   239767   260943   296o06
Dperating Income                               4603      6855      5962     -101      SW27    10930    133B3    16250    22997
Rate of Return (Z)                              5.0       6.8       5.2     -0.1       5.2       5.2      5.6       7.0       8.0
Depreciation Rate (7.                           2.9       3.0       3.0      3.5       3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0       3.0
Revaluation Rate (X)                           12.9       0.0       4.0      0.0       7.5       7.0      6.0       6.0       6.0
r3
May 31, 1984



HAITI
ELECTRICITE D1HAITI (EdH)
Fu7URTH POWER PROJECT
Statement of Changes in Work in Progress
(thousands of US@)
---------------- Forecast ----------------
FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87      FY88
lalance (beginning FY)                                   24948    2378h    21710    538990    92952
'1ts: Addition during the year                           39400    28700    48200    49400    61200
Interest during construction                             3180      2407      2382      5076      799B
.ess:Transier to plant in operation:
General plant & routine investment                       5250      2400      31l00     3300      7500
CIDA Transmission Project                                9538         0         0         0         0
CIDA Emergency thermal unit                                 0      1100         0         0         0
IDA Second Project                                       8332         0         0         0         0
IDA Third Project                                       16900    20574          0         0         0
KfW Jacmel                                                  0      2064         0         0         0
KfW Caracal                                                 0      2986         0         0         0
Fourth Power Project                                        0         0    11600       5900      8000
Deluge-Lanzac Project                                       0         0         0      3000         0
Voldrogue Project                                           0         0         O         0      2500
Small diesel units                                          0         0         0         0      4400
Distribution Projects                                     700       700       700       600       600
Gensral studies and training                              400      1100      1500      1600      1300
Interest during construction                             2522      2259      1502      1014      1903
Total transfer to plants                             43642    33183    18402    15414    26103
3alance (End FY)                                          23726    2171D0    5389e    92952   136047
May 31, 1984



HAITI
ElECTRICITE D' HAITI (EdH)
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Terms of Existing and Future Loans
Grace
Amount In                              Period    Haturity    Interest
Lender                         Loan No.            Purpose                 Date    Thousands            Currency          (Years)    (Years)    Rate (X)
Existing Loans
On-lent by Government
KIlf                           75-65-252           Drouet                  1976        5,400              D1                  7          30          5
KfW                            75-65-278           Gonaives                1976        2,500               [H                 7          30          5
KfW                            76-65-252           Drouet                  1978        7,543               114                7          30          5
KfW                            76-65-278           Gonaives                1978        4,300              E1                  7          30          5
KfW                            76-65-839           Cap. Haitien            1978        7,543               1M                 7          30          5
RfW                            80-65-359           Milot, Labdie,
Limbe                 1980        1,800               OM                10          30           5
KfW                            80-66-060           Saut Mathurine          1981       10,000               DM                10          30           5
KfW                            82-65-258           Jacmel                  1982        3.632               nH                10          30           5
KfW                            82-65-290           Caracol                 1983        5,600              i1                 10          30           5
IDA                               645-HA           1st Project             1976       16,00Q         US$ equiv.               2          28          8.85
IDA                               895-HA           2nd Project             1979       16,050         USS equiv.               4          20          8.0
IDA                              1281-HA           3rd Project             1982      23,100               SOR                 4          20          11.6
EEC                                 4-H            2nd Project             1979        6,000         USS equiv.               4          20           8
CIDA                          444-007-07           2nd Project             1980       17,100              Can$                4          20          8
CCCE                     58-78-00-82-01            3rd Project             1982       10,000              PF                 10          30    1.52 grace;
22 balance
CCCE                     58-78-00-82-02            3rd Project             1982      20,000                FF                 5          15         52
Future Loans
IDA Proposed Credit                                4th Project             1984      21,300                SDR                4          20          9.89
CCCE                                               4th Project             1984       24,000               FF                10          30    1.5! grace;
22 balance
CCCE                                               4th Project             1984      48,000                PP                 5          15           5
KfW                                                Deluge-Lun Zac          1985       6,750                LK                10          30          5
Unidentified                                       Various Project         1984      95,600          US$ equiv.               4          20          8
1986
1987
October 25, 1984                                                                                                                                                     a



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
HAITI                           Attachment 8
ELECTRICITE D' HAITI (EDH)
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Electricity Tariffs as of October 7, 1983
Basic Tariff    Fuel Surcharge   Total
Residential/Commercial customers
and Government
First 30 kWh                               USE12.81               -       USC12.81
Next 170 kWh                                   15.20              -          15.20
Above 200 kWh                                  16.99              -          16.99
Industrial customers
Low voltage (load  lower than 45 icW)          11.47              -          11.47
(Fixed charge: US$1.11/kW)
Medium voltage (load greater than 45 kW)
- peak hours 2/                             12.66              -           12.66
- off hours and Sundays                      5.98              -            5.98
(Fixed charge: US$1.1/kW)
High voltage
- peak hours 2/                             11.47              -           11.47
- off bours and Sundays                      5.31                           5.31
(Fixed charge: US$0.77/kW)
Public Lighting                                  20.39              -           20.39
1/ The fuel surcharge of FY83 was incorporated into the basic tariff at the beginning
of FY84.
2/ Between 7 am and 9 pm.
February 9, 1984



HAITI
ELECTRICITE D' HAITI (EdE)
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Fuel Cost Forecast
(For Financial Proiections)
-Actual--                           Forecast
PY 83      PY 84      PY 85       FY 86      PY 87      FY8B
1. Generation Dispatch GWh a/
Hydro Electricity b/
Peligre                                                         177.5      236.0       235.8      235.6      235.4      235.2
Guayamouc                                                         -          -           -          -          -          -
Provinces                                                         8.7       24.0        32.0       32.0       35.0       31.0
Sub-total hydro                                                 186.2      260.0      267.8       267.6      270.4      272.2
Thermal Generation
Diesel-Provinces                                                 29.0       18.2        14.8       19.8       21.8       25.0
Diesel Port-au-Prince                                            27.0        5.0         5.8        7.5        8.6       10.0
Bunker C Plants                                                 127.1       97.2       109.7      121.6      140.8      167.6
Sub-total thermal                                               183.1      120.4       130.3      148.9      171.2      202.6
Total Gross Generation a/                                       369.3      380.4       398.1      416.5      441.6      474.8
2. Fuel Cost Forecast
Diesel Oil Costs:
Generation GWh                                                   56.0       23.2        20.6       27.3       30.4       35.0        v3
Consumption - million gal. ci                                     5.6        2.32        2.06       2.73       3.04       3.50
Diesel oil cost, US$Igal. d7                                      1.36       1.50        1.65       1.80        1.96      2.14
Total Diesel Cost, millions US$                                   7.62       3.48        3.40       4.91       5.96       7.49
Bunker C Costs:
Generation GWh                                                  127.1       97.2       109.7      121.6       140.8     167.6
Consumption, million gal. c/                                      8.20       6.27        7.08       7.85       9.08      10.81
Bunker C cost, US$Igal. dI-                                       0.85       0.94        1.03       1.13        1.23-     1.34
Total Bunker C Cost, millions US$                                 6.98       5.89        7.29       8.87       11.17     14.49
Total  Fuel Cost, million of US$ b/                               -          9.37       10.69      13.78       17.13     21.98
Provisions for Dry-year, miliJioiL a  US$                         -          2.03        2.06       2.12        1.05      2.20
Total Fuel  Cost, million o:E US$                                14.60      11.40       12.75      15.90       18.78     24.18
a/  See Annex 2, Attac'ment 5, 'Actual and Forecast Sales for Financial Projections".                                                   n
b/  Hydroelectricity dispatch for average hydrological year is considered for the 1984-88 period. PY 83 was a dry year, this            a X
explains the high fuel consumption.                                                                                                 I w
c/  Average consumption for EdH power plants: 10.0 kWh/gallon for diesel oil engines and 15.5 kWh(gallon for Bunker C engines.    :F
d/  For financial forecasts, the fuel unit price paid by EdH for 1983 is assumed to increase at 3Z p.a. above international            %
infl-tion.
Ocrober 12, 1984



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
U_ATI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI - Edi4
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return for the 1983-88 Program
(In US$ millions, 1983 constant prices)
------ Costs -------------------              ----------        …--- Benefits -----------------
Incremental    Incremental
capital a/          0 & M           Fuel                        Incremental         Average Rates         Revenue
Year            Investment         Conts b/         Costs c/       Total         Sales GWh d/           US /kwh  e/       From Sales
1984               38.0              -                -             38.0             -                   13.7                0
1985               25.5              0.6              0.3           26.4            22.0                 14.0                3.1
1986               40.0              1.5              1.4           42.9            48.7                 14.3                7.0
1987               38.1              2.4              2.8           43.3            81.1                 14.6               11.8
1988               44.3              3.4              4.9           52.6           120.3                 15.0               18.1
1989                -                4.4              e.1           12.5           163.8                 15.4               25.2
1990                -                5.4             18.3           13.7           212.1                 15.7               33.3
1991-2019           -                6.5             12.2           18.7           265.6                 16.1               42.8
Sensitivity Analysis
Financial Rate
Case                     of Return x
1.  Base ca3e as ahown above                      10.6
2.  Capital investment increased by 10%            9.6
3.  0 & H costs increased by 10%                  10.5
4.  Fuel costs increased by 10X                   10.2
5.  All costs increased by 10%                     8.4
6.  Benefits decreased by 10Z                      8.7
Notes:
a/ Capital Cost
See "Investment Program", Attachesent 4 to Annex 3.  During this period, EdH would invest 89% of the total cost of the
22 MW Guayamouc hydroelectric project for operation early in 1990, and 100l   of the coat of the new 20 MW slow diesel
power plant for operation in 19C3-89.
bl Operattion and Mdaintence Costs
Incremental 0 & K costs with respect to the 1984 operation; see 'Forecast Income Statement", Attachment 1 to Annex 3:
0 & H costs were converted to 1983 constant prices, using deflactors.  0 & M costs related to the slow speed    diesel
power plant and Guayamouc hydroelectric plant are also included.
c/  Fuel Coots
Incremental fuel costs with respect to 1984 operation, including fuel costs related to the operation of the slow speed
diesel power plant. See 'Fuel Cost Forecast", Attachment 9 to Annex 3: these costs were re-calculated using the
following fuel prices, expressed in 1983 constant dollars:
-     Prices in US$ (1983) per bbl --
1983   1984   1985   1986   198)   1988
Crude Oil (FOB)       29.0   29.0   29.0   29.0   30.0   31.0
Diesel Oil (CIF)    39.3   39.3   39.3   39.3   40.5   41.7
Bunker C (CI?)        27.8   27.8   27.8   27.8   28.5   29.3
d/  Incremental Sales
See wV'Fecast Income Statemenr", Attachment I to Annex 3.  For the period analyzed (1984-1988), total incremental
sale- with respect to 1984 are cornsidered.  In addltion, Incremental sales for the years 1989, 1990 and 1991 are
;  Auded, in proportion to the invtestment made in generating plants in the 1984-88 period (Slow Diesel Plant: 100%,
,uayamouc; 89%); the last year conssidered is 1991, as from thio year both power plants will be fully loaded.
e/ Average Rate
Averagetasrlffs have been assumed to increase at a rate of 10% in current terms during the 1983-1991 period.  These
tariffs were deflated to 1983 prices, using deflactors which assumed that the influence of local costs in the cost of
electricity generation is about 30% and 70% the influence of foreign costs. The resulting tariffe ahow an increase of
2.3% per year in real terms.



- 51 -                                                ANNEX 5
hAITX
ELECTRICITE D'IHAITI - BdH
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
A. EdH's Project                                                                       Local       Foreign        Total
1. Carrefour Diesel Plant Expansion A/
Two diesel-electric groups rated 7.8 KW each including
foundation, erection and spare parts for 2 years.                                 0OO         7,100        7,900
Step-up substation including erection work                                          50          450           500
Sub-total Carrefour                                                                850        7,550        8,400
2. Generat ton Improvement Program
Installation of a new cooling tower at Varreux (SWD groups)                        50           450          500
Spare parts for diesel groups at Varreux (4 S1D groups
for 4 years, 3 AA groups for 4 years) and at Carrefour
(3 AA groups for 2 years)                                                          -          4,120        4,120
Spare parts for najor overhaul of Peligre hydro plant                               -         2,100        2,100
Mlscellaneous auxiliary equipment                                                   -           200           200
Technical assistance for the operation and mintenance
of Varreux and Carrefour (9 man-years)                                             90           900           990
Sub-total Generation. -Iprovement                                                140          7,770        7,910
3.  CmpletpCono  the DistributLon
twrk Rovafon for Port-au-Prince                                                     800         4,500         5.300
4. Consulting Services:
Engineering and supervision for
Carrefour expansion and dts'ribution                                             200          1,200        1,400
Design and specIfications for a new hydroelectric project
on the Artibonite river, including transmission line                              350         1,900        2,250
Adninistrative and general consulting services                                     s0           720           8OO
Sub-total Consulting Services                                                     630         3,820        4,450
5. Training
Training of EdH personnel                                                         50            200           250
6. Total Base Cost (Dec. 1983 prices)                                                 2,470        23,840        26,310
7. Physical Contingency (102 of base)                                                   247         2,384         2,631
8. Price Contingency b/
Carrefour expansion                                                              207         1,325         1,532
Generation improvement                                                            22         1,286         ',308
Distribution                                                                     266         1,055         1,321
Consulting services and training                                                 103           575          678
Sub-total price contingency                                                      598         4,241        4,839
9. Total EdH's Project Cost                                                          3,315        30,465        33,780
S. Goverteent's Project
Municipal finances study for Port-eu-Prince                                         75           425           500
C. Total Project Cost                                                                3,390       i3089          34,280
Notes:
e/ Building to house the new units and fuel supply installations vere constructed as part of
the Third Power Project.
bJ Indices for price escalation in percent:
1984     1985     1986      1987    1988
Local Costs                   10.0     10.0     10.0      10.0   10.0
Foreign Costa                  3.5      8.0      9.0       9.0     9.0
ia  $OA



- 52-                                               ANNEX 6
HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI - EdH
FOURTIL POWER PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Total       Foreign Cost
Cost          Financing      Procurement       Bid         Contract    Completion
Project Component                       US$ MSillion     _ by,             ethod        Irtvitation    Award          Date
1. Carrefour Diesel Plant Expansion
Fabricatiou, erection and testirg
of two 7.8 MW units including
Step-up substation                          10.1             CCCE         Other            3/84          7/84         4/86
2, Generation Improvement Plan
Cooling tower for Varreux Diesel
Power Plant                                  0.5              IDA         Other            3/85         4/85         12/85
Spare parts for Varreux and Carrefour
Diesel Power Plants:
Package No. 1                           1.6              IDA         Other            3/85         6/85         10/85 it
Package No. 2                           1.5              IDA         Other            9/85        12/85          6/86 1/
Package No. 3                           2.4              IDA         Other           12/85         2/86         10/86 1/
Spare parts for Peligre Hydro-plant          2.5             IDA          Other            2185         4/85         11/86
Miscellaneous Auxiliary Equipment            0.3              IDA         Other           11/85          1/86         1/87
3. Distribution Network Port-au-Prince
Equipment aud Materials                      3.3              IDA          ICB             6/85          9/85         6/86
Construction Contract                        4.0              IDA          ICB             4/85         8/85         12/87
4. Consultants
Technical assistance for operation and
maintenance of Varreux and Carrefour         1.3              IDA         Other           11/84          1/85         1/88
Carrefour expansion: design & snpervLsion   0.7               IDA         Other           11/83          1/84         4/86
Distribution: design 6 supervision           0.8              IDA         Other            1/85          3/85         6/87
New hydro-project: final design              3.0              IDA         Other            5/85          7/85        12/86
Administrative and financing consultant       1.0            IDA          Other           10/84         12/84         2/86
Other consulting services                    0.5            IDA           Other                                       2/86
5. Training                                     0.3             IDA          Other                                       6/87
6. Municipal finances study                      0.5            IDA           Other          11/84          3/85         6/86
1/ Completion of delivery of spare parts, to be used by EdH until June 1989.
October 25. 1984



53 -
ANNEX 7
HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'BAITI - EdR
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Credit Disbursement Schedule
(Million US Dollars)
Assumptions
Credit Signing            January   1985
Effective Date           March       1985
Closing Date              June       1989
IDA Fiscal Year               Disbursement           Cumulative
and Semester                 During Semester        Disbursement       Percentage
1985
June 30, 1985                       1.3                   1.3               6
1986
December 31, 1985                   4.9                   6.2              28
June 30, 1986                      6.8                   13.0              59
1987
December 31, 1986                  4.0                   17.0              77
June 30, 1987                      1.6                   18.6             84
1988
December 31, 1987                   1.3                  19.9              90
Ja'sne 30, 1988                    1.3                   21.2              96
1989
December 31, 1988                  0.7                   21.9             99
June 30, 1989                      0.2                   22.1            100
October 12, 1984



- 54 -
ANNEX 8
HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI - EdH
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Contents of Project File
.  Programme de Developpement 1983-1995.   Zone Metropolitaine de
Port-au-Prince, 4 Volumes, September 1983
Les Consultants HQI-LGL-LMBDS - Canada
2. Quarterly Progress Reports, June 30, 1983
Second and Third Power Projects
3.  Normes de Distribution - Edi. HQI, June 1983
4.  Programme d'Equipement 1983-1987 - Reseaa de Distribution.
Zone Metropolitaine de Port-au-Prince. HQI, January 1983
5. Installation de Condensatsurs sur le Reseau 12.47 kV en Port-au-Prince
EdH, September 1982
6. Programme de Repression de Vols d'Electricite.
Price Waterhouse, September 1983
7.  Electrification - Haiti - Rapport Avant-Projet (CIDA).
Belt, February, 1981
8. Dimensionnement des Centrales des Rivieres Artibonite et Guayamouc.
HQI, January 1983
9.  Etude de Faisabilite - Projet Guayamouc GU-1 (Preliminaire).
HQI, December 1982
10. Ouvrages de Rehabilitation de ODVA.
B.V.King, July 1982
11. Prevision des Besoins de Main-d'Oeuvre d'Electricite d'Haiti - 1982-1987
HQI, January 1982
12. Centre de Formation et Perfectionnement Professionels - EdH.
Rapport d'Activities 1982 et 1983
13. Project Analyse des Besoins de Formation Technique da Ed'H
RQI, June 1983
14. Etude du Programme d'Assurance des Domnages da EdH
Gerard Parizean Ltee. April 1982



- 55 -
15. Etude de Prefactibilite. Centrale Hydro-Electrique Caracol.
Decon-Hydroplan, 1982
16, Etude de Prefactibilite. Centrale Hydro-Electrique Samana.
Decon-Hydroplan, 1982
17. Project d'Execution - Centrale Hydro-Electrique Saut Mathurine.
Decon-Hydroplan, 1982
18. Audited Report and Financial Stateients, September 30, 1981.
Price Waterhouse, San Juan, Puerto Rico
19. Audited Report and Financial Statements, September 30, 1982.
Price Waterhouse, San Juan, Puerto Rico
20. Bilan Pour l'ERercice L982/1983, au 31/07/83.
Electricite d'Haiti
21. Forecast Debt Statement.
IDA, October 1983
22. Selected Working Papers
Note: In addition, reference is made to Project File for the Second and Third
Power Projects.



73030                                                730
US A.           -
.       TORTUA
PORT-DE PAIX
CUBA
DOM INICAN                                                                                       /
REPUBLIC                                                                                        ' JEAN-SASEL
HAI                                                                        UMILE ST. NICOLAS0
JAMAICA                                     PUERTO05  RICO
_  .           ANSB-ROUJGE
74°30                                                 74
-19030
H  A   I T  I
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
ES      PROJECT  LOCATION
POWER PLANTS.
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
*          EXISTING
DAMS:
Ii         PLANNED
0          EXISTING
ASPHALT ROADS
GRAVEL ROADS                                                                                                   - '  -
DEPARTMENT BOUNOARIES
-. -      - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RIVERS
O         la        20        3C
KILOMETERS
JEREMEr
*p        oROSEAUX          CAYEAItrES                                                                                (.5
ISLANDAS                                                                                     -'
DAMIE -MAOE                 N 
0 HAINOULT
l M    NRAGON
SAINT                                                                                           GOAVE
ATShURIN
CAUP PESREIN          OIANICHE
CAVILLION
P.,   ps          LLO N                                  VIEUR SOURS D'AOUIN
trIo, .0,001. 00 ,0,OarSC                                                     <L                            ST LOUIS EU NOFI0
10'lb (o000O0, OW 08 x*Fel_
ObIhal .80 rP081 F f e 0
Cewo8haraCh 10. 400800000.                                                      *'  LES CAYES
I^s 0 r_. borS  Fn
0' 81 '00 djh ral or r.o
?1I 01 E Vl0  IJ01 Br.. dJrI
.,In.00 rthahet v    O010
NOebe 0001000 85-ra  °                                                                     VACNCE
ISLAND
160   ,503                                         7340                                                73230



730                                          7230                                            7                           JANUARY ?984
ISLAND
(A A/l     c r                            ,    ,                           ,' A  N                                                                   200
PORt-DE RAIX           /
I-RABEL
BLEU                                  .                -]CAP HAITIEN
/>   F                  LIMBE'                                *.)-*'-'
.    ANSEt-POUGE                                                                            .
MILO      . CARACOJ,L
&4AFUEELADE   DONDON                         j
v w~~~~DESSALINES  * 
-MAISSADE                  FINAL DSIGkOR-           S
ST. MARC iUSOROUET                   HINC 2E0_1 22 M W CAPACI             >
O- L'ARTIBON.                                              0 
Tk~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~ k                                  OMONDEt\2E   0              bc19
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
PEL_  DDAM
~~~ -   :' ';   s .        . ;                            tAIRE BALAt\_,    /  ~~~~~~~~~~             ~~LASCAF1OBAS_
C--'                  ARCA  e                                                          (  LaA                >
COMPLETION  OF DISTIBUTNTI
NETWORK  RE NOVAT ION
PORT- AU -PRINC                  ROIX Of    T Be4 >jll
LEOC    ~ ~    AREOUePETION~ VILLE                         EgNNDI10
GF1ND                   =                                 A                    :
MRGOANE
_MAR IGDT                                                    n
73e                                           77030                                          7 7



