Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15335
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1527-HA)
JANUARY 22, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
FOURTH POWER PROJECT (CREDIT 1527-HA)
Preface
This is the simplified Implementation Completion Report for the Fourth
Power Project in Haiti for which Credit 1527-HA in the amount of SDR2 1.8
million was approved on November 20, 1984, and made effective on February 6,
1985.
A simplified ICR has been adopted for this project because an ICR was
not prepared soon after the closing date, June 30, 1990, and the September 1991
coup d'etat in Haiti and subsequent falling into arrears disrupted established
agreements with the Association and prevented the Bank from doing any business
with Haiti until December 1994 when the suspension of disbursements was lifted.
This left the project's ICR on hold for more than three years. Given the
considerable time elapsed, knowledge of the situation at the time of the project
closing is incomplete and Electricit6 d' Haiti (EdH, the implementing agency)
staff, consultants and contractors involved in the project implementation are no
longer available for comments. As by BP 15.55, the simplified ICR is limited to a
critical assessment of project implementation based on supervision reports,
correspondence between the Association and the Borrower and the executing
agency, and correspondence within the Association.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1990, one year after the original
closing date. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on
August 15, 1990. Cofinancing for the project was provided by Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) in the amount of US$8.9 million equivalent
to acquire two new 7.8 MW diesel generating units.
The SICR was prepared by Carlos F. Mlena, consultant of the
Infrastructure Operations Division of the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office and reviewed by Marcelo Osorio and Esperanza Miranda,
LA2rN.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- 1 -
HAITI
FOURTH POWER PROJECT (CREDIT 1527-HA)
Credit 1527-HA
A.    Project Objectives
1.    The project objectives were principally to increase generating capacity to
meet the growing electricity demand by improving the performance of two diesel
plants and one hydro plant, to complete the renovation of the Port-au-Prince
distribution network to increase service reliability and decrease energy losses, and
to strengthen the national power utility (Electricite d'Haiti - EdH) as an
institution. It also included preparation of final design and bidding documents for
a new hydroelectric project in the Artibonite river basin and a review of the
municipal finances of Port-au-Prince.
2.    To achieve these objectives the project comprised: acquisition of two new
medium-speed diesel generating units of 7.8 MW each for the existing Carrefour
plant and equipment for three plants (two diesel and one hydro); work to
complete the renovation of the Port-au-Prince distribution network; and
consulting services.
3.    To support the energy loss reduction efforts, a special provision was
included in the Project Agreement, committing EdH to reduce its energy losses
by specific amounts during project execution and to maintain them below a
maximum level (17%) from September 30, 1988 onward.
4.    The major objectives were well selected in the context of the utility's
performance at appraisal. Although the appraisal mentions EdH's shortages in
managerial and administrative skills, it does not assess them, but to overcome
these stated weaknesses the project does provide for training and fellowships,
and requires assurances from the Government for EdH's continued adequate
management and independence from the former's undue influence. With these
provisions and without further analysis EdH's performance was expected to
improve.
5.    Reduction of system losses, which severely affected EdH's performance
and totaled at appraisal 30.4% (equivalent to 21.0 MW, or 1.5 times the new
generating capacity of 15.3 MW acquired under the credit), was not adequately
assessed. Energy losses due to inefficient distribution facilities were addressed by
the Association, beginning with the Second Power Project of May 1979,
continued with the Third Power Project of 1982 and completed with the Fourth
Power Project. However, the problem of unaccounted losses, which were half of
the total, and due principally to energy thefts, was not analyzed in depth.



- 2 -
Without such an assessment from which to derive a comprehensive program to
combat these losses, their expected drastic reduction was unrealistic.
6.    Preparation of plans for a new hydro plant was a sound objective since
this renewable energy source would complement efforts to reduce the cost of
imported fuel which, at appraisal, represented 55% of operating expenses.
However, the study on municipal finances of Port-au-Prince, which was
motivated by Government's proposal to apply a municipal surcharge to electricity
tariffs, should not have been a project component. Improvement of municipal
finances could have been a condition in the processing of the credit. In the end,
the study was not performed and the link never occurred.
7.    The project, as designed, was within the management capacity of the
borrower and EdH, except in the matter of reducing energy thefts which fell in
the realm of civic and institutional discipline. The Government did not endorse a
program to reduce these thefts through appropriate legislation and corresponding
enforcement, and EdH did not provide the required management.
B.    Implementation Experience and Results
8.    The project was partially successful in achieving its major objectives since
the new generating capacity was in service on schedule, the renovation of the
distribution network was completed, plans for a future hydro project were
finalized, EdH received sound support from its consultants, and its staff benefited
from the training financed by the credit. Nevertheless, EdH's institutional
performance deteriorated from weak management and poor finances due
principally to arrears in service payments and energy losses which instead of
dropping to 17%, as expected, increased to 3 5% and EdH's rate of return on
revalued assets was 2% instead of the agreed 8%.
9.    The credit was amended twice to facilitate full utilization of proceeds in
an expanded project scope permitted by increased dollar amounts from higher
exchange rates of SDR's and French Francs. This required postponement of the
closing date by one year. The following tables compare project cost and
financing at appraisal and after project completion.



- 3 -
PROJECT COSTS
SAR                       Actual
Local.  Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total    Diff(%)
US million
Carrefour diesel plant            0.9      7.5      8.4      1.2     11.4      12.6       50.0
Generation improvement            0.1      7.8      7.9      1.5     14.2      15.7       98.7
Distribution network              0.8      4.5      5.3      2.5      7.7      10.2       92.5
Consulting services and training  0.7      4.0      4.7      1.6      4.7       6.3       34.0
Total base cost                   2.5     23.8     26.3      6.8     38.0      44.8       70.3
Physical contingencies            0.2      2.4      2.6        -        -         -          -
Price contingencies               0.6      4.3      4.9                                        l
Municipal finances study          0.1      0.4      0.5      ----     ----      ----
Total project cost                3.4     30.9     34.3      6.8     38.0      44.8       30.6
I     -  ~~~SAR  -         1      =       ctual
Local    Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign      Total
Finaniciig Plan
IDA credit                0.1      22.0      22.1 a"    0.1       26.6       26.7b/
CCCE credit               -        8.9        8.9a      -         11.4       11.4h,
EdH                       3.3     ----        3.3       6.7       _          6.7
3.4      30.9      34.3      6.8        38.0      44.8
ai Equivalent at appraisal to SDR's and French Francs.
h: E.quivalent at closing to SDR's arid French Francs.
10.     Achievement of the objectives to increase generating capacity and
improve performance of the Port-au-Prince distribution network was the result of
effective procurement of goods and services and sound execution of the
corresponding installations through successful supervision by EdH staff with
good assistance from its consultants. The failure in achieving a reduction in
unaccounted energy losses was for lack of an effective program to combat them
at the time when existing legislation and Government actions against clandestine
service connections were inadequate and EdH had poor monitoring of billings
and collections. Energy losses and arrears from payment of electricity were the
main causes of EdH's very poor financial performance. In spite of these
important shortcomings, the project's outcome can be judged to be partially
satisfactory since most of the project's investment objectives were achieved.
However, in view of the limited institutional progress, one would have to judge
the project's sustainability as unsatisfactory.
11.     The Association performed nine supervision missions during the four-year
project execution period and was constantly concerned with the deteriorating
managerial and financial performance of EdH. Although, the Association could
not prevent appointment of ineffective managers, legal provisions did exist for
rate of return and reduction in energy losses, and the Association failed to take
effective action in these matters. The perennial defaults in achieving the required



- 4 -
rate of return were not addressed by the Association and the failure to reduce
energy losses was met by only limited notification alerts to the Borrower and
EdH and delays in processing the Fifth Power Project.
C.    Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   The project achieved its investment, but it did not achieve its institutional
objectives. While overall performance can be judged to be partially satisfactory,
given the major institutional shortcomings, the project is not likely to be
sustainable.
13.   The subsequent Fifth Power Project approved in June 1989 also intended
to improve EdH's performance and reduce non-technical energy losses, but also
without introducing effective changes in the approach used in the previous
project to achieve it.
14.   When project objectives depend critically on the performance of public
institutions, they should be defined on the basis of comprehensive assessments of
all the major social, political, institutional and economic factors involved. This
was not done in the appraisal of the Fourth Power Project.












I MAGI NG
F-5.port No:     1533 5
Type: ICFR



