Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                        |       &  't
Report No. P-3722-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 21.8 MILLION (US$22.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A FOURTH POWER PROJECT
October 26, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit   =   Gourde (G)
G 1.00          =   US$0.20
G 5.00           =   US$1.00
G 1. million         US$200,000
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 kilovolt (kV)             =      1,000 volts (V)
1 kilowatt (kW)             =     1,000 watts (W)
1 megawatt (MW)             =      1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)       =     1,000 watt-hours (Wh)
1 gigawatt-hour (GWh)       =     1,000 megawatt-hours (MWh)
1 megavolt-ampere (:MVA)    =     1,000 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)
1 kilometer (km)            =     0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =       0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE      =    Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique
(France)
CIDA           Canadian International Development
Agency
EdH             Electricite d'Haiti
FAC       =    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
HQI            Hydro Quebec International
IDB       =    Inter-American Development Bank
KfW       =    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(Federal Republic of Germany)
ODVA            L'Organisme de Developpement
de la Vallee d'Artibonite
TELECO    =    Telecommunications d'Haiti
TELEHAITI =    Television d'Haiti
UNDP      =    United Nations Development Programs
USAID     =    United States Agency for International
Development
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Haiti
Beneficiary:           Electricite d'Haiti (EdH) and the Ministry of Finance.
Amount:                SDR 21.8 million (US$22.1 million equivalent) from
IDA.
Terms:                 Standard.
On-lending Terms:      The amount of SDR 21.3 million from proceeds of the
credit would be on-lent by the Government to EdH for a
period of 20 years, including four years of grace, at
an interest rate of 9.89 percent per annum. Interest
during construction would be capitalized. EdH would
assume the foreign exchange risk.
Co-Financing:          Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE),
FF 72 million, to be lent to the Government of Haiti
for on-lending to EdH.
Project                The project would help to further develop the energy
Description:         sector of Haiti through (i) the expansion of the
existing Carrefour diesel power station at Port-au-
Prince with two diesel-electric units (2 x 7.8 MW);
(ii) the implementation of a program to improve the
generation capacity of the three existing power
plants; (iii) the completion of the rehabilitation of
the distribution network at Port-au-Prince; (iv) the
preparation of detailed engineering design for a
hydroelectric project in the Artibonite river basin;
(v) the provision of consulting services for the
management and operation of EdH, as well as project
implementation and operation; (vi) the provision of a
training program including fellowships; and (vii) the
provision of consulting services for the municipal
finance study of the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area.
Risks:                 No unusual risks are associated with the project.  In
order to provide required expertise, internationally
recruited consultants would assist EdH in project
implementation.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: a/                                     Local    Foreign    Total
…---- US$ million -----
Carrefour diesel plant         0.9        7.5        8.4
Generaticin improvement         0.1       7,8        7.9
Distribut.ion network          0.8        4,5        5,3
Consulting services and
training                     0,7        4.0        4.7
Total base cost                 2.5      23.8       26.3
Physical contingency           0.2        2.4        2.6
Price contingency               0.6       4.3        4.9
Total EdEI's project cost       3,3      30.5       33.8
Municipa]L finance study        0.1      .0.4        0.5
Interest during construction  3.7         -          3.7
Total financing required        7.1      30.9       38.0
Financing Plan:                                        Local    Foreign    Total
------ US$ million ------
IDA credit                     0.1       22.0       22.1
CCCE creidit (equiv.)           -         8.9        8.9
EdH                             3e3       -          3.3
Government                      3.7       -          3.7
Total financing                 7.1      30.9       38.0
Estimated               IDA FY                     1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Disbursements:                                     ------------- US$ million -
IDA credit
Annual                     1.3    11.7      5.6      2.6     0.9
Cumulative                 1.3    13.0    18.6    21.2    22.1
Rate of Return:         11 percent based on present and projected tariffs.
Map:                    No. IBRD 17956
a/ Excludes taxes and duties from which this project is exempt.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 21.8 MILLION (US$22.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT) TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI FOR A FOURTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
development credit of SDR 21.8 million (US$22.1 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the Republic of Haiti, to help finance a Fourth Power
Project. The Government would on-lend the proceeds of the credit to
Electricite d'Haiti (EdH) at an annual interest rate of 9.89 percent for a
period of 20 years, including four years of grace. The CCCE would provide a
loan of FF 72 million; FF 48 million for a period of 15 years including five
years of grace and at five percent annual interest and FF 24 million for a
period of 30 years including ten years of grace and at 1.5 percent annual
interest during the grace period and two percent for the rest of the period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last "Economic Memorandum on Haiti" (No. 3931-HA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 25, 1982. A brief report was
also circulated to the members of the Haitian Subgroup of the Caribbean Group
for Cooperation in Economic Development in February 1984. The information in
these reports has been updated and complemented with findings of recent
missions to Haiti, Relevant social and economic data are presented in Annex
I. A mission to prepare a new economic report is planned for early 1985.
3.        Since 1970, Haiti has achieved a considerable improvement in its
economic, social and financial performance compared to the previous decade.
GNP per capita, at US$300 in 1982, was nearly 15 percent higher, in real
terms, than in 1970; during the 1960s, real per capita income had declined
significantly. Substantial public investments in health and education since
1970 have also paid off: the infant mortality rate fell by 20 percent and the
relative proportion of children in primary school increased by 30 percent.
4.        Thanks to substantial public investment, the extent and quality of
the economic infrastructure is incomparably better than in 1970. At that
time, there were only a few kilometers of paved highway outside
Port-au-Prince. Electricity and telephone services outside the capital city
were precarious. Haitian institutions were extremely weak and managerial
talent virtually nonexistent. Today, most provincial centers are connected
by well maintained all-weather highways. Telephone services are available to
twelve provincial towns and many rural areas, and international calls are
promptly placed. The state electricity company is a relatively strong
autonomous institution. Haitian ports are greatly improved and well run by a
new port authority. Better assistance to Haitian farmers is channelled
through regional development organizations. In the schools, an important
curricular revision should result in Haitian primary students learning in
Creole, their mother tongue. While these activities have been supported by



- 2 -
bilateral and multilateral aid agencies, many trained and able Haitians also
have returned from abroad, and invested not only their savings in the nascent
assembly industry, but also their talents in private and public
administration.
5.        Public finances also improved substantially.  Previously, Haitian
public finances were not designed for development management. A significant
proportion of tax revenue financed unbudgeted and unreported activities. The
remaining fiscal system was a p:Lethora of earmarked taxes and special
accounts, while overlapping responsibilities between the Central Bank and the
Finance Ministry caused confusion in both the formulation and implementation
of policy. During the late 1970s, a major fiscal reform was executed with
the technical support of the IMF. All tax revenues were integrated into the
budget while spending authority and tax collection were consolidated in the
Ministry of Finance. Numerous special accounts maintained at the Central
Bank were closed. Audit practices were applied to all decentralized
agencies. Conc rrently, the finaancial system was rationalized, broadened,
and put under the control of a reformed Central Bank. Major new ministries
and government departments were created to manage sectoral policies and
programs.  Haiti now.has a Planning Ministry and publishes a yearly public
investment biudget as well as multi-year plans.  Annual meetings of aid donors
and Haitian officials review both technical and coordination issues arising
from this de'velopment program.
6.        Much remains to be done, however,  Haiti still has the lowest per
capita income in the Western Hemiisphere; its poverty indicators such as
infant mortality, average life expectancy, nutrition and sanitation standards
(malnutrition and gastro-enteric diseases account for nearly half the deaths)
are thes worst: in the Region. Extreme rural poverty, dense population,
pressure on agricultural land, and a barely nascent urban development, have
led to emigration from the country. This has helped to slow population
growth to 1.7 percent per annum. An IDA population, health and nutrition
survey concluded that Haiti's absorptive capacity in population programs had
been reached partly through the considerable support of health and family
planning activities by private voluntary organizations.  Ironically, however,
success in improving social infrastructure and health conditions may
aggravate the already unfavorable ratio of resources to population.  This
fundamental issue can only be ad.dressed by a long-term strategy to seek new
sources of growth and employment in the urban sectors. Even the relatively
impressive growth performance of the 1970s was subject to sharp cyclical
fluctuations, refl-ecting the influence of weather and external markets on the
overwhelmingly important rural sector,
7=        In 1981, ten years of relatively rapid growth came to an end as the
world recession struck Haiti. Its effects were compounded by a poor coffee
crop (coffee accounts for about half total export earnings). Falling
international commodity prices and sluggish US demand for assembly industry
producits also depressed export income. Consequently, tax revenues fell
despite [improvements in tax administation. However, the public sector's
curreni: and capital outlays continued to expand, and the overall public
sector deficit rose to 9,8 percent of GDP compared to 5.3 percent in 1980 and
four percent in 1979. The demand pr-essures emanating from the public sector
spilled over into imports leading to a balance of payments deficit equivalent
to 3.7 percent of GDP.



8.        The Government initially responded well to this critica.
situation.  In 1982, with the collaboration of the IMF, a recovery proDgram
was prepared based on a return to fiscal discipline. In excecuting this
program, the far reaching reforms of 1979 served the authorities well.
Expenditures were sharply reduced and tax collections strengthened through
new revenue measures, most importantly the introduction of a seven percent
general sales tax in November 1982 which replaced many previously existing
taxes. As a result of these measures, the financial situation improved
substantially. Public sector savings were restored to just under three
percent of GDP in 1983, the public sector deficit fell to 5.9 percent of GDP
and the current account balance of payments deficit fell by about 20
percent. These successes encouraged the IMF and the Government to negotiate
a new Stand-By Arrangement for 1984 and 1985 which was approved by the IMF
Board in November 1983. While the initial performance was as expected,
increased expenditures since June 1984 and a revenue shortfall caused some
recent deviations from the program. It is expected that these will be
corrected by December and that drawings from the IMF will resume in 1985.
9.        The economic recovery in the United States--Haiti's major export
market--has restimulated confidence in Haiti's business community. By
mid-1984, arrears in foreign exchange payments had virtually disappeared.
The recovery has not, however, been evenly spread. While export-oriented
industries have expanded again, and the 1982-83 coffee crop was good,
agricultural production as a whole is estimated to have stagnated due to
adverse weather conditions. Tourism has dropped drastically. Overall, real
output is estimated to have grown by no more than one percent in 1983.
10.       Sustained income growth in Haiti depends critically upon increasing
productivity in agriculture which provides 65 percent of all jobs but only 35
percent of GDP. The rapid disappearance of forests and the resulting soil
erosion are reducing the availability of wood, the prime source of energy,
and leading to a shrinkage of productive land.  In an effort to halt these
trends, the Government has recently initiated erosion control and forestry
programs. It also has instituted programs to introduce improved grain
varieties, rehabilitate coffee plantations, restore the major irrigated
systems and develop agro-industries. In order to assist the authorities in
further developing sectoral priorities, the Bank recently organized a mission
which is preparing a detailed sector review.
11.       Since 1970, manufacturing industries, construction and public
utilities have emerged as the most consistently dynamic activities with
annual growth rates of seven percent, 14 percent and nine percent
respectively. Manufacturing owes much of its buoyancy to the export
processing industries which have become a major employer in the
Port-au-Prince area.  Some are assembly activities, using imported materials,
while others are artisanal enterprises processing local materials. During
the 1970s, the export revenues of these activities grew at annual rates of 34
percent and 23 percent respectively. By 1981, there were 40,000 people
employed in the assembly industries alone, and probably a further 20,000 in
the artisanal activities. In the longer term, this sector could provide the
most promising solution to the chronic labor surplus in the rural areas. It
is still, however, subject to sharp fluctuations reflecting the level of
economic activity in the principal external markets. Its development would



.-4-
also depend upon Haiti's capacity to continue improving the basic
infrastructure and urban services particularly in the power sector.
12.       Much of the investment for export-oriented manufacturing comes from
abroad; indeed for the economy as a whole, foreign capital is essential to
supplement domestic resources. Low income levels hamper the mobilization
of domestic savings for investment: between 1980 and 1982, gross domestic
savings were only 1.6 percent of GDP. In the public sector, foreign
assistance finances some two-thirds of investment. The continuing high
proportion of grants and concessionary loans extended to Haiti has helped the
country maintain its debt-service ratio at an estimated 5.3 percent for 1983.
13.       Because its capacity to generate adequate levels of savings is
limited, Haiti will continue relying heavily on foreign savings to finance a
high proportion of the costs of carefully selected development and
institution building projects. Moreover, such external assistance should
continue being extended on very concessionary terms in view of the country's
low income level and increasing dependence on imported energy. But the
terms, size and timing of the external assistance will clearly depend on
Haiti persisting with its own efforts in exercising fiscal and monetary
prudence, in mobilizing domestic resources and putting them to good use.
14.       The Association and the IMF are closely involved in Haiti's efforts
to imnprove fiscal performance and economic management in general. The
Association, at the request of the Haitian Authorities, established a
Subg.^oup within the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development.
IDA :is also extending assistance to the authorities in the preparation of
longer term plans to mobilize the country's scarce resources for economic
deve:Lopment, including the priorities of public investments, identification
of bottlenecks in project execution and, more generally, institution building
efforts.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.       Since 1956, the year the Bank Group began its operations in Haiti,
IDA has extended 19 credits and IFC has made one investment (US$1.5 million)
for an integrated poultry project.  As of September 30, 1984, the total of
credits outstanding was US$211.3 million, of which US$60.9 million were
undisbursed.  Annex II includes a summary statement of Bank Group operations
in Haiti. The Association has financed six transport projects mainly serving
the Northern region; three power projects helping to increase the country's
electricity generation and distribution capacity; three education projects
emphasizing primary school construction and qualitative improvements at the
primary level; one water supply project for provincial towns; two rural
development projects in the Northern region; one agricultural rehabilitation
proje!ct designed to help compensate damages caused by a severe hurricane; one
port development project improving international port facilities of
Port-au-Prince and small coastal port installations all around the country;
one industrial credit facility; one pilot forestry project; and an urban
development project, including sites and services schemes in three cities and
the upgrading of the Port-au-Prince central market.



- 5 -
16.       Overall, project implementation and disb,.rsement performance are
satisfactory.  However, on several occasions, lack o;  ominterpart funds has
delayed disbursements. The estatblishment of working EuLw1s in recent projects
has brought improvement in this respect. Nevertheless, the Association is
carefully monitoring the absorptive capacity of the country for externally
*       assisted development investments.  The Government of Haiti has requested the
major external aid agencies to finance temporarily a larger share of local
costs of projects. Should the major agencies agree to the Haitian request, a
larger number of high priority projects could be continued without delays or
reductions, or started as planned.
17.       Many public and private aid agencies are active in Haiti.  Among
the most important are the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID), the French Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), the German Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW),
and the technical assistance agencies of Germany and France.
18.       IDB retains a diverse program in Haiti both regionally and
sectorally. In addition to transportation, agriculture and energy, projects
in health, education, industry, urban improvement, water supply, and port
improvement are now being implemented or planned. The USAID program is
largely implemented in collaboration with private volunteer groups and is
concentrating on agricultural production, improving rural infrastructure,
conservation and restoration of natural resources, health care and the
strengthening of public and private development institutions. The sale of
foodstuffs to the Government, supported with long term, low interest credits,
is also important. CIDA is committed to supporting the institutional
development of public and private organizations within Haiti. This objective
is reflected in training and technical assistance projects now underway with
the 'Ministries of Education and Agriculture and the National Institute of
Administration.
19.       Germany is providing technical and financial assistance for urban
development in Port-au-Prince, for a rural development project in the
Gonaives Plain, and for power sector development all over the country.
Together with France, Germany has been providing substantial technical
assistance for the First and the Second IDA Rural Development Projects in the
Northern region. Likewise, the co-financing of IDA water supply is included
in the German program. France has financed road construction and currently
sponsors two integrated rural development projects, educational planning, and
research, a multitude of training programs and a maritime lighting project.
France also is financing components of IDA's Third Power and pilot Forestry
Development projects and is expected to co-finance the proposed power
project.
IDA Strategy
20.      Originally, Bank Group lending to Haiti was heavily supporting
infrastructure improvement (power, transport) but as Government priorities
changed, soc-ial sector investments (education, urban development), rural
development and reforestation gained in importance. IDA's present lending



program reflects the priorities of the national development plans and
attempts to establish a balance between the continued need for infrastructure
investments benefitting export-oriented industries as well as rural and urban
households and for investments in directly productive activities in
agriculture and industrial sectors. As in the past, IDA projects will
include substantial institution-building components and will be coordinated
with the current and future programs of other bilateral and multilateral
assistance agencies. Co-financing of IDA projects by these agencies is very
active and appears to have a potential for increase.
21.      Under the current IDA program, the ongoing Pilot Forestry Project
provides for the preparation of a second large-scale erosion
control/reforestation project which will reduce the loss of valuable top soil
and improve the supply situation for firewood. In the context of the
electric power program, the proposed project would support an increase of the
thermal generation capacity, through the expansion of the Carrefour plant and
the imiprovement and renovation of the existing power plants and distribution
network.  High priority investments needed in the water supply sector have
recently been brought to the attention of IDA by Government, and in the
education sector, primary and vocational education would require further IDA
involvement.
22.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's external debt disbursed and
outstanding came to 26 percent as of September 30, 1983. This seems high
only because grants constitute a very large share of the external assistance
Haiti has received. The Bank Group's share of external public debt service
was about 5 percent.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Resources
23.       Haiti's indigenous energy resources are limited.  The remaining
undev7e-Loped hydro-potential amounts to about 90 MW only (of which 90 percent
is concentrated in two sites on the Artibonite river) and petroleum deposits
at this moment are not known to exist. Small sub-economic lignite deposits
have been identified but it is doubtful whether they can be used for power
generation. Imported fuel, therefore, is presently used for 50 percent of
total electricity generation of 369 GWh (1983), and thermal power plants will
remain the mainstay of the Haitian power sector.
24.       Charcoal is extensively used for domestic and small industrial
purposes. A Bank energy assessment mission estimated that in 1982 wood
accounted for 76 percent of Haiti's gross energy use, bagasse for five
percent, petroleum for 15 percent and hydropower for 14 percent.  Due to the
high use of wood, much of the country has been denuded of trees; erosion is
progressing rapidly and considerable areas of once fertile land have been
stripped of soil.



25.       Various public institutions in Haiti are at present engaged in
evaluating solar energy technologies, windpower and methanol production from
sweet sorghum.  Although some of these technologies may not be developed
economically at the present time, they could constitute an important source
of energy in the future.
Power Sector and its Organization
26.       Electrification is limited in Haiti reflecting the low economic
level of the country and the poverty of its population. In 1983, only nine
percent of the total population had access to electricity; in Port-au-Prince
43 percent and in the provinces and rural sector only three percent. Power
generation is highest in Port-au-Prince with about 410 kWh per capita
annually, which for the whole population averages only about 70 kWh.
Industries which are mainly in and around Port-au-Prince consume about 45
percent of sales, commerce five percent, public institutions 12 percent, and
residential consumption is about 38 percent. Since 1972, electricity
consumption in Port-au-Prince grew at an average annual rate of 13 percent
and is projected to grow at nine percent through 1988, while in the rural
areas, it is expected to grow at 10.5 percent.
27.       Electricite d'Haiti.  Electricite d'Haiti (EdH), an autonomous
government agency created in 1971, is the sole entity responsible for power
supply in Haiti. Power sector policies are set by the President of its
Board, the President of the Republic, who delegates his authority to the
Minister of Public Works, Communications and Transport. There is no separate
regulatory body for the sector, and tariffs are approved by EdH's Board.
EdH's installed hydropower capacity is 54.8 MW and thermal capacity amounts
to 91.8 MW, captive plant capacity is 40 MW, all thermal type.
28.       EdH employs about 1,250 people of which 370 are stationed at
locations outside Port-au-Prince. Staff quality is not fully satisfactory
and there is a shortage of managerial, technical, and administrative skills.
Under the first IDA Power Project, EdH created a training unit which expanded
into a center under the Second and Third Power Projects. The Fonds d'Aide et
de Cooperation (FAC) and the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) also
provided assistance. With five full time instructors, the Center offers
courses and seminars on varied subjects such as linemen techniques, metering,
welding, diesel operation and mechanics, hydro-plant operation, fitting,
first aid, accounting, administrative and control techniques, secretarial
techniques, alphabetization, etc.  In the last four years 300 employees
received training at the center. In addition to the in-house training, the
center sent 35 professionals to seminars and courses abroad.  Through the
First and Second Power projects, IDA helped to train approximately 50 percent
of EdH professionals through fellowships abroad, and approximately 50 percent
of EdH personnel through in-house training and recycling. Results were
satisfactory in the financial and administration areas where personnel were
trained in modern organizational methods and data handling equipment. In the
technical area, improvements have been achieved in systems planning and
technical studies, but a lot remains to be done in engineering and design,
construction supervision and operations and maintenance. Under the Third



- 8 -
Power Project another ten percent of the engineers and ten percent of the
technicians will be trained.
29.       EdH's Financial Situation.   Prior to 1975, EdH's financial
performance had been very weak, mostly because of inadequate tariff levels,
high energy losses, non-payment of public electricity consumption, and
excessive reliance on short-term debt financing. However, starting in 1976,
and particularly since 1978, EdH finances improved gradually. Its average
revenue increased by about 40 percent between 1980 and 1982. In this period,
the rates of return on revalued assets were around 5.7 percent, lower than
the targeted eight percent, but adequate to meet EdH's cash requirements.
Due co a severe drought that affected the generation of hydropower, a
consltant increase in electricity losses and lower demand because of the
economic recession, earnings in 1983 dropped severely, resulting in a rate of
return of zero percent. The new financial forecast includes provisions to
meet financial shortfalls in case of drought.
30.       EdH's financial situation is expected to be satisfactory through
FY88, The forecast rate of return on the average current net value of fixed
assets in operation would not be less than five percent in FY85 and FY86,
seveni percent in FY87 and eight percent in FY88 and thereafter (Section 4.03
of the draft Project Agreement). During the period, EdH would be able to
meet its financial obligations and generate internally approximately 27
percent of the financing of its construction program and working capital
needs. However, in order to maintain a sound financial performance during
the execution of the project, the Government and EdH would not undertake any
investments in the power sector whose total cost would exceed the equivalent
of one percent of the current net value of EdH's fixed assets in operation,
with the exception of those reviewed by the Association during appraisal.
The aggregate amount of unbudgeted village and rural electrification
investments would be limited in any year to 0.2 percent of such net value
(Section 4.01(a) of the draft ])evelopment Credit Agreement and Section
4.06(a) of the draft Project Agreement). Moreover, EdH: (a) would not incur
long-term debt without the Association's previous consent unless internal
cash generation covers maximum future debt service by 1.5 times (Section
4.05(a) of the draft Project Agreement); (b) would not increase short-term
debt exceeding one sixth of its annual cash operating, maintenance, and
administrative expenses (Section 4.05(b) of the draft Project Agreement);
and (c) would maintain its liquid assets in an interest-bearing account or in
interest-bearing investments (Section 4.05 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement and Section 4.08 of the draft Project Agreement). The ratio
between the internal cash generation and debt service shall be calculated
using a reasonable forecast for the internal cash generation instead of
histo:rical data.
31.       EdH's tariff structure, designed with the assistance of consultants
under previous projects, is based on the principle of long-run marginal
costing. The tariff includes a monthly fuel surcharge, adjusted quarterly
and incorporated into the basic tariff at the end of each fiscal year. The
average tariff for FY83 was US cents 12,8 per kWh and in FY84, 14.3 per kWh.
It has been projected to grow at ten percent per year during the period
1985-88, the same rate assumed for local inflation. This rate is in line



with what EdH achieved in recent years, and about equal to the long-run
marginal cost.
32.       The collection of current electricity bills from government
agencies and public institutions has always been a problem for EdH. As of
September 1984, the Government's arrears amounted to US$6.10 million,
equivalent to 15 months of billing. The Ministry of Finance signed an
agreement with EdH, acceptable to the Association, under which (a) the
arrears will be settled through lump sum payments of US$2.90 million in FY85,
US$2.65 million in FY86, and the balance of approximately US$0.55 million in
FY87; and (b) the Government will start to pay on time current electricity
bills, from the beginning of FY85, The Government would maintain the
financial agreement until it is fully implemented (Section 4.03(a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Finally, the Government would not
permit EdH to use its financial resources for any purpose other than to pay
the costs of its operations and investments and to service its debts (Section
4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Power Sector Strategy and Development
33.       As part of the policy of diversifying economic activities, the
encouragement of private sector investment in assembly industries and tourism
has become a cornerstone of Haiti's development strategy. In this context,
the "Long-Term Pre-Investment Study of the Power Sector", the master plan in
the development of the sector, emphasizes the expansion of electric power
generation in major urban areas, especially in Port-au-Prince. In view of
the limited hydro-potential left for development in Haiti, it prescribes an
intermittent program of increasing hydroelectric and thermal capacity, in
steps commensurate with demand projections of Port-au-Prince and the main
urban centers in the provinces. As for the rural electrification, KfW is
providing hydro-plants and small diesel groups at selected sites. A master
plan is also being prepared with the assistance of CIDA. EdH's proposed
investment program for the period of 1984-88 totals US$264.7 million.  Of
this amount, about 11 percent would be invested in rural electrification. By
the end of the period, the power generating capacity for Port-au-Prince would
increase by 60 MW from its present level of 120.4 MW and the provinces by 4
MW from a level of 26.2 MW.
34.       The main constraint to the development of the Haitian power sector
is the high cost of investments in hydroelectric systems due to the country's
topography, hydrology, and the lack of infrastructure. Variations in the
regime of the rivers require the construction of reservoirs to regulate the
flow of water. However, because of the nature of the terrain, the
construction of large reservoirs is very costly. The absence of adequate
roads contributes to the high cost of civil works. The limited number of
qualified staff also affects EdH's capacity to develop and manage the
system. This is currently being corrected through improvements in
organization and training. Nevertheless, the cost of power development will
remain high in Haiti and the Government will continue to require a
substantial amount of foreign assistance to finance it in order to accelerate
the growth of industrial activities.



- 10 -
IDA Strategy and Participation in the Power Sector
35.       Since 1976, the Association has sought to assist Haiti in the
development of its electric power sector through: (a) the formulation and
implementation of a least cost national power development plan that conforms
to the development objectives of the country; and (b) the institutional and
financial improvement of EdH. To achieve these objectives, IDA provided
three credits amounting to US$58.5 million and mobilized an additional amount
of US$24 million in co-financing and parallel financing. The development
of lHaiti's power sector has contributed to the creation of a manufacturing
secl:or that has become the most consistently dynamic economic activity in
Hail:i and is helping to absorb part of the unemployed labor force migrating
froma the countryside to the capital city. While EdH has become one of the
more efficient public enterprises in Haiti, IDA will have to provide
assistance--technical, managerial, and financial--over a long period of time
to allow EdH to meet the institutional demands and large investment
requirements of a rapidly growing sector.
36.       The First Power Project (Credit 645-HA of July 1976 for US$16.0
million) included the initial stage (1976-78) of a two-stage power
development program then covering the period 1976-83. The decision to carry
out this program in two stages arose from constraints in the availability of
both IDA and local counterpart funds and from the desire to strengthen EdH
institutionally before it undertook a larger investment project. Thus, EdH
was reorganized, its autonomy strengthened, and its technical competence
supported by technical assistance for engineering, project supervision and
staff training. The 21 MW diesel generating capacity in Port-au-Prince was
installed at a new power station (Varreux) near the industrial and commercial
center of the city, together with transmission facilities, particularly to
serve industry. Notwithstanding 20 months delay in implementation caused by
an accident affecting two smaLl generators and a major break down of the two
larger units, the project was completed satisfactorily and the Project
Performance Audit Report (Report No. 3265) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 30, 1980.
37.       The Second Power Project (Credit 895-HA for US$16.5 million and the
European Economic Community special action credit 4-HA for US$6.0 million,
both of May 1979) covered the second stage of the power develoment program
for the 1979-83 period.  The project, which received parallel CIDA financing
amounting to Can$17 million, added 23 MW capacity to the Varreux diesel
station, transmission lines and substations, renovation of Port-au-Prince
distribution system, some diesel units and related distribution networks in
the provinces and consulting services and training of EdH's staff. The
implementation of this project was also delayed by over 18 months because of
procurement controversies between EdH and the Government over an IDA financed
contract, and delays in preparing and finalizing transmission network
contract financed by CIDA. However at present it is progressing
satisfactorily and is expected to be completed by December 1984.
38.       The Third Power Project (Credit 1281-HA for SDR 23.1 million, of
August 1982, a CCCE parallel financing of FF 30 million, November 1983) which
covers the investment needs of the 1984-85 period of the develoment program,
is financing a new 23 MW diesel electric power station at Carrefour in



- 11 -
Port-au-Prince, additional renovation of the Port-au-Prince distribution
network, construction of a new head office for EdH, repair of the civLl works
at the Peligre hydroelectric power plant, a feasibility study for the
Guayamouc hydroelectric project, consulting services and training of EdH
staff. The feasibility study, now available, indicates that the Guayamouc
project would be extremely costly and suggests a comparative review of other
projects in the same basin before selecting the next investment in a
hydroelectric plant. This conclusion has been taken into consideration under
the proposed project. Other components of the Third Power Project are also
being implemented satisfactorily.  The Project is scheduled to be completed
in June 1986.
Municipal Finance
39.       Municipal government in Port-au-Prince is provided by the four
municipalities that make up the "Communaut6 Urbaine" of Port-au-Prince, with
a population of 900,000. The role of these municipalities is restricted at
present to the administration of a few urban services, such as the collection
and disposal of garbage. Staff are insufficient in number and inadequately
trained. Their financial position is precarious; more than half of their
revenues come from earmarked taxes collected by the Ministry of Finance, such
as the property tax and the licence tax on enterprises. The remainder
consists essentially of grants from the central government. In real terms,
revenues from local taxes have been falling in recent years. The results are
insufficient funds to provide for adequate urban services and maintenance of
infrastructure let alone capital investment. There are, however, several
important capital investments in Port-au-Prince which are being financed or
prepared by international and bilateral agencies: drainage (IDB), urban
development (KfW and IDA), transportation (France), and water supply (IDA and
France). In order to operate and maintain adequately these investments and
improve the delivery of basic services, it has become increasingly necessary
to strengthen urgently overall municipal management and finance. An
opportunity to improve municipal finances in Port-au-Prince has arisen during
the preparation of this project due to proposals under consideration by
Government to link municipal tax collection with electricity tariffs.  This
proposal revealed the need for a thorough review of municipal finance and of
municipal management in order to improve local tax administration in
Port-au-Prince and to assess other alternative measures for generating
municipal revenues without linking them to electricity tariffs. Therefore,
the proposed project would include a study of municipal finance in
Port-au-Prince. The study should lead to reforms in the structure of local
revenues in order to allow for improvements in the provision of urban
services.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed project was identified by IDA's supervision missions
in 1982 and 1983, was prepared by EdHl's Technical and Planning Departments,
with the assistance of consultants, and was appraised in October 1983.



- 12 -
Negotiations were held in Washington in April and September, 1984. The
Haitian delegation was headed by Mr. Jean-Philippe Prosper, Advisor to the
Minister of Finance.  The appraisal mission's report, entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report Haiti Fourth Power Project" (No, 4889-HA, dated October 25,
1984), is being distributed separately. Annex III contains a supplementary
project data sheet.
Project Objectives and Description
41.       The proposed project aims at expanding and improving generating
facilities of EdH in Port-au-Prince, completing the renovation of the
Port-au-Prince distribution network, and strengthening EdH both in the
technical and financial areas, and preparing a future hydroelectric project
on the Artibonite River. It will also include a review of municipal finances
of the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area to assist the Government in its
effort at improving urban management.
42.       The proposed project 'would include:
(a) supply and installation of two medium-speed diesel generating
groups, rated 7.8 MW each, at the new Carrefour power plant;
(b) generation improvement of existing power plants, including: (i) the
installation of a new cooling tower at the Varreux diesel electric
power plant; (ii) the installation of auxiliary equipment to
improve performance of selected plants; (iii) the purchase of a
stock of spare parts for up to four years of operation for the
Varreux and Carrefour power plants, and for the major maintenance
of the three hydro turbine-generators at the Peligre hydroelectric
plant;
(c) completion of the distribution network renovation for
Port-au-Prince, started under the Second and Third Power Projects;
(d) consulting services to cover: (i) the engineering and supervision
for parts (a) and (c) of the proposed project; (ii) other
technical, financial and administrative support to EdH including
assistance to maintain and operate part (b) of the proposed
project; (iv) the final design and preparation of bidding documents
for the hydroelectric project in the Artibonite river basin;
(e) training of EdH personnel and fellowships for studies abroad; and
(f) consulting services to review the municipal finance of
Port-au-Prince.
43.       The two groups would be installed in the space provided at the
powerhouse now under construction as part of the Third Power Project. Once
completed, the plant will have f:Lve diesel groups with a total capacity of 39
MW and would enable EdH to meet the demand growth at Port-au-Prince until
1988, by which time new generation capacity would be needed.



- 13 -
44.       The operation of the seven medium speed diesel groups at Varreux
(39 MW total) has not been as successful as expected, due partly to the lack
of experienced personnel to operate and maintain the plant, and to the
inadequate stock of spare parts. In addition, there have been technical
problems such as a deficiency in the cooling system of the first four diesel
groups installed at Varreux (First Power Project) that does not permit full
loading of the generators, and some breakdowns in the last three groups
(Second Power Project) which are being corrected by the manufacturer. The
generation improvement program under part (b) of this project would correct
the situation of the existing Varreux power plant and permit proper operation
of the new Carrefour plant. Together these plants will have a total
generation capacity of 78 MW, equivalent to 54 percent of the total installed
effective (rainy season) capacity that is projected to serve Port-au-Prince
by 1987.
45.       The turbine generators at the Peligre hydroelectric plant,
responsible for 54 percent of EdH's generation for Port-au-Prince in 1983,
are in urgent need of an already past due major ten-year maintenance
overhaul. The proposed project would provide the foreign funds required to
import the spare parts. Since the repair of the civil works at the Peligre
dam is also being financed by IDA under the Third Power Project, after
completion of the proposed project, the Peligre plant would have been totally
overhauled with the help of funds provided by the Association. As a
condition of effectiveness, EdH would sign an agreement with L'Organisme de
Developpement de la Vallee d'Artibonite (ODVA), an irrigation development
organization to regulate the use of the Artibonite river for irrigation,
flood control, and power generation in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, and prevent loss of water (Section 6.01(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.08 of the draft Project
Agreement). EdH would carry out periodic inspection of the Peligre dam and
related structures in accordance with sound engineering practices in order to
determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such
structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance, and methods of
operation (Section 3.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
46.       In order to improve the service, lower the technical losses and
eliminate the theft of electricity through illegal connections, about 75
percent of the distribution network at Port-au-Prince needs to be replaced.
This work is being partly financed by the Association under the Second and
Third Power Projects. The proposed project would provide the funds to expand
and complete the renovation of the network by 1987. EdH has formulated an
electricity loss reduction program which is satisfactory to IDA and has
started to implement it. The electricity production loss would be not more
than 26 percent by September 30, 1985, 22 percent by September 30, 1986, 19
percent by September 30, 1987, and by 1988 and thereafter to 17 percent
(Section 3.06 of the draft Project Agreement). In order to regulate the
common use of utility poles for the distribution networks, EdH has signed
agreements satisfactcry to the Association, with the telecommunication
(TELECO) and television (TELEHAITI) companies.
47.       As EdH still requires technical support, services of qualified
consultants would be contracted (140 man-months) to carry out detailed
engineering, procurement and supervision of the Carrefour extension and the



- 14 -
distribution renovation. These internationally recruited experts (108
man-months) would assist in the operation and maintenance of the Varreaux and
Carrefour power plants and the procurement of spare parts and maintenance
equipment. A management consultant (80 man-months) would continue to assist
EdH in all financial and administrative matters related to the project and to
EdH's daily operations. Finally, 200 man-months of consultant services would
be provided to compare the resualts of the feasibility studies of various
hydrcelectric plants in the Artibonite basin including that of Guayamouc
financed under the Third Power Project, and to prepare the final design and
bidding documents for the selected project.
48.       The project would cover the foreign cost of 1986-87 training
program of EdH. The program includes fellowships abroad and short in-house
courses and seminars. While efforts will be continued in the financial and
administrative areas, the training will emphasize the technical area,
particularly the engineering and design, construction supervision, and
operations and maintenance.  The technical experts who would assist EdH to
operate the Varreux and Carrefour stations would provide also on-the-job
training to supervisors, operators, and maintenance personnel for the medium
speed diesel groups (Section 3.07 of the draft Project Agreement). During
the Fourth Power Project about 75 percent of personnel and 15 percent of
profeSsional staff will be recycled or trained. The 1986-87 program and its
implementation schedule have been discussed and agreed upon during the
negotiations. The candidates for fellowships would be selected on the basis
of cr:Lteria and under terms satisfactory to the Association. EdH would
consu:Lt the Association concerning the proposed training institutions for
these candidates and make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for
the placement of such fellowship beneficiaries (Section 2,09 of the draft
Project Agreement). To ensure adequate implementation of the training
component, it will be closely monitored by the Association's Regional and
Centretl Training Units.
49.       The review of municipal finance to be carried out by consultants
(36 man--months) would consist of an assessment of the existing financial
position and future prospects oE municipal entities in Port-au-Prince. This
would involve a review of the adequacy of the present level of revenues
relative to municipal service responsibilities, pricing policies of basic
services, revenue collection system and mechanism of transfers from the
central government.  It would also examine the future revenue needs of the
municipalities, particularly those related to operation and maintenance of
capital works undertaken by other public sector entities, identify additional
revenue sources, and provide concrete proposals to strengthen accounting and
financial management systems. The Government would (a) submit the study to
the Association for its review and comments no later than June 30, 1986; (b)
prepares a plan of action based on the recommendations of such a study taking
into account comments of the Association by no later than September 30, 1986,
and (c) carry out such plan of action no later than January 31, 1987 (Section
3.03 of the draft Develoment Credit Agreement).
Projec: Execution
50.       EdH would be the beneficiary of 98 percent of the credit and would
be responsible for the implementation of the power components. The municipal



- 15 -
finance study would be carried out by the Department of Economy and Industry
in the Ministry of Finance. EdH undertakes to assure that at all times the
cerntral managerial positions would be filled by competent and experienced
persons whose qualifications are satisfactory to the Association (Section
3.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement).  The activities related to various
power projets financed by IDA, IDB, CIDA, KfW and CCCE will continue to be
coordinated by the existing Technical Coordinating Committee of EdH.
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total cost of the power project, excluding interest during
construction, is estimated at US$33.8 million, of which US$30.5 million (90
percent) would represent foreign exchange costs. The municipal finance study
is estimated to cost additional US$0.5 million (85 percent foreign cost).
With the exception of fuel, EdH is exempt from duties and taxes. Cost
estimates are based on December 1983 prices and were calculated on the basis
of EdH's experience in similar projects. Physical contingencies are ten
percent, and a price contingency has been added, assuming the following
inflation rates: local costs 1984 onwards: ten percent; foreign costs 1984:
3.5 percent; 1985: eight percent; and 1986 onwards: nine percent.
52.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 21.8 million (US$22.1 million
equivalent) would finance 58 percent of the total project cost and 71 percent
of foreign exchange cost. The CCCE would provide total loan of FF 72
million: FF 48 million for a period of 15 years including five years of grace
and at five percent annual interest, and FF 24 million for a period of 30
years including ten years of grace and at 1.5 percent annual interest during
the grace period and two percent for the rest of the period. As a condition
of effectiveness, all the conditions precedent to the first disbursement of
the CCCE Loan except for the effectiveness of IDA Agreement must be fulfilled
(Section 6.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). EdH would
provide US$3.3 million local funds.
53.       The major part of the proceeds of the Credit amounting to SDR 21.3
million (US$21.6 million equivalent) would be on-lent by the Government under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to EdH in US dollars for a period of 20 years,
including four years of grace, at an interest rate of 9.89 percent per
annum  (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).  It has
been assumed that the interest during construction, estimated at US$3.7
million, would be capitalized and added to the loan. The foreign exchange
risk would be taken by EdH.  The execution and ratification of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and EdH would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed project (Section 6.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Retroactive Financing
54.       Retroactive financing not exceeding US$0.8 million has been
accepted for consulting services for the preparation of bidding documents for
the expansion of the Carrefour diesel plant, initiated in January 1984, and
for the technical assistance services for the Varreux and Carrefour plants,
to be initiated by January 1985.



- 16 -
Procur:ement and Disbursement
55.        The following table summarizes procurement arrangements for the
proj ect.
Procurement Method    Total
ICB       Other         Cost
--US$ Million-------
IDA Financing
Materials, equipment and civil works for                   7.3         -        7.3
the distribution network renovation                       (6.0)        -       (6.0)
Spare parts for Varreaux, Carre.four and Peligre
power plants, including miscellaneous auxiliary                       8.8       8.8
equipment and a cooling tower for Varreaux                  -        (8.7)    (8.7)
Technical assistance services for power plant               -         1.3       1.3
operation and maintenance                                   -        (1.2)     (1.2)
Consulting services for the execution of                    -         2.0       2.0
the project                                                          (1.8)     (1.8)
Administrative consultants                                  -         1.0       1.0
_       (1.0)    (1.0)
Consulting services for the design of a new                 -         3.0       3.0
hydroelectric project                                       -        (2.8)     (2.8)
Trainiag and fellowships abroad                             -         0.3       0.3
(0.2)    (0.2)
Municipal finances study                                    -         0.5       0.5
-        (0.5)    (0.5)
CCCE F:Lnancing
Two diesel groups and step-up substation for the            -        10.1      10.1
Carrefour power plant expansion                             -        (8.9)     (8.9)
Total                                                      7.3       27.0      34.3
(6.0)    (25.1)   (31.1)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by the
Association and CCCE.



- 17 -
56.       All equipment, materials, and civil works financed by IDA would be
procured in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement except for
proprietary spare parts for the existing diesel groups. The consultants
financed by TDA would be hired according to the Bank Group Guidelines for the
Use of Consul'tants. For consultant services pertaining to the supervision of
civil works and administrative and financial improvement of EdH, EdH would
extend the on-gcing contract with Hydro-Quebec International, and Price
Waterhouse. The CCCE firanced diesel groups and step-up substation would be
purchased directly from Alsthcm Atlantique, the same supplier of other groups
at Carrefour to respect the standardization of equipment.
57.       There are no local manufacturers in Haiti who would claim a bid
evaluation preference in the procurement of equipment and materials.
However, local civil contractors would be given a preference of 7.5 percent
for the purpose of bid evaluation. All bidding packages over US$50,000
equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement documents.
All requests for disbursements of funds would be fully documented.
Disbursements would be made for 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost for
IDA-financed civil works, equipment, materials, consultant services, and
training including fellowships. Disbursements for the municipal finance
study would be made for 100 percent of the total cost. Disbursements for
contracts financed by CCCE would be made directly by that agency.
Economic Evaluation
58.       The proposed project is an integral part of EdH's least cost
expansion program; it includes the required investment for the period 1986-87
for the Port-au-Prince area. Since it is difficult to allocate benefits to
each component of the project, an economic evaluation of the proposed project
was not done. Instead, the internal rate of return for EdH's overall
investment program for the slice 1984-88 was computed as the discount rate
equalizing the present value of the stream of costs and benefits associated
with it. The cost stream, in 1983 constant prices, comprises the capital
cost of the development program and the incremental operation and maintenance
costs related to the incremental sales associated with the program. As a
proxy for benefits, the revenues derived from incremental sales were used,
assuming that tariffs would be adjusted as necessary to meet the financial
objectives proposed in this report.   No economic evaluation was made
utilizing shadow prices or to reflect other benefits to society and the
economy of the country, such as those derived from improvement of quality of
service to customers and availability of energy for new industries. No
attempt was made to assess consumer surplus as the willingness to pay may
exceed the existing tariffs. On these assumptions, the internal rate of
return for the program is 11 percent. This rate is equal to the opportunity
cost of capital in Haiti. A sensitivity analysis shows the rate of return to
be very sensitive to changes in electricity tariffs and sales and moderately
sensitive to changes in capital costs and fuel costs.
Project Risks
59.       Except for the possibility of delays in its implementation, the
project involves no unusual risks and has no adverse impact on the



- 18 -
environment; the risk of delays would be diminished by hiring of consultants
to assist the limited number of EdH qualified engineers in supervising
project execution.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Credit Develoment Agreement between the Republic of Haiti
and tae Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
EdH, and the recommendation of the committee provided for the Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately.
Special conditions are listed in Section III of Annex III. Additional
condition of effectiveness would be that (a) EdH would sign an agreement with
ODVA satisfactory to IDA, regulating the use of waters of Artibonite river;
(b) the Government and EdH have signed and ratified a subsidiary loan
agreement under the terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA; and (c) all
conditions precedent to the first disbursement of the CCCE loan except for
the effectiveness of IDA agreemlent must be fulfilled.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 26, 1984



- 19 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                      PagE   1  of  5
HAITI                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTID AVERAGES) /a
MOST                 (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT         MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960/b     1970/b    ESTIMATE/b    LAT. AMERICA & CAR       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
4L,&.A ! x11DSAND SQ. K14)
O CAL                               27.8       27.8          27.8
hGRICllLi,RAL                        12.4       14.5          14.0
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   100.0      110.0         300.0             2108.6                    11 l2.9
ENRGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)        29.0       29.0          55.0              995.5                     529.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   3630.0      4235.0        5201.0
URBAN POPULATION (C OF TOTAL)        15.6       19.8          26.1               66.5                      29.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               7.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                14.4
POPULATION MOMENTUM                                          1.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       130.8      152.6         183.9              35.7                       55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND            293.0      293.1         364.3              92.4                      111.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                          40.9       42.9          42.8               39.9                      45.4
15-64 YRS                          55.2       53.4          53.6              56.0                       51.7
65 AND ABOVE                        3.9        3.7           3.5               4.1                        2.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (E)
TOTAL                               1.6        1.5           1.7                2.4                       2.8
URBAN                               4.1        3.9           4.0               3.6                        5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         38.8       37.1          32.0               31.3                      47.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         19.4       16.6          19.4                8.1                      15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0        3.0           2.6                2.0                       3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)            ..         ..          16.1 /c
USERS (X OF HARRIED WOMEN)           ..         ..          19.0 7ed.         40.3
FOOD AND NURrITION
INDEX OF POOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                       104.0      100.0          85.0             114.3                       91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)       91.0       94.0          96.0              110.6                      98.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           49.0       51.0          51.0              67.3                       56.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0       18.0          18.0 /d            34.1                      17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          46.5       29.1          16.5                5.7                      18.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        44.4       48.9          54.0              64.7                       51.7
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER 7HOUS)       182.0      142.5         110.1              60.6                      102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                ..         ..           14.0 /c           65.4                      35.6
URBAN                                ..         ..          38.0 Ic            78.1                      54.1
RURAL                                ..         ..           7.0 Ic            46.2                      27.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         ..            ..               52.9
URBAN                                ..         ..            ..              67.0
RURAL                                *-        1.0            ..               24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           9230.0    11570.0        8200.0 /f         1917.7                    11948.3
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            4020.0     3080.0        2490.07T           815.8                     2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1570.0     1190.0        1240.0 /g           367.2                     986.9
URBAN                             300.0      450.0 /h      520.0 /d          411.5                      368.7
RURAL                                *-     5140.0 lb     3430.0 Id          2636.3                    4012.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         ..            ..               27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                *-        3.6           4.4 /d
URBAN                                *-        2.2           4.2 Id
RURAL                                ..        4.3           4.5 /d
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                ..        1.9
URBAN                                ..        2.0
RURAL                                ..        1.9
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        4.1           2.9 /.
URBAN                                ..         ..
RURAL                                ..         ..



- 20 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                       Page  2  of  5
HAITI                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                 (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT         MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
196oL0     197OLb     ESTIMAd;!D     LAT. AMERICA & CAR     AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
IIDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    46.0       53.0           69.0             105.4                      91.0
MALE                    50.0         ..          74.0              106.3                      90.5
FEMALE                  42.0         ..          64.0              104.5                      73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    4.0         ,,          13.0               43.2                      17.4
MALE                     5.0         ..           13.0              42.3                      23.7
FEMALE                   2.0         ,,          12.0               44.5                      14.8
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)          21.4       19.0            2.1              33.6                       5.3
PUPIL-TFACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            43.0       52.0          44.0               30.1                      38.6
SECONDARY                          13.0       18.0          23.0               16.8                      24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)              14.5       21.3           23.0              79.5                      35.6
CONSUPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           2.3        2.7           4.7               46.0                      20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          5.8       19.6           20.2             225.6                     100.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             0.5        2.6           3.2              107.2                      18,5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            10.5       18.7           6.5  f            63.5                      17.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       0.3         ..            1.2 d             2.8                       0.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          1971.,0    2102.0        2459.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   47,,6      47.0          45.6               23.2                      33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              80.0       74.2          73.5               31.5                      57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  6.4        7.1           7.2               23.9                      17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              54.3      49.6          47.3               32.2                      36.3
MALE                               58.4       54.3          52.8               49.3                      47.6
FEMALE                             50.,4      45.2          42.0               15.2                      25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             0.8        0.9            1.0               1.4                       1.4
IIICQGE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST SX OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         ..
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..         ..
LOWEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40X OF HOUSEHOLDS                                   ..                 ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                .           ,          169.0 1           288.2                     525.3
RURAL                                ,.         ..          144.0 /d          184.0                     249.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                .          .,          82.0 /d           522.8                     477.4
RURAL                                ,,         ..           73.0 7d          372.4                     186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (M)
URBAN                                ..         ..           55.0 /d
RURAL                                ..         ,.           78.0 7i
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of diata and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimat:e" between 1980 and 1982.
/c   1976; /d 1977; /e Ages 15-50; /f 1979; aL 1978; /h 1972; /i 1975.
JUNE, 1984



uuatOtS0  at5ts
pus s A,sdau.... aoQ.-       5.auqas.  dqs.-ttt   p-
TussOssS-s-l'autt-1            u -                               ..lst     .sSsputuat..dO
spssu3  es  ssadsp.sss     ..susa -ad-   ssdsasa       TR-oo:  ;ua .aus
ssudapa dus  psa  lsao u-       'sa   snt   pus   u  ssi
1961 --f    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    sPu.,    ql56uluutsujuadd    suAs.sasu..u
Tsuaaus,sss   sou g;-uus uATM p  so
--I  Za  -a p-                                                                              .1q ~~~~~~~~~~ausdssusuuda.sp.pusd.(  ;auuu q._auuup -uo .suqt-dusao i   sn
_oa;asu   P q  uso61 P--.  IOO61    es096 t a593q..uT p 5q -uduO    _su
usu  austadsssquus    PTusouu  as     psasuu    s1t u053C5
sauasoossoaausuu  pssuu   ssupussauusuus;usssd   ssa6sqs
'q   'dll 1 ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~usuu suusTduslusdaaa_u;usasasaa  5  (1 -udaust
0965uss                                                                        pu   sPssd  'slu9auqpsdasud Cu; 99u  5 955"I'llpstu...uduf
I'l_u                                                             '5d5-p61'g-91 Ap   d   ...1 pud   0161061,- sou
uNflI -(duaddu) psurpstuuu5  uaaaus  ussueqyuu5dj ou....ud                            p..)IC550d5I'aP"I                                                           51-556l
'.-     s   . qsdusSuus )a usud'                                                                                       P a     PiTOo add uu96suSflfds ausap -aup
stdnas.aussda pausdap         -Psu..slusqdo    dauu-o0u   uuu4 suuds                          s yslssqlP ...Ld-   09P,   .slssu           u     .....p..s.s..I    su
uu..us baPu.. au        CZrusu   -du            Zdspuudp    uuluau                     001ps06 I09-1",',   Is  a  sussPI             1, sAs0u          . pu ..sjsA. dsudup
- peass  ut 55955- (ldsdd sod 90) 05u5-0asuau;  ussuad aupssq1'  ddtsras                                  '505  0661  pu 0961    09- O6     1961  1-d'  usp60   d0
pu.'55ds1   usssdaussussusa9 suusdp      dsss- sss,ssu-.     us.d Iulsq.su s2.1ps-l.......lluIsdsOtussOuusoOs. uIa" spdpuP"
610bp  0090Ossdasuo'sds  puo   opuq Ts                                                          Aloso Po'oausdau
P- S9 P.- Si -P.-  J.   'T"K        ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ us  supu  00ssss  otpus  sp  ud uusud  Iso  a   usd09sssusol
p       uosT OuIuuOOO11    uuou                                         5156,, .96 .... 0d61 p9161oud   5u1su
099-01..   ...5 - s I   ursoddasiusuuo                                   suds   pq  sussss  susu3usSusou_ usopu   o56
-u   P ususdususd6u1  ao16  1-ssq ad  assu I susO  161ps'06 02usIsdlo  usdpddus--                                                            udsossossossuv '
-.1.1 Z96up  ob  (s                                  96  p5P61'ploT    soisad096s1uoa  adsadsus  0soiudlKM URsss
010   66   1ssa  ua1  sad  u  dsduda  u  sd`usdsd  'ddsssosad                           5   sOu   dusosopsdsss5    (opld   o   d   sdsu
pusluduasuus  'usdussuo  suus  osdou  dos  p          uuusdsdod- uu_  J                     5'>      ,d-auo  ossdu   puT.ssasolsuuo   opussuos
P  '- apj161- u  001- 06d    ouddou.sau1-usudduAs  uol-5'Ispo ....                                                     usdssdpos0   55..u....ussd  s   usps
pdsusuu.o1assau'd0sass1sdu;uos~    luddadsauluuduuPuspuusspoouuoosuods'suaspaudopojosjuus-spdd u..u
uasu  asqs osuu japs,aoas   ss  Odudsuqs  sosss -(suadud)dlsud     usaso  ud 1  uspl -  001-o-6011 dl 05  duduoooupoa  pou  ;u  spu
's5sp 0661 pus 0061 '0961  is1ouasduus                                                                   601009009 099 0001~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...   ... 
-sId doOspuasdo  ssooa   -(d- aldd9   uodd    as ---- loso T                                                 su
us     ..a . 9-ua  doj -55u5p5, !.ujps;dods 'as.so  -dau  puus sus_.s                                                                                             *asd5ud"dZ1,,
lddqsaoulpas~   saJsssdOddoospaapooasuus                            dsuudd-tssoosuossIsdspuu-sdpoddsod                                   -a
'oussusouussdOussddsosas1sPo  d  u              uosaOs  0  usOdIsdl  -lsusuuu  5s049    '                     TaOOOv    50d5  010us
pudupsuoso  s~~ us  'suso jsssusPduspasdsa 00 Issossoad-pa.osup                         --sdsol-OOd                                                    0660
psopusads  5 pusap  ,'ddduss'ssasa 5 sduasOPup  a            .........ao                       Zd?06   '910slpdspOu6s Psddudo    Ols6so  -505  dol
aSudaut sau Puuoo      ...sstou -d psssuooad)u-ss'ud sodsdOOOO-                                J.555ddsad555d55059   OosodOosdudd
*udajassssuu   51asuosssusss  loossauI 15 ps s5duoo   us's  suq110  osossdao500  0  duss  udo0                  s  -  as09  uusodd6u uo-
P-a5ua  sopssou  uplu    usssddpsuo  adp60,auo0'op161ps'bl'at    u,uuo
uuussdpsdqluasuosaot  o1~(uo5ssuddp--sodd1du0sd0                                      sdp-jpssooadouup                     Pou-lposododaO__u P,             supd
'du5soous 55 pd5550955d0d500u0                               saup 0960 00        P065'obsu6s1 '0 u6 ouoO1
asP.u.sqasuos   0   ssuulssd  aa~~    05d ......T              sP Os-15 do- p0!000od   oas   uo   ud-  - oPus-,                                       us  -su   010  aod
-"sosos  d~pd--suo-5 15000--0 5005d  --soas  .11"                           -   -d000   -j- -     .AoodOas-l) dOs   OubOdO u0 a50
pu  'asuo  usosousuuo-     u   sus-       a.,.-I Asou suds Posa   as                                                               opP I..'00   06500000
p    -~~~~~asdsONO                           -00..-...o   'udd  o0....oO      (o .oui.oO-odsoPuolo
.,~~~~~~~I_   AT                                                         "I~~~~~~~'00  Ol  u  0.6  '0965 ....I
possasudo  puPsu;us5udoopups IsoA.....soo.ssuo                         puosd-olososooaspooou                                      saouds..o...aus
us (ssss ps psa  00 aqso   ssupuusaudso -  audoad) sud Ioauo 5    ~                                            'sup'PI'lpol'oo9  '096   sud
1-,ld P   -dd. I'ssd  oo.-sasoodo(sasA -0l)55095-   dsoa-ad-ulslo-d  su.pOo  '9  05la
a Osus  asosso90  asquu  0 pOss p  1uos dspuouupusoOas1a                                                                          Oauud  05us5 du
u    -puluu   Taaos00-  spos   u  'odudoad - ududoos10au                                                                                               sO  16   psu
'sususoso 1dapouss  d  odauodapss  o lodpdsdpo  3aso 515Ouss adoosldaus  ossss10 1 ods  255  o                    -ouousPoo
Ausud  o09sussoaouosas pu'soospuuouou'   slasdodssoodso0doAT_o _u sso_Os  dsss
sdsuIdoosuAlad-odAooua........sosd                                                                                                     .  ...dd0d9d0  psooda11ud000odsoosa    oOuo
11-9 P-2.  -PJT,~~~~~ _'psososA--uddsoo  Idsd p- sss  --                                                             oT a oosopoda   do-d  ussu.s.5
duosuuooauuu   PussudodooT-do'Puosussu   'lsu-spsos -050    9ooo1u1o1odoo;osdaaos                                                              1ooaouo1d         uo
ossuuduas  asuad   usuassa~  ass  do;ssdoauuaoUduooodos              'Isol sssuploo    .   .... l.s ....s...  ..lsu d.."       _5  sM 15 00
1duoossspsaodusu~aoous1  pusulsu'Iduoo  -losooslaopuuodo       aussoooosoosuuoudos eqs oossoOsoauaosssospdssP(oss  aoa -oslsd
'uPsuouss  sssssu  od  ddo   do  1- d0-09a -s-ss    'T -suduo                  sq   upousssausossoo                      sdoad   qj'ss  us                 ss
TuoddOpssdlslssusuoa......000   s;a5soO                                                        OOd'055 .           spsuoo.....a'd505055u5050
dd105d005  ausa  aO505~d  ddddop  05pd _O90  a1ossOouooosoa055   os'ussou- -oud   0  osa010pa
159  as  aaso1  spsos  5suo   dd OoOOdus~ooo  Asoa                                                00  lud   osdO5ua9  puosa.....asoo  ss
sosdddsd  50  sssoaoosuu   5ud5Osussa  oo a  ru1   so    -d ....sau -ssoaaossd-d   aua-p55  do      ao   aQoOdu   oo  su
asso --pu  Iusu 'Pub   suOd          - suOps d15  'soo -. Id_,     ouSa                         asaoussusos  d   55000   5ds   -dssoodlsoa
-WR             Z86~~100A 05 61   pus  l 'os  usooo-r  1o  od   olos   sullO            oou
`Osausaad -dasosoldd        5adPlsPusoP O'5-d-4  o-uaouasdos'd'.loslasuassal'd
udssoassdssssuusob Ous0 5015 dlussaOdsddsd d055155p5500050d5005                          s   00    0su-ospI.d1  dsg05'udsud0   oO
T;  - 55d0dpds -udo                                            "Ids-(duoso3   sos   Ossssoouu.odo0'-     ,;  dsuol   10 5 "Iossuu _ ;o  Ous6soosuds6IsOdO
P..   -d-,  ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     uau    ulooo                              doa'0 a~ddsaslloso   o  uudsu   oso)s'uu-oda                                  .
Pos  sd1sd-uoooT. us -do-pl-ouuds1us    'luoodd'0sodpdsOou   u   oloosdsoPOdsosuPP905u0o   00
lsoauauo  poOoo  sss  us'u90  osd5sod  u  uoOos  a               06T0puuoaduoou  odsousOdo   ood-c- UT   ss  uu-usoso
spqooussao.  ........9u'~5o                  ......dd.-sOad Zuaa   PuooduPauo                                                                               -os lau . d.........
I       '"      "'l"od-      ,"I opdosoodOsuad  P1ou- ll0 s--   usuy'a
...   061P06              091p5'o9   06   0Pp  00     sssOo)sd- 19  u0ooO                               00
A. d-~~~~~~~ X---...  ~~~~~~~~~~~2_-    -2"  .... ..1d0106501000  0'00sdu
'ad   0   59S  ""P '19  sus "I"..... _dsoo  daP....                                                                                   .....  t_
supspo      IIpdo -soosusupssoaOdodPdO-pdtOaodood.         oOO....'ddp   61P0 '-
go    C    a2va ~    ~     ~     ~    555~d9ldOi00uudpdulspOd                                              060dsloodauloudTo  0uou5   o  1v  aos  susou   o
00Isdpusos   osudu   dso019'1   'au  a'd00'uauusoo0d  -ad    ossd -odo'oodsd'ouoTosoo    uso   aso



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
HAITI - ECONOMIC INDICATORS 1/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1983                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% In constant prices)
USS Million         S        1970-75 3/          1975-80 4/    1980-83 4
GNP at Market Pricas                      1749,8          100.0          3.8                5.4           -0.3
Gross Dovestic Investment                  270e4           15.5         14.2               11.1            -4.2
Gross National Savings 2/                  190,5           10.9         19.7                0.7          -13.6
Current Account Balance                    -79.9            4.6          -                  -
Export of Goods, NFS 5/                    303.2           16.7         11.9               11.0           -4.9
Import of Goods, NFS /                     472.9          27.7          10.0               14.2           -2.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1983
Value Added
USS Million         S
AgricultLre                                556.1           33.4
Industry 6/                                431.2          25.9
Services                                   677.7           40.7
Total/Average                             1665.0          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 7/                      Central Government
G_Million         % of GOP               G  Million            % of GDP
1983       1975    1981   1983            1983         1975    1981    1983
Current Rscelpts                         1505.4      13.1    1 5.2   17.1           846. 5         9.3      8.7     9.6
Current Expenditures                     1276.6      11.7    16.8   14.5            806.8          8.2    11.7      9.1
Current Sijrplus(+) or Deficit (-1        228.8       1.4    -1.6    2.6             39.7          1.1    -3.0       0.5
Capital E:tpanditures                     930.3       7.5      9.7   10.5           743.6          5.5      8.5      8.4
External Assistance (net) 8/              350.7       5.2      7.4    4.0           188.9          4.5      7.4     2.1
MONEY. CRiEDIT AND PRICES
1978          1979          1980           1981          1982          1983
( Million G Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi-Money                              1431.5         1872.7         1917.7        2197.5         2267.2       2347.6
Net Bank Credit to Government                       457.7         538.4           886.7         1149.2        1359.0       1989.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                       969.0         988.2          1057.7         1200.6        1241,1       1116.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money as % of GDP                    28.6           33.5           27.6           29.1          27.8          26.6
Consumer Pi-ice Index (Base 1976 = 100)             104.3          114.4          135.0          146.1         158.1         171.4
Annual Percentage Changes in
Consumer Price Index                                 -2.9           9.7            18.1            8.2           8.2           8,4
Net Bank Credit to Government                       -10.4           17.6           64.7           29.6          18.3         *46.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                        36.9            2.0            7.0           13.5           3.4        -10.0
Note:  All conversions to dollars In this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/  Data refer to FY ending September 30.
2/  Does not Include current transfers.
3/  IHS, Compte de la Nation, 3/31/81.
4/  World Bank estimates.
5/  Net of Imported inputs for assembly Industry exports.
6/  Mining, manufacturing, public utilitles and construction.
7/  ConsolIdated Accounts of Central Government and PubiIc Enterprises.
8/  Net dis,ursements of loans and grants.
October 1984
LCIHP



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
HAITI - TRADE, PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1980-83)
1978     1979        1980      198t      1982     1983                                                     USS MIllIon    %
USS MIl I lon
Coffee                                    53.1          26.2
Export of Goods, NFS                   203.6    209.1        317.0    257.2      301.6    303.2           Cocoa                                      3.7           1.8
e-       Import of Goods, NFS                   292.2   -342.2        445.7    482.0      452.7    472.9           Essential OIls                              5.9          2.9
Resource Gap (deficIt  -)              -88.6  -1335.1       -128.7  -224.8   -151.1   -169.7              BauxIte                                   14.4           7.1
Assembly Industry (net)                   57.1          28.2
Interest Payment (net)                 -14.7    -13.4        -5.7      -7.7      -10.7    -13.9           Small Industry and Handicraft             40.7          20.1
Other Factor Payments (net)                ..       ..        -8.7      -5,6      -3.4      -8.1          All Other CommodIties                     27.7          13.7
Net Transfers                            77.9     85.8        85.4    130.9       118.9    111.8              Total                                202.6         100.0
Balance on Current Account             -25.4    -60.7        -57.7   -107,2      -46.3      79.9
Net MLT Borrowing                       42.2      33.1        54.4    100,2       34.8      57.4
Disbursements                         51.3     39.3        65.9    110.9       46.4      70.5
Amortization                          9.2       6.2        11.5     10.7       11.6      13.1
EXTERNAL DEBT. SEPTEMBER 30, 1983        USS Mi llion
Other Items, n.e.l.                      16.5     41.8        -8.9    -27.5       -7.2      -6.0
Increase In Official Reserves t-)    -10.3    -14.0           12.2     34.5       18.7      28.5          Public Debt Including guaranteed              467.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves '/                       49.8      59.1        51.8     34.7        50.7     47.2          Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Net Reserves I                          22.9      39.0        29.5     -3.8      -14.5    -37.3
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                              24.5     34.5        61.4      64.7       55.6     47.1          Public Debt, Including guaranteed                5.3
Exports                               -         -           -        -          -         -           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total OutstandInq and Disbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                          IBRO/IDA LENDING lSeptember 30. 1984)  USS Mil II on
Since 1919                                                                                               Outstanding and Disbursed                     150.4
USS 1. 00 = G 5. 00                                                                                     Undlsbursed                                    60.9
G 1.00= USS0.20                                                                                        Outstanding including undisbursed             211.3
1/ Consolidated banking system
- Not applIcable.
Not available.
October 1984
LCIHP
I



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1984)
--------US$ million-
Loan or                                                    (Less cancellation)
Credit                                                 Bank
Number   Year           Borrower         Purpose      Amount   IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and seven credits have been fully disbursed 2,6   76e92
757-HA   1978  Republic of Haiti  Water Supply                   6.6        0.09
770-HA   1978  Republic of Haiti  Education II                  10.0        0.43
895-HA   1979  Republic of Haiti  Power II                      16.5        0.87
1106-HA  1981  Republic of Haiti  Agricultural
Rehabilitation            2.60       0.08
1121-HA  1981  Republic of Haiti  Ports                          8.69       0.16
1131-HA  1981  Republic of Haiti  Industrial Credit              5.69       2.84
1220-HA  1982  Republic of Ha.iti  Highways VI                  12.19       6.92
1257-HA  1982  Republic of Haiti  Forestry                       3.60       3.10
1281-HA  1982  Republic of Haiti  Power III                     23.08       9.19
1305-HA  1983  Republic of Haiti  Education III                  8.39       4.75
1338--HA  1983  Republic of Haiti  Urban Development             7.39       5.17
SF01--HA  1983  Republic of Haiti  Urban Develoment             11.99      10.99
1410--HA  1984  Republic of Haiti  Rural
Development II          17.68      16.30
Total                                        2.6   211.32       60.89
of which has been repaid                   2.6      0.07
Total now outstanding                        -      211.25
Amount sold                                  0.4
of which has been repaid                   0.4      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      211.25
Total Undisbursed                                            60.89



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
HAITI
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1984)
Fiscal                                                   Amount in US$ Million
Year           Borrower                 Business         Loan    Equity   Total
1982      Promoteurs et                Integrated        1.35     0.15      1.50
Investisseurs                Poultry
Associes, S. A.
Total Gross Commitments                       1.35      0.15      1.50
Less Repayments                              -         _        -
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                      1.35     0.15      1.50
Total Undisbursed                             0.11      0.04     0.15



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
IPOURTH POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project identification:
(1) Government presentation of
project to IDA:                     1982-83
(2) Identification/preparation
mission:                           March 21, 1983
(3) Completion of feasibility
studies:                           September 1983
(b)  Appraisal mission departure:             September 26, 1983
(c)  Negotiations completed:                  September 7, 1984
(d)  Estimated effectiveness date:            March 1985
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
During negotiations, assurances have been received regarding the
following matters:
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
(1) EdH would sign an agreement with ODVA, satisfactory to IDA
regulating the uses of the Artibonite River (Para.45).
(2) The execution and ratification of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and EdH (para. 53).
(3)  All the conditions precedent to the first disbursement of
the CCCE loan except for the effectiveness of IDA Agreement
have been fulfilled (para. 52).



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)  Investment Limitations
(1) Restriction of annual unbudgeted aggregate village and rural
electrification to 0.2 percent of net fixed assets (para. 30).
(c) Financial covenants
(1)  Authorization of EdH to maintain its liquid assets in
interest-bearing accounts or in investments not exceeding six
months (para. 30).
(d) Other Covenants
(1) Reduction of system losses of electricity (para. 46).
(2)  EdH resources would be used exclusively for its operation, and
investment (para. 32).
(3) The Government will prepare a municipal finance study, ptovide
it to the Associaton for comments by June 30, 1986, prepare a
plan of action by September 30, 1986, and implement them by
January 31, 1987 (para. 49).






IBRD- 17956
72-                ~~~~JANUARY 1984
yUU(  7                                                     73030                                         73~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ y   i   0                  0     FAI
~~~~~~~'                                                                                                     0077OC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
to         OAAAUp                                                   AT/ANT/c ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;t-  IAO                                      EAN7
to                                                                                PORT 00 PALO     AA,LQ,A~~~~~~~~~~N"
74-30 ~ ~ ~   ~           ~            ~           ~           ~          ~           ~          ~         ~          
~~FOMH:powk   AP770P0070                                                                                                              2NA
P0EC     0KIT   2             UPHALIOYLB.   070'                                                                                                                                                  AP'ULLP
CACEA   PtAPJ
UNDER ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;ON~~~~~~~~~TRYCTPOIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~         ~        ~         ~        ~         ~       ~        OB 
EXISTING~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
EXISTIN
70000 0T0)N7l000-A-01'
5  COLOPLNG                                                                                                                                             -A-'          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,   ~~~     o..73:L       St~~~~~~0
epU,                                          ..-.72LA0' CL'CL 
DAMES'                                                                                                                                                                                                        LLO
PLANN20
£77700                                                                                                                                              UBU0LBNOE-Ž                                              ¶PUMNDSI
-05070.2  LOCUS                                                                                                        ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..     I~~~~~t~~~                 WY'           .2~~lHA
7LUpU7A07077 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~ ~ 0=
'k                                                                                                                                                                   rp~~~~~~~~A-    oprop
Al ~        ~~ -                                                                                                                                     0,00L0 (             FN-_                                 70
UPTON                                                                                           0CC~~~~~~~ll                                                                             0
00 CL 0 UJ 0Ud  0A/V                                                 & 
A0~~~>                          CAS/BdFs~~~~I,V                                            72E                                            72.



