I 0  MEAL          CREDIT NUMBER 1527-0 HA
Project Agreement
(Fourth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ELECTRICITE d'HAITI
Dated                               , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1527-0 HA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           X           I      , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and Electricit6 d'Halti (hereinafter called EdH).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Haiti (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 21,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that EdH
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EdH, the proceeds of the Credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement for the purposes of
carrying out Parts A (3) and (4), B, C and technical assistance
under Part A (1) and (2) of the Project will be made available to
EdH on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS EdH, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EdH declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B


﻿-2-
and C of the Project described in such Schedule with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist EdH in carrying out Parts
A, B and C of the Project, including the preparation and evalua-
tion of bidding documents under Parts A and B of the Project, EdH
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association, such consultants to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for
Parts A, B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) EdH undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by EdH to replace or repair such goods.
(b) EdH shall cause all goods and services under Parts A,
B and C of the Project financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the pur-
poses of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) EdH shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, terms of reference, plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for Parts A, B and C of the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) EdH shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts A, B and C of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from


﻿-3-
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in such Parts of
the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in such
Parts of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request con-
cerning such Parts of the Project, their cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from them, the expenditures of
such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by EdH of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Parts A, B and C of the
Project, but in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between EdH and the Association, EdH shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of such Parts of the Project, their cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from them, the performance by
EdH and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(e) EdH shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of EdH and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 2.06. EdH shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, EdH shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) EdH shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A, B and C of the Project, the performance of


﻿-4-
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) EdH shall promptly inform the Association of --ay condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of Parts A, B and C of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by EdH of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.08. EdH shall enter into an agreement with ODVA to
regulate the use of the Artibonite river for irrigation, flood
control and power generation on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.09. EdH shall: (a) select the beneficiaries of
fellowships on the basis of criteria, and under terms and condi-
tions, satisfactory to the Association; (b) consult with the
Association concerning the proposed training institutions for
beneficiaries of fellowships; and (c) make arrangements, satis-
factory to the Association, for the placeme*nt of such fellowship
beneficiaries.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EdH
Section 3.01. (a) EdH shall aL all times carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, and public utility practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, EaH shall cause the positions of General Mana-
ger, Technical Director, Planning Director, Administrative Direc-
tor and Internal Auditor to be filled at all times by persons
whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the
Borrower, the Association and EdH.
Section 3.02. EdH shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and


﻿-5-
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. EdH shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. EdH shall, not later than December 31, 1986,
cause the Peligre Dam and related structures periodically to be
inspected in accordance with sound engineering practices in order
to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition
of such structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance
or methods of operation thereof, which may endanger their safety.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EdH shall not sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise
dispose of any of its rights, property or assets except in the
ordinary course of business.
Section 3.06. EdH shall reduce its losses of produced energy
to not more than: (a) 26% not later than September 30, 1985; (b)
22% not later than September 30, 1986; (c) 19% not later than
September 30, 1987; and (d) 17% not later than September 30, 1988
and thereafter, and for such purposes shall take in a timely
manner all necessary measures satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. EdH shall carry out a training program for its
staff satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EdH shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures.
(b)   EdH shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of


﻿- 6 -
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Asso-
ciation's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. EdH shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each such
Fiscal Year: (i) certified copies of its financial statements for
such Fiscal Year as so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit and the Special Fund Credit made available to it and
withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts, financial statements, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EdH shall earn an annual return of not less than 5 per
cent in the Fiscal Years ending September 30, 1985 and 1986, not
less than 7 per cent in the Fiscal Year ending September 30,
1987, and not less than 8 per cent in the Fiscal Year ending
September 30, 1988 and thereafter of the average current net
value of EdH's fi..ed assets in operation.
(b) Before December 31 and June 30 in each of its Fiscal
Years, EdH shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by EdH and
satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such Fiscal
Year and the next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the
Association results of such review upon its completion.


﻿-7-
(c) If any such review shows that EdH would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the EdH's Fiscal
Years covered by such review, EdH shall promptly take all neces-
sary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of its
power tariff structure and levels of its rates) in order to meet
such requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
EdH's net operating income for the Fiscal Year in
question by one-half of the sum of the current net
value of EdH's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of such Fiscal Year.
(ii) The   term  "net  operating   income"  means  total
operating revenues less total operating expenses.
(iii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources relating to operations.
(iv) The term    "total operating expenses" means all
expenses relating to operations, including admini-
stration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation
on the basis acceptable to the Association, but
excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(v) The average current gross value of EdH's fixed
assets in operation shall be calculated as one
half of the sum of the gross value of EdH's fixed
assets in operation at the beginning and at the
end of the Fiscal Year, as valued from time to
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
the Association.
(vi) The term "current net value of EdH's fixed assets
in operation" means the gross value of EdH's fixed
assets in operation less the amount of accumulated
depreciation, as valued from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained
methods of valuation satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.


﻿- 8 -
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EdH shall: (a) annually value its fixed assets in
operation, to such extent as shall be necessary to reflect
adequately, at the time of such valuation, the current value
thereof, in accordance with a sound and consistently applied
method of valuations acceptable to the Association; and (b)
register, annually, the results of such valuation on its books.
Section 4.05, Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EdH shall not incur:
(a) any long-term debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of EdH shows that the estimated net
revenues of EdH for each Fiscal Year during the term of the debt
to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt
service requirements of EdH in such Fiscal Year on all long-term
debt of EdH including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes
of this paragraph:
(i) The term "long-term debt" means any indebtedness
of EdH maturing by its terms more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) The term "net revenues" means the difference bet-
ween: (A) the sum of revenues from all sources
related to operations and net non-operating in-
come; and (B) the sum of all expenses related to
operations   including  administration,   adequate
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
but excluding provision for depreciation, other
non-cash operating charges and interest and other
charges on debt.
(iii) The term    "net non-operating income" means    the
difference between: (A) revenues from all sources
other than those related to operations; and (B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
(A) above.
(iv) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.


﻿-9-
(v) The term    "resonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by EdH not earlier than twelve months
prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,
which both the Association and EdH accept as
reasonable and as to which the Association has
notified EdH of its acceptability, provided that
no event has occurred since such notification
which has, or may reasonably be expected in the
future to have, a material adverse effect on the
financial condition or future operating results of
EdH.
(b) Any short term-debt, unless the aggregate of all short-
term debt incurred by EdH, including the short-term debt to be
incurred, but deducting, to the extent the Association is satis-
fied therewith, cash and the cash value of negotiable instruments
held by EdH, is equal to or less than one-sixth (1/6) of the
operating, maintenance and administrative expenses (excluding
depreciation and other non-cash provisions) of EdH for the
twelve-month period preceding such incurrence. For the purposes
of this paragraph the term "short-term debt" means all debt of
EdH' for money borrowed, including bank overdrafts, maturing by
its terms on demand or less than one year after the date on which
it was incurred.
(c) For the purposes of this Section, debt shall be deemed
to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract, agreement or
instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date Che
agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
(d) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Asso-
ciation.
Section 4.06. (a) EdH shall not, without the prior approval
of the Association, undertake, prior to the completion of the
Project, any investment in the power sector exceeding the equiva-
lent of one per cent (1%) of the current net value of EdH's fixed


﻿- 10 -
assets in operation nor permit the aggregate amount of unbudgeted
village and rural electrification costs in any year to exceed
0.2% of such net value.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
term "current net value of fixed assets in operation" means the
gross value of fixed assets in operation less the amount of accu-
mulated depreciation, all as valued in accordance with Section
4.04 of this Agreement.
Section 4.07. (a) EdH shall not use its resources for any
purpose other than to pay the costs of its capital expenditures,
total operating expenses and its debt service requirements.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "capital expenditures" means all expen-
ditures  incurred  on account of    fixed assets,
including   interest   charged   to  construction,
related to operations.
(ii) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(iii) The term    "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including adminis-
tration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation
on the basis acceptable to the Association of the
average current gross value of EdH's fixed assets
in operation, but excluding interest and other
charges on debt.
(iv) The average current gross value of the Borrower's
fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as
one half of the sum of the gross value of the
Borrower's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of the Fiscal Year, as
valued from time to time in accordance with sound
and consistently maintained methods of valuation
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 11 -
(v) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or in the absence of such rate, on the basis
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.08. EdH shall maintain its liquid funds in
interest-bearing accounts or in interest-bearing investments not
exceeding six months to maturity.
Section 4.09. The Prior Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting the current wording in Sections 3.02, 3.05 (b), 4.03 and
4.05 of the Prior Agreement and replacing it by wording in Sec-
tions 3.06, 3.04, 4.03 and 4.05 of this Agreement, respectively.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancel.ation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of EdH thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
EdH of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For EdH:
Electricit6 d'Halti
Port-au-Prince
Boite Postale 1753
Haiti
Cable address:                    Telex:
ELECDHA                           3490113
Port-au-Prince
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of EdH may be taken or executed by its
General Manager or such other person or persons as such General
Manager shall designate in writing, and EdH shall furnish to the


﻿- 13 -
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signatureof each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Carribbean
ELECTRICITE d'HAITI
Byiv
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
B.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the pro-
cedures described in Part A of this Schedule, the Borrower may
grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accord-
ance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for proprietary items under Part A (3) and (4) of
the Project may be procured on a negotiated basis on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for works under Part B of the Project may be
procured on the basis of extension of the existing contract for
such works financed by the Association under the Third Power
Project on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿- 15 -
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.   The  figure   10%  is  hereby  specified   for  purposes  of
paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


