Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9236
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1358-PE)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Inti (I/.)*
Average Market Rates for Period
End of 1976       US$1  =  0.06 Intis
End of 1977       US$1  -  0.08 Intis
End of 1978       US$1  =  0.16 Intis
End of 1979       US$1  =  0.22 Intis
End of 1980       US$1  -  0.29 Intis
End of 1981       US$1  =  0.42 Intis
End of 1982       US$1  -  0.70 Intis
End of 1983       US$1  =  1.63 Intis
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCR        -      Banco Central de Reserva del Peru (Central Bank)
BIP        -      Banco Industria del Peru (Industrial Bank of Peru)
COFIDE     -      Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo (Development
Finance Corporation)
CONADE     -      Corporacion Nacional de Desarrollo
EPS        -      Social Property EnterpriLes
ICSA       -      Inversiones COFIDE S.A.
IDB        -      Inter-American Development Bank
PCR        -      Project Completion Report
PDF        -      Project Development Fund
PPS        -      Public Sector Enterprises with Public Attributes
GOVERNMENT OF PERU FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
*Note:  The new Government that took office in 1985 changed the currency
unit from the Sol (S/.) to the Inti (I/.). One Inti is equivalent
to 1,000 Soles.



FOR omaML USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
wasv ton. D.C. 20433
U.S A
ONte nt O1feit.ciCGf It
Ope,a^uw ivaiMiNim
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Peru
Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1358-PE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled *Project
Completion Report on Peru - Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1358-PE)'
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
IThis document hu a tnsted distribution and may be used by oe is onl inthe perlannauc
|od theif offciii duties Its contents may not othenne be dbian witbout Worl Bm autb_nso



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1358-PE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE             .............................................................                                 i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY                      ..................................................                    iii
PART  I.   PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  THE  BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE  ....                           ..........        1
A.  Project  Identity               .         ....................................              1
B.  Background  ...........................................                                     I
C.  Project  Objectives  and  Description  ...................                                  2
D. Project Design and Organization .................                                            3
E.  Project  Implementation  ...............................                                    5
F. Project  Results  ......................................                                     6
G.  Project  Sustainability  ...............................                                    7
H. Bank  Performance  .....................................                                     7
I.  Borrower's  Performance  ...............................                                    9
J.  Project  Relationship  .................................                                  11
K.  Project  Documentation  and  Data  .......................                                11
PART  III.   STATISTICAL  INFORMATION  .................................                                       12
1. Related  Bank  Loans  ....................................                                 12
2.  Project  Timetable  ................                ..        ..................          13
3.  Loan  Disbursements  ................                 ..       .................          14
4.  Use  of  Bank  Resources  ................................                                15
ANNEXES
1.     COFIDE:    Subproject  Profile  .................................                                    17
2.     COFIDE:    Subproject  Description  .............................                                    19
3.     COFIDE:    Balance  Sheets,  1975-1988  ..........................                                   22
4.     COFIDE:    Income  Statements,  1976-1983  .......................                                   24
5.     COFIDE:    Financial Ratios,  1977-1983  ........................                                    25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1358-PE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the First Industrial
Credit Project in Peru, for which Loan 1358-PE, in the amount of US$35.0
million equivalent was approved on December 27, 1976. The project was imple-
mented during a period of recession and macroeconomic instability in Peru and
the emergence of the Latin American debt crisis.   The loan was closed on
June 30, 1983, one year and nine months behind schedule. A total of US$2.9
million was cancelled, mostly reflecting cancellation of subloan commitments
by subborrowers.
Preparation of this PCR was delayed for two reasons: First, by the
time this operation was about to close, the Bank's staff resources were con-
centrated on the preparation of two other loans to COFIDE. Second, following
the suspension of disbursements, resources for work on Peru were limited.
Bank experience in Peru and other countries is that it is usually a mistake
to design successive operations without the benefit of a thorough review of
the previous operation by a PCR.
This PCR was prepared bv the Trade, Finance and Industry Division,
Country Department IV of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office.
Preparation of Part II was requested from the Borrower. But, given the time
elapsed since closing of the loan and the fact that many of the Borrower's
staff involved in managing the project have retired or moved to new assign-
ments, Part II was not completed.
Preparation of this PCR has not involved a mission to Peru.  It is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department.   The
draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments, but none were received.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1358-PE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.       This US$35 million equivalent loan to Corporacion Financiera de
Desarrollo (COFIDE), had as broad objectives to help improve production
efficiency and overcome Peru's balance of payments constraints by: (i)
financing export oriented and efficient import substituting projects from
state, private and mixed ownership enterprises; and (ii) strengthening
COFIDE's overall effectiveness as a development bank by strengthening its
resource allocation and mobilization capacity. The use of economic
analysis for Bank financed projects was expected to help COFIDE's resource
allocation ability and have a demonstration effect on other Government
agencies, thus helping to improve Peru's planning and investment decision
making process.
Implementation and Results
2.       The loan was approved on January 28, 1977 and declared effective
on March 30. The actual implementation took longer than planned due to:
(i) the economic recession of 1977 - 1979, which caused a slackening in
inv'stment demand; and (ii) problems with project design including:
reluctance of investors to assume the full foreign exchange risk, and the
availability of competing credit lines denominated in dollars at lower
interest rates than the Bank loan. Commitments and disbursements
accelerated in late 1979 as a result of: (i) a temporary economic recovery;
(ii) the exhaustion of alternative sources of foreign resources and higher
interest rates on dollar loans that made the Bank loan more competitive
(the loan's fixed on-lending rate on dollar denominated subloans had been
reduced from 1ll to 9.752 in 1978); and (iii) COFIDE's greater orientation
towards the private sector since 1978. The loan was closed on June 30,
1983, one year and nine months later than initially estimated.
3.       COFIDE used US$32.1 million in loan funds to finance 78
subprojects, including 15 above the free limit of US$500,000. Seven
subloans amounting to 222 of the loan went to state enterprises, with an
average loan size of over US$1.0 million compared to US$350,000 for private
sector subloans.
4.       It is doubtful whether the loan succeeded in its objective of
improving industrial efficiency and promoting exports, since the bulk of
commitments took place during 1979 - 1981, a period characterized in Peru
by macroeconomic instability, declining terms of trade and growing
overvaluation of the -hange rate.  Moreover, a substantial part of the



- iv -
loan went to sELte enterprises, less likely tnan private ones to be managed
with efficiency criteria. 3y December 1984, 16 subloans comprising over
402 of the loan amount were in arrears.
5.       The most critical shortcoming of the loan was probably its failure
tc improve COFIDE's resource mobilization capacity. During the life of the
loan, over 952 of COFIDE's resources came from external sources. Offering
negative interest rates in real terms, COFIDE's efforts to mobilize local
resources through bond issues met with limited success - although they
represented 762 of the resources mobilized locally. Between 1977 and 1982,
the period of easy access to petrodollars, COFIDE was able to mobilize
US$3.1 billion in foreign resources (US$525 million from international
organizations). After the onset of the international debt crisis, foreign
financing for COFIDE plummeted and with the 1983 crisis in Peru, local
resource mobilization also dried up.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.       The operation had a major design problem: the selection of COFIDE
as the inte-mediary for Bank funds. First, the use of COFIDE as
intermediary, to the exclusion of other private and public banks,
strengthened the Government's monopoly over term financing. At the time,
however, the loan was in line with accepted principles in_the Bank and
COFIDE was a prestigious institution with great influence on economic
decisions. Second, the use of C;.FIDE as intermediary presented a conflict
of interest problem. COFIDE was a holding company for a number of state
owned enterprises (thirteen at the time) and the agency in charge of
coordinating and guaranteeing the finance of state enterprises.  The Bank
was, therefore, using as financial iLtermediiry the owner of many of the
potential users of the funds. Third, at appraisal, the Bank did not fully
assess COFIDE's creditworthiness and relied too narrowly on COFIDE's low
debt/equity ratio as proof of financial soundness. The validity of this
ratio for public financial enterprises is questionable, when Governments
are ready to assume the debts of these institutions.
7.       In order to limit the risks of using COFIDE as intermediary, the
appraisal mission worked closely with COFIDE on a comprehensive Policy
Statement, focussing on COFIDE's development banking functions, and a
separate Statement of Operations, Policies and Procedures for the
administration of the Bank loan. These statements were designed to isolate
the loan from COFIDE's ownership role and tc safeguard its operational
autonomy. The Bank was overly optimistic abou-r the capacity of agreed
policies and procedures to safeguard the independence of a public financial
institution from political influenco~ over its lending decisions. Until
1983, institutional issues remained the main focus of Bank supervision,
with less attention paid to the underlying financial strength of the
institution. While the Bank made a considerable supervision effort during
the implementation of this loan, it had little success in convincing COFIDE
to reorient its lending to the private sector and to separate its lending
furction from its ownership of state enterprises. Some of the Bank
recommendations were implemented in 1981, when a new Government reorganized
COFIDE with the support of a follow on Bank loan to COFIDE (Loan 1968-PE).



v
8.       Even if the Bank supervision efforts and t... ggreed policies and
procedures succeeded in limiting political influence on Bank financed
subprojects, these safeguards did not shield the rest of COFIDE's portfolio
from political influences. In 1975, when the loan was being-appraised, 95Z
of COFIDE's portfolio operations were quasi-fiscal in nature, either as an
agent of the state or on its own behalf. By 1982, when the Bank loan was
largely committed, 87Z of the operations approved were still quasi-fiscal
in nature and COFIDE's portfolio was concentrated on a few state
enterprises (loans and guarantees to one state enterprise - Electro-Peru-
accounted for 502 of COFIDE's portfolio and were equivalent to 90? of
COFIDE's paid in capital and reserves, in violation of COFIDE's operational
procedures). By loan closing in 1983, COFIDE's financial situation had
become critical as a result of: (i) deterioration of its domestic currency
based capital structure under the force of inflation and the growth of its
dollar based liabilities structure; (ii) drastic reduction in f;.reign
financing; (iii) mounting arrears in its portfolio of state enterprises;
and (iv) delays in Government reimbursement of payments made by COFIDE on
Government's behalf.
9.       This loan shows how difficult it is to convert a public entity.
which combines the roles of owner and lender to public enterprises, into an
effective financial intermediary with proper financial discipline and
independence from political influence. This loan also shows that it is
unrealistic to expect that the use of project evaluation techniques in Bank
financed loans, would improve investment decision making by Government
agencies, which is often based on considerations other than efficiency.
10       In providing this loan, the Bank tried to support a new
Government that proposed to relax some of the pervasive controls on the
economy imposed by the military revolution since 1968. However, the
liberalization policies of the new Government were not far-reaching. In
fact, during the life of the loan, the Government maintained its ownership
of productive enterprises through COFIDE, kept interest rates
administratively fixed and highly negative, and directed credit through a
complex system of priorities. This loan shows the futility of supporting
with Bank loans half-measures of economic liberalization, in the hope that
further liberalization steps would be taken during loan implementation. It
also shows that it is difficult for the Bank to react to policy reversals
once an operation is being implemented.
Proiect Sustainability
10.      By the time the loan was closed in mid-1983, the Bank had already
approved two other loans to COFIDE: a follow on loan of US$60 million
equivalent (Loan 1968-PE) and a US$26 million loan for small and medium
enterprises (Loan 2064-PE). These funds allowed COFIDE to continue its
operations when external resources began to dry up in 1983. However,
unable to mobilize local resources, COFIDE's level of operations continued
at a v'ry low level, based on not servicing its external obligations and
relending the funds collected from its clients. Meanwhile, continued
financial repression, including highly negative interest rates, has
prolonged the scarcity of term credit for the productive sector in Peru.
The expected benefits of the project are, therefore, not being met.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1358-PE)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW PROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.       Proiect Identity
1.       Name                           Industrial Credit Project
Loan Number                   1358 - PE
RVP Unit                      Latin America and the Caribbean
Region
Country                       Peru
Sector                        Finance and Industry
B.       Backzroundl
2.       During the early 19709, industrial sector investment in Peru
increased rapidly, spurred by a system of import quotas and generous fiscal
incentives, as well as the growing domestic demand stimulated by the
income redistribution policies adopted since the 1968 military revolution;
Growth of industrial value added averaged 8.6annually in real terms
between 1968 and 1974, well above the real GDP increase. However, by-1975,
when the loan was being appraised, industrial sector growth had slowed
down, as producers were increasingly hampered by shortages of foreign
exchange and domestic credit.
3.       The major economic objectives of.the:-military government had been
to improve income distribution and wealth and- to-decentralize economic
activity away from Lima. Based on the-assumption that unregulated market
forces would not assure the desired socioeconomic development. the
Government assumed an active role in economic management. The State
expanded its control of the country's productive resources through the-
creation of public enterprises and the control of domestic and foreign
investment, and embarked on a fundamental transformation of the ownership
and management structures in the economy, through the creation of new
schemes of employee participation. In order to foster industrial
development, the Government established a complex policy framework
involving generous fiscal incentives (up to 852 tax exemptions); import
restrictions (import quotas, prior import authorization, and an average
nominal protection of 90Z); and concessional financing terms. The
incentives were granted on the basis of a priority system in which heavy
industries had first priority, other inputs for industry, agriculture and
1/  Based oji: PERU: Policies to Stop Hyperinflation and Initiate Economic
Recovery. A World Bank Country Study, April 1989



mining as well as essential goods for mass consumption had second priority,
and all other industries were considered complementary.
4.       This policy framework stimnulated the development of import
substitution £I_iastries with low domestic value added, low productivity,
and low capacity utilization. The cost to the treasury of the incentive
system became exceedingly high. On the other hand, ope-ating deficits of
,;blic sector enterprises, which had increased from 10? in 1968 to 482 in
1975, had to be covered with increased foreign borrowing.
5.       The new government that assumed control in late 1975 - shortly
before appraisal - while reaffirming its commitment to the reform program
initiated by the military revolution, took measures to correct some errors
of the previous economic management in the hcpe to stimulate investment,
increase efficiency and expand exports. The new economic measures
included: (i) reduction of consumer goods subsidies; (ii) increase in
incentives to non-traditional exports; (iii) reduction in duty exemptions
on imports of capital goods; and (iv).gradual liberalization of price
policies--including interest rates and exchange rates. In addition, to
restore confidence in the private sector, the Government had promised to:
(i) eract legislation guaranteeing the owner's managerial control of the
enterprises, limiting workers equity participation; (ii) suspend the labor
stability law, pending new legislation; and (iii) reassess the rigid
priority and incentive system. Although by the time of appraisal
significantly higher interest rates had been authorized for the banking
system, they remaine  highly negative, and loans from public development
banks continued to be determined by a priority system.
6.       As a result of these economic measures, and the expected recovery
of mineral prices, GDP growth for the second half of the decade was
expected to average 52 to 6Z, and industrial expansion was expected to
contribute increasingly to value added, exports and employment. The Bank
loan was designed to help achieve this growth level. Contrary to
expectations, however, loan effectiveness in early 1977 coincided with the
beginning of a strong recession that lasted until late 1979. In two years,
income per capita dropped 102 cumulative and inflation accelerated from
single digit levels to 602 in 1978. In 1979, the economy started growing
again, helped by a stabilization program (1978 - 79) and favorable terms of
trade. The civilian Government that took office in 1980 continued and
expanded the economic liberalization process initiated by the previous
Government. The recovery was, however, short lived: excessive
infrastructure investment, declining terms of trade and an increasingly
overvalued exchange rate contributed to macroeconomic instability. These
problems were compounded by the drying up of external voluntary lending in
1982 and natural disasters in 1983. As a result, in 1983, by the time the
loan closed, GDP plummeted by 122 and inflation increased to over 1002. In
response, the Government reversed the economic liberalization process.
C.       Proiect Obiectives and Description
7.       The broad objectives of the loan were to help improve production
efficiency and overcome Peru's balance of payments constraints by: (i)
financing export oriented and efficient import substituting projects, and
(ii) strengthening COFIDE's overall effectiveness as a development bank by



-3-
strengthening its resource allocation and mobilization capacity. The use
of economic analysis for Bank financed projects was expected to help
improve COFIDE's resource-allocation ability and have a demonstration
effect -n other Government agencies, thus helping to improve Peru's
productive sector development planning and investment decision-making
process.
8.       To -.hieve these ends the loan consisted of a line of credit to
COFIDE of US 35 million equivalent to finance the foreign exchange
component of economically efficient projects in the industrial,
agroindustrial, mining and tourism sectors. Beneficiaries included state.
private, reformed private and social property enterprises (EPS), mostly in
the medium- and large- size range. Loans to EPS enterprises were limited
to no more than US$10.5 million, reflecting the lack of experience with
this type of self-managed firms.
9.       The Bank loan to COFIDE was made at a fixed interest rate of 8.7Z
per annum. The Bank and the borrower agreed on an effective on-lending
rate of not less than 112 for dollar denominated subloans, with the
ultLmate borrower bearing the foreign exchange risk, including the cross-
currency risk. COFIDE would receive an administrative fee of not more than
1.5?. Subloan reinbursements out of the proceeds of the loan, together
with the local currency counterpart fund provided by COFIDE, would be
deposited into a special "Development Fund" - a separate account
established within COFIDE's financial statements. The operations of the
Fund were governed by a separa ' Statement of Operations, Policies and
Procedures, which established t±e maximum lending exposure of the Fund to
any one enterprise (15% of the total resources committed to the Fund) and
the minimum and maximum allowable financial contribution to any one project
(25? and 75Z of total project cost, respectively). Under the Loan
Agreement, COFIDE could use part of the margin between the Bank's and
COFIDE's lending rate, after deducting the administraLtive fee, to finance
training and technical assistance activities. An amendment to the loan
agreement introduced in November 1977, allowed COFIDE to use part of this
spread to contribute to a Guarantee Fund to guarantee loans made to small-
scale enterprises and associated technical assistance activities. Another
amendment in July 1978, allowed COFIDE to reduce the interest rate charged
to no less than 9.75Z per annum in subloans guaranteed by other financial
institutions, for a fee, provided the interest rate charged to the
subborrower was no less than 11Z. The loan was expected to finance about
35 to 50 projects.
D.       Proiect Design and Organization
10.      The project was designed as a DFC type of operation using COFIDE,
an autonomous state enterprise, as a channel. COFIDE's scope and tasks
were wider and more complex than those of many DFCs associated with the
Bank. COFIDE was created in 1971 to serve several purposes: (i) coordinate
and guarantee the financing of state enterprises, (ii) mobilize resources
for priority projects of state, private, reformed private and so.ial
oroperty enterprises, and (iii) act as a holding company for a number of
state enterprises in the industrial and tourism sector. Its operations
were expected to support Peru's Economic Development Plan.



-4-
11.      COFIDE's ownership of state enterprises made it " predominantly
industrial conglomerate with some development banking functiovs. This
situation posed the risk. that Batk funds could be given generously to
related companies independently of the economic and financial viability of
the projects. In order to limit such risk, the appraisal mission worked
with COFIDE in the preparation of a comprehensive Policy Statement focusing
on COFIDE's development banking functions, aad a separate Statement of
Operations, Policies and Procedures that wotld govern the operations of the
Fund. Other protective provisions incorpozated in the design of the loan
were: (i) a loan amount limit of US$4.0 million per sub-loan ard
subborrower; (ii) a total subloan amount limit to EPSs to US$10.5 million;
(iii) a relatively low free limit subloan of US$500,000s and (iv) an
economic evaluation of all projects financed with Bank funds (a special
justification would be required for projects with ERR below 10?).
12.      During loan preparation, Bank staff gave strong emphasis to
assessing COFTDE's project evaluation capacity. As the main Government
instrument for project financing of state enterprises and one of the main
sources of term finance for private enterprises, COFIDE's decision M.king
criteria for project financing had a strong economic impact. Prior to the
Bank loan, COFIDE's appraisal of projects focussed mainly on financial,
technical and marketing aspects. Althuugh COFIDE had recently introduced
economic appraisal on a trial basis, Bank staff found its appraisal
capability sufficiently strong to entrust it with allocating the proceeds
of the proposed loan.
13.      No specific technical assistance component was designed, but Bank
staff provided teaching material and conducted a seminar on ERR
calculation. It was agreed that during project implementation COFIDE would
expand its in-house training capability to include expertise in assessing
economic efficiency and on establishing and managing EPS financed by part
of the spread on foreign currency subloans.
14.      At appraisal, COFIDE's financial situation appeared acceptable,
although the Bank did not fully assess COFIDE's creditworthiness for lack
of reliable audited financial statements. The available financial
information indicated that, despite increasing foreign bo.rowing since
1973, COFIDE's debt/equity ratio was still rather lows 2.7 : 1; asseta
amounted to US$359 million equivalent. Since almost 70? of COFIDE's loan
portfolio was still in the disbursement and/or grace period stage, arrearage,
reschedulings and write-offs had been minimal, although there was
substantial concentration of potential risk in COFIDE's portfolio. On the
other hand, as a result of low local currency interest rates and
commissions on foreign exchange loans, COFIDE's income had been affected
and profitability had been substantially below annual iuflation for several
years, resulting in an erosion of its capital in real terms. To ensure a
sound financial structure for COFIDE in the future, the bank and the
borrower agreed on: (i) a contractual 5 : 1 debt/ equity limitation under
the Bank loan; (ii) an initial minimum local currency contribution of
COFIDE to the Development Fund of 2:1; and (iii) agreement on criteria for
future adjustment of COFIDE's interest rates to reflect market conditions.
Although during loan preparation Bank staff discussed at length with
Government and COFIDE's officials the isEue of negative interest rates, no
commitment was obtained from the Governm_nt to move towarus positive
interest rates.



-5-
15.      Measured against current Bank thinking on credit line lending, the
project had several important design problems. First, the selection of
COFIDE as the intermediary for Bank funds, to the exclusion of other
private and public banks, strengthened COFIDE's monopoly over term
financing. At the time, however, the loan was in line with accepted
principles in the Bank and COFIDE was in the mid seventies a prestigious
institution with great influence on economic decisions. Second, the use of
COFIDE as intermediary presented an additional serious problem: the
conflict of interests inherent in using as financial intermediary the head
of an industrial conglomerate that included most of the potential users of
the funds. Third, the Bank did not assess COFIDE's creditworthiness and
relied too narrowly on COFIDE's low debt/equity ratio as proof of financial
soundness. The validity or this ratio for public financial enterprises is
questionable, when Governments are ready to assume the debts of these
institutions. Fourth, the adoption of a fixed interest mechanism on
foreign currency denominated subloans made the loan insensitive to interest
rates shifts on competing international credit lines. The Bank loan was
also at a fixed rate, which was the standard practice until 1981, when the
Bank adopted a variable rate in response to the volatility of international
interest rates since the late 1970s. Fifth, this loan, together with other
foreign loans to Peru, helped to relieve the scarcity of term financing.
By not linking the loan to policy reforms conducive to greater resource
mobilization such as positive interest rates, the loan may have contributed
to perpetuate this scarcity.
E.       Project Implementation
16.      The loan was approved on January 28, 1977, and declared effective
on March 30. There were no delays in effectiveness, since the only
condition of effectiveness was the establislu;.ent of the Project Development
Fund (PDF) by COFIDE. The actual implementat;.n of the loan, however, took
longer than planned, so that the original final date for submission of
subprojects of 30/06/79 had to be extended tw.ice, until 30/09/81. The loan
was closed on June 30, 1983, one year and nine months later than agreed in
the Loan Agreement.
17.      Actual disbursements after the first two years amounted to only
US$4.1 million, about 20Z of the appraisal estimate. The economic
recession of 1977-1979, together with high liflation rates, caused a slackening
in investment demand. The Bank found that ctner factors contributing to
the low demand for the loan funds were: (i) the reluctance of investors to
assume the full foreign exchange risk during d period of high inflation and
fast devaluation; (ii) the availability of competing credit lines
denominated in dollars at lower interest raves than the Bank loan, both
within COFIDE (from Corporacion Andina de FcG.ento, the US Eximbank, and
others) and in other financial intermediaries (e.g. an IDB dollar
denominated credit line through Banco Industrial del Peru, with an interest
rate of 1OZ to final borrowers); and (iii) tne private sector's perception
of COFIDE as a bureaucratic institution geared towards public sector firms.
The Bank also felt that COFIDE did not promote the line sufficiently.
18.      Commitments and disbursements acceler-ated substantially in late
1979, partly as a result of COFIDE's new or.enLation towards the private



L, . 1 , . ,, * 1, , .,. .               . .           A      I   W                     o   .._.   ,S.
-6-
sector and a recovery in export-related activities. Other contributory
factors were the exhaustion of alternative sources of foreign resources and
the substantial increase in world interest rates, that made the Bank loan
more competitive. In early 1978, COFIDE had intensified its promotional
efforts tSo-ounteract the slack in investment demand. It had also
introduced a mechanism to permit private financial intermediaries to
collaborate in generating, evaluating aid processing investment projects,
in return for a service charge. In these cases COFIDE made the loans with
a guarantee from the financial intermediary. These measures paid off when
the economy experienced a mild recovery in 1979. A further element that
helped-to increase commitments was the Bank Board's approval, in March
1979, of a special disbursement procedure for DFC loans, providing 501 of
each disbursement in US dollars. By August 1981, commitments had been
completed and disbursements had reached US$25.6 million. About 66Z of
total commitments took place in just two years; but to disburse the rest of
the loan took an additional one and a half years. When the loan was closed
in June 1983, US$2.9 million was cancelled of the original US$35 million
loan.
F.       Proiect Results.-
19.      Statistics on subloans are shown in.Annex 3.  Under the loan
COFIDE financed 78 subprojects, including 15 above the free limit of
US$500,000; eight of them above US$1.0 million. The average size of the
subloan was US$350,000. About 30% of the loans were for new projects, the
rest financed expansion or modernization of existing coL anies. Seven
subloans, amounting to 221 of the loan went to state ente-prises. The
average size of the loans to state enterprises was over Ua$1.0 million,
compared to US$350,000 for private f rms. Despite the Government's
decentralization objectives, the bulx of the loan (52Z) went to projects
located in Lima. Projects in two subsectors: chemicals and textiles
received nearly 302 of the loan. Six enterprises received two loans each
for a total of US$6.9 million equivalent. There is no information on the
evolution of arrears under this loan. However, the available information
shows that by December 1984, 16 subloans comprising 40S of subloan amounts
under this line were in arrears.
20.      It is doubtful whether the loan succeeded in its objective of
improving industrial efficiency and promoting-exports, since the bulk of
commitments took place during 1979-1981., a period characterized in Peru by
macroeconomic instability, declining terms of trade and growing
overvaluation of the exchange rate, and by recession abroad. Moreover, a
significant part of the loan (22Z) went to state owned en erprises, less
likely than private ones to be managed with efficiency criteria.
21.      However, the most critical shortcoming of the loan was probably
its failure to improve COFIDE's effectiveness as a development bank,
strengthening its resource mobilization and allocation capacity. During
the life of the loan, over 95% of COFIDE's resources came from external
sources. Offering negative interest rates in real terms, COFIDE's efforts
to mobilize local resources through bond issues met with limited success,
although they represented 76X of the resources mobilized locally - the rest
was in the form of capital contributions from the Government. Between 1977
and 1982, the period of easy access to petrodollars, COFIDE was able to
mobilize US$3.1 billion in foreign resources, mostly from commercial banks



and supplier's credits -- 17 percent (US$525 million) came from
international organizations, including two Ba,k loans. After the onset of
the international debt crisis, foreign financ'.ng for COFIDE plummeted.  In
1983 and 1984, foreign loans to COFIDE amounted to less than 25Z of the
financing obtained in 1981 and 1982. With tae 1983 crisis, local resource
mobilization also dried up.
22.      Another important objective of the ,oan was to improve COFIDE's
project evaluation capability and through it improve the government's
investment decisions. Except for some disagreements about methodological
details, standardization and quality control, Bank supervision missions
found COFIDE's project evaluations satisfactory. It is interesting that
under a subsequent operation the Bank felt the need to add a technical
assistance component to improve COFIDE's project evaluation capacity. It is
unlikely that economic criteria was consistxitly applied by COFIDE in the
financing of state enterprises, with resourcee from other lenders, which
represented the bulk of its loan portfolio dur..ng the life of the loan. By
1983, many of these enterprises had ceased to repay their loans.
G.       Praject Sustainability
23.      By the time the loan was closed, in 1983, the Bank had already
approved two other loans: a follow on loan c-f US$60 million (Loan 1968-PE)
and a US$26 million loan for small and medium enterprises (Loan 2064-PE).
These funds allowed COFIDE to continue its c7erations when external
resources began to dry up in 1983. However, uinable to mobilize local
resources, COFIDE's level of operations contiltued at a very low level,
based on relending the funds collected from its clients instead of repaying
its external debt. Meanwhile, continued fina-cial repression, including
highly negative interest rates, contributed v.c. prolong the scarcity of term
credit in Peru. The expected benefits of the project are, therefore, not
being sustained.
H.       Bank Performance
24.      During preparation and appraisal, Bank staff worked with COFIDE on
a comprehensive Policy Statement focussing ox COFIDE's development banking
functions and a separate Statement of Operations, Policies and Procedures
for the Development Fund, designed to isolat. the loan from COFIDE's role
as a holding for public sector firms and safeguard the Fund's operational
autonomy, ensure adequate evaluation standatds and promote financial
soundness.  The Bank was overly optimistic abDut the capacity of these
agreements to safeguard the independence of the institution from political
influence on its lending decisions.
25.      The Bank made a considerable supervision effort with this loan:
eleven supervision missions between 1977 and 1984 and a total of 51 staff
weeks devoted to loan supervision. Supervision. missions paid close
attention not only to the causes of slow loan utilization, but also to the
quality of COFIDE's project approval and sunervislon procedures. COFIDE's
financial situation became a focus of Bank supervision in 1983, when
COFIDE's financial situation had seriously detAriorated. In the course of
this supervision effort, the Bank made recomnv.oidations to COFIDE and the



Government about the need to increase interest rates and establish a loan
indexing system in view of increasing inflation. The Bank also
recommended, on repeated occasions, that COFIDE discuss with the Government
the possibility that the Government would ta;;e the cross-currency risk,
charging a fee to COFIDE. Having selected an intermediary with a clear
mandate to finance and own public enterprises, the Bank tried throughout
the life of the loan to convince COFIDE, with little success, to separate
its ownership function from its lending activ.4ties and to reorient its
lending towards the private sector.
26.      The strategy for COFIDE of the civilian Government that took
office in mid-1980, was more compatible with the Bank views and the Bank
responded positively to a request for additional loans to COFIDE. Two new
loans were appraised in 1981: a Second Industrial Credit (Loan 1968-PE)
that would support COFIDE's reorganization Knd divestiture of its equit)
holdings; and a Small Scale Enterprise Loan (H.oan 2064-PE) in which COFIDE
would act as the apex for loans disbursed through private financial
institutions. The opportunity to support lo-.g awaited institutional
changes in COFIDE probably obscured the fact that preparation and appraisal
of these loans coincided with a period of mounting financial difficulties
for COFIDE due to its excessive lending to public enterprises, and the
erosion of its equity base as a result of continued inflation.
27.      This project demonstrates important lessons for the design and
supervision during an unstable macroeconomic situation of credit projects
in which Bank lending is intermediated by a D!Lblic institution. Several of
these lessons have by now been discussed widely within the Bank (see the
deport of the Financial Sector Operation's Task Force issued in August
1989).
28.      First, this loan shows how difficul: it is to convert a public
entity, which combines the roles of owner anr lender to public enterprises,
into an effective financial intermediary with proper financial discipline
and independence from political influence. 'his loan also shows the
mistake of expecting that .he use of project ovaluation techniques for Bank
financed subloans would improve investment de. Lsion making by Government
agencies, which is frequently based on conside:ations other than
efficiency. Even if supervision efforts succeeded in limiting political
influences in Bank financed projects, the ro'e of COFIDE as financial agent
and owner of public enterprises contributed to the deterioration of
COFIDE's overall portfolio, which became increasingly concentrated on a few
public enterprises unable to pay back their loans. The Bank should have
understood the unavoidable conflict of using COFIDE as direct lender and
use it only as a second-tier bank to retail tne loan through private banks.
However, the Bank was not alone in selecting COFIDE as financial
intermediary; other international financial institutions provided
substantial amounts of foreign resources to COFIDE. These loans eventually
contributed to increase Peru's external debt.
29.      Second, this loan shows the futilit"' cf supporting with Bank loans
half-measures of economic liberalization in the hope that additional
liberalization steps would be taken during loan implementation.   In
providing this loan, the Bank tried to suppolt a new Government that
proposed to relax some of the pervasive conl:r.Ls on trade and industry
imposed by the military revolution. However, 1.he liberalization measures



- 9 -
were not far reaching: the Government maintained an important role in
ownership of basic industries through COFIDE; interest rates were
administratively fixed and highly negative; end public credit was directed
through a complex system of priorities.
I.       Borrower's Performance
30.      Institutional Development.  COFIDE's operations have been
dominated by its mandate to coordinate and guarantee the financing of state
enterprises, including the holding of shares of some of them. In 1975,
when the loan was appraised, about 95Z of its portfo3io operations were
quasi-fiscal operations in nature (45X of COFIDE's approved operations were
as agent of the state and 952 of operations ap?roved on its own account
were with state enterprises). In 1977, COFIDE's shares in four major state
manufacturing and tourism enterprises were transferred to the Government,
reducing COFIDE's responsibility to that of Lolding the shares in custody.
However, a number of nationalized basic industcies were allocated to
COFIDE. By 1980 a large proportion of COFIDE's resources were still frozen
in these equity holdings (36% of COFIDEts total assets were held in thirteen
companies). Moreover, 302 of the loans outstanding and 50Z of the
guarantees issued on COFIDE's own account weie to state enterprises. The
role of COFIDE changed little during the life of the loan. In 1982, before
lack of funds drastically reduced COFIDE's operations, 86% of its approved
operations were quasi-fiscal in nature (57Z of operations were on behalf of
the Government and 762 of the operation on its own account were with state
enterprises),
31.      Changes in the country's economic pclicies at the end of the
1970's, including reduced prospects for social property and public sector
participation, reduced the priority attributed to COFIDE by the Government.
Political weakness translated into weak and su.qrt lived Boards and
management teams (four in two years), unable to provide the necessary
leadership to an otherwise able body of professionals. According to a Bank
supervision report, this situation had left COFIDE with unclear objectives
and a number of problems that included lack Gf coordination among the
institution's major operating divisions, insufficient promotion and
identification of private sector projects anu somewhat lengthy and
bur aucratic procedures for evaluation and processing of projects.
32.      COFIDE was reorganized in late 1979 and a new Statement of
Policies and Procedures was issued. COFIDE wss again reorganized at the
end of 1980 with the creation of the Financial Intermediation Division,
which took charge of the operation of COFIDE's foreign credit lines as well
as of several Special Funds previously managed by the Central Bank; a new
Promotion Division; and a new Credits Divisiot. for project evaluation and
supervision. In 1981, the new civilian Government reassessed the
fundamental role or COFIDE and reorganized it separating its lending
function from its hole Ag of public sector enterprises, with the support of
a follow on Bank loan. The Corporacion Nacional de Desarrollo (CONADE) was
created as a holding company for COFIDE S.A. End INVERSIONES COFIDE S.A.
(ICSA). The first, to cont4aue lending operations and the latter to hold
the investments portfolio, including the basic industries. The transfer of
equity holdings to ICSA was on the basis of . loar. of about US$100 million
from COFIDE to ICSA (85Z of COFIDE's capital) that wou!A be repaid from the



- 10 -
sale of these firms to the private sector. -{cwever, the expected
reorientation of COFIDE's operations towards the private sector did not
materialize: in the next two years COFIDE's lending was dominated by loans
to public sector enterprises with private attributes (PPs). Loans to the
private sector declined by an average of 122 per annum while COFIDE's
exposure with public enterprises reached over 852 of its total exposure.
On the other hand, the Government's ambiguous position with respect to
privatization made ICSA unable to sell any of its companies and to service
its debt to COFIDE.
33.      Financial Performance.  Financial i.nformation on COFIDE between
1976 and 1983 is presented in Annexes 4 to 6.  The historical information
on balance sheets and income statements is not comparable because several
auditors used different criteria to define and calculate the accounts.  The
financial ratios were calculated by COFIDE and differ from the audited
accounts. An analysis of COFIDE's financial position in 1977, when the
loan became effective, showed that COFIDE's profits as a percentage of
total assets were low, even in nominal terms mnd had decreased steadily
over the previous four years to 0.4 in 1976 and a return on average equity
of 1Z. This was partly the result of negative interest rates on its local
currency loans. The attendant erosion of its equity had been partly
compensated by the appreciation of its equity holdings. In mid-1978 and
early 1979, the government increased interest rates from about 16% to 35%,
still well below inflation that was running at 60Z per annum. COFIDE's
profitability increased in 1978, but in a sit.uation of rapid inflation it
was unable to maintain the real value of equ:-:;.  As a result, COFIDE
exceeded the legal maximum debt/equity ratio uinder the loan and required
several capital contributions from the Government. COFIDE was able to show
increased net profits as percentage of averaEe equity during 1980 and 1981
due to higher interest rates in local curren,-: loans (interest rates became
positive in January 1981, although unable to .:b.arge interest payments in
advance, COFIDE's rates remained lower than tnose of other financial
institutions) and exchange gains caused by the rapid depreciation of the
Sol. COFIDE was also able to maintain the resl value of its capital
through periodic re-evaluations of its equitv investments. This allowed
COFIDE to keep its debt/equity ratio within --he limits established in the
legal agreements.
34.      At the time the loan became fully committed, in 1982, COFIDE
experienced a substantial decline in the real value of its Sol based
assets. To prevent further resource decline and in order to meet the
demand for credit of PPs, COFIDE expanded its foreign credit lines by US$60
to US$70 million, mainly through short term borrowing. By August 1982, two
thirds of its liabilities were hard currency. more than one third of which
was short-term debt. Nearly 75% of this amo-nc had been contracted to meet
the investing needs of PPs and public agencies. In 1981 and 1982, lending
to the private sector contracted by 12Z per annum. COFIDE's Sol based
capital structure deteriorated under the force of inflation and the rapid
growth of its dollar based liability structure. Between November 1981 and
November 1982, COFIDE lost 87Z of its capita_ value
35.      By loan closing, in mid-1983, COFI.!'s financial situation became
critical as foreign financing had been drasra.ally cut, public enterprises
were unable to meet their obligations to CO:YT)E and the Government was slow
in reimbursing COFIDE for payments it had m.J: on Government's behalf.
COFIDE's major borrower, Electro-Peru was unable to service its US$50



million loan. Lending to this company acco-u ted for 50% of COFIDE's total
lending, and its outstanding loan and guaravtke portfolio was equal to
90Z of COFIDE's paid in capital and reserves, !.n violation of COFIDE's
policy of restricting its lending to any sinL'e company to not more than
20% of its capital and reserves. COFIDE's financial problems eased
temporarily later in the year when Peru was .:ble to refinance it foreign
debt.
36.      It is difficult to analyze COFIDE's arrears situation because of
successive refinancing of many of its loans and because its reporting
system did not permit a detailed analysis of age of arrears, the
development of arrears over time, or the relationship between arrears and
total outstanding portfolio for the various categories of loans. The
available information shows a steady increase in arrears as percentage of
outstanding portfolio from 5% in 1978 to 10 inL 1981. During this time,
the bulk of the arrears was concentrated in ioans to a handful of
companies.  By 1984, however, arrears (princ;pil and interest) had climbed
to 28Z of outstanding portfolio, whereas over OZ of the portfolio was
affected by arrears.
J.       Project Relationship
37.      The project period covered seven year; and both the Bank's project
officers and COFIDE's management changed several times. These changes
affected continuity in project supervision.
K.       Project Documentation and Data
38.      During the life of the loan, COFIDE. produced a large number of
documents concerning its lending program, soutces and uses of funds,
resources applied, and foreign exchange coverage. COFIDE's main financial
statements were, however, inadequate for any cetailed financial analysis
purposes. They reflected essentially archaic accounting codes, record
keeping and procedures used.  No basic cost -.ta was available by lending
lines and it was impossible to determine the rtofitability of the several
components of COFIDE's lending activity. Also, COFIDE's voluminous
statements of loans in arrears presented figures that were not consolidated
in such a way as to permit detailed analysis. COFIDE used seven different
external auditors. A recurrent problem was the absence of any apparent
attempt to reconcile the differences between COFIDE's annual financial
reports (which according to some auditors did not follow standard
accounting practices) and the reports prese..ted by the auditors, or to
make compatible the criteria used by the different auditors.
39.      The data for the elaboration of this PCR was not readily available
in COFIDE. The information presented in th .s report on subborrowers and
loan amounts is based on the Bank's disbursement records and subprojects
files.



- 12 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.       Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title          Purpose                Approval      Status     Comments
Second Industrial  To support the          1981          Closed     The final closing
Credit Project      financing of                                    was 12/31/87,
Loan 1968-PE        manufacturing and                               two and a half years
tourism projects                                later than initially
through financial                               contemplated.
intermediaries                                  US$20.3 million of
having access to                                loan was cancelled.
Bank funds which
COFIDE would channel.
Also to support
modification of the
public sector
financial system.
Small Scale         To finance Small       1981          Closed     The final closing
Enterprise Project Scale Enterprise                                 was 12131/87,
Loan 2064-PE        through financial                               two years later
intermediaries,                                 than initially
which will discount                             contemplated.
their loans with the                            US$.75 million of
SSE unit within                                 the loan was
COFIDE.  US$750,000                             cancelled.
would be allocated
for technical
assistance to COFIDE's
staff and staff of
financial intermediaries.



- 13 -
2.       Project Timetable
Date            Date              Date
Item                 Planned         Revised            Actual
Identification
(Lending Program
Development Mission)         7/73                                7/73
Pre-Appraisal                 6/74                                6/74
Appraisal Mission            10/74                               10/74
Preparation of
Re-Appraisal                10/75                               10/75
Re-Appraisal Mission         12/75                               12/75
Loan Negotiations            11/76                               11/76
Board Approval            12/27/76                            12/27/76
Loan Signature             1/28/77                             1/28/77
Loan Effectiveness         1/28/77                             3/30/77
Loan Commitment
End Date                 6/30/79          12/31/80           9/30/81
Loan Closing               6/30/81           9/30/81
12/31/81
6/30/82           6/30/83
Cancellation                      -                 -          2/28/83
Comments:
The Bank suspended disbursements to Peru on May 5, 1987 based on Peru's
accrued non-payment of obligations to the Bank.



- 14 -
3.        Loan Disbursements  '
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS '00)
FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
Appraisal Estimate       8       21     29.6   36
Actual                   a        0.37   4.1   14.6   24.2   31.7   32.11
Actual as X of Estimate   0      2      14      41
Date of First Disbursement:                           11/04/77
Date of Last Disbursement:                             2/28/83
1/ US$2.91 million was cancelled from the original loan amount of US$35
million.



- 15 -
4.           Use  of  Bank  Resources
A. Staff Inputs
--------------------------------------------------------------------__------
Stage  of  Project  Cycle                                            Period                  Staff Weeks
(FY)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Through  Appraisal                                                   74-75                   98.0
Appraisal through Board Approval                                     76-77                   42.5
Board Approval Through Effectiveness                                 77                        4.4
Supervision                                                          77-85                   50.9
Project  Completion  Report                                          90                       6.0
------------------------------------------T-----TAL----------20-------.8----
TOTAL                                                                   201.8
------------------------------------------------------------.----__---------



- 16 -
4.          Use of Bank Resources  (cont'd)
B. Missions
Month/   Number of  No. Of    Staff        Dates of   Overall Project   Types of
Activity                   Year       Persona   Weeks      Weeks      Report      Status Rating      Problemss
Identification                7/73       2       2          4          8/16/73          -
Pre-Appraisal                 6/74       4        2         8         10/10/74           -
Appraisal                    10/74       3        3.8      11.4       12/17/74
Preparat'ioi of
Re-Appraisal                10/76       3       3          9         11/12/76
Re-Appraisal                 12/75       3        2         _         12/07/78
Subtotal                                                 38.4
Supervision                   6/77       2        2.4       4.8        6/10/77           1                 0
Supervision                  11/77       2         .8       1.6         1/3/78           2                 o
Supervisioti                  6/788      2        4         8          7/24/78           2                 o
Annual Update                 n/a        n/a   n/a        n/a          3/19/79           2                 o
Supervision                   8/79       2        2.8        6.6       8/31/79           2                 o
Supervision                  11/79       1         .8         .8      11/28/79           2                 o
Supervision                   3/80       1         .8         .8       3/21/80           1                 -
Annual Update                 n/a        n/a   n/a        n/.          8/08/80           1                 -
Supervision/Annual Update   2/81         1        1         1          3/08/81           1                 -
Supervision                   8/81       1         .4         .4       8/31/81           2                 -
Supervision                  10/817      1         .6         .6      11/20/81
Supervision                   2/829      2        1         2          3/04/82           1                 -
Supervision                   9/82       2        2         4         11/19/82           1                 -
Annual Update                 n/a        n/a   n/a        n/a          7/21/84
Subtotal                                                 29.6
TOTAL                                                    87.9
6/  f-financial;  m-managerial;  t-technical;  p-political;  o-other
6/ Supervision report indicates Return to HQ as 6/26/77, which is
erroneous.
7/  Combined follow-up of Loans 1368-PE and 1988-PE.  Estimated time on
each .6 week.  Missing Summary Sheet.
8/  Combined follow-up of Loans 1368-PE and 1968-PE.  Estimated time on
each 1 week. Missing Summary Sheet.



- 17 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
PERU
PROJSCT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1358-PE
COFIDE - SUBPROJECT PROFILE
(as of 5/05/90)
No.      2        Amount        Z
(USS' 000)
By Size of Subloan
Up to US$100,000                        21      27      1,319,586         4.1
US$100,001-US$250,000                   22      28      3,806,747        11.9
US$250,001-US$500,000                   20      26      7,779,986        24.4
US$500,001-US$1,000,000                  7       9      4,982,548        15.6
US$1,000,001-US$5,000,000                8      10     13,987,937        43.9
Total                                78    100.0   31,876,804       100.0
By Region
Arequipa                                  2       3        2,391,312       8
Chimbote                                  3       4        1,945,651       6
Cuzco                                     2       3          919,250       3
Huacho                                    1       1        2,947,841       9
Iquitos                                   2       3       1,161,567        4
La Selva                                  1       1          365,704       1
Lima                                     49      63      16,455,876       52
Pisco                                     3       4        1,547,108       5
Piura                                     2       3          263,778       1
Puno                                      1       1          125,63'.      0
Samanco                                   2       3        1,195,503       4
San Ignacio                               1       1          503,857       2
San Miguel                                1       1           54,447       0
Talara                                    1       1          224,802       1
Tumbes                                    1       1          441,800       1
Unknown                                   6       8        1,332,671       4
Total                                  78    100       31,876,804    100
By Sector
Basic Ind. & Nat'l Defense                1       1          260,581       1
Basic Metals                              5       6          415,162       1
Beverages                                 2       3          689,548       2
Cement                                    2       3        1,819,846       6
Chemicals                                 9      12        4,586,083      14
Clay & Pottery Products                   1       1          310,000       1
Electric Power                            1       1        1,053,787       3
Fish                                      8      10        2,759,066       9
Glass Products                            4       5        1,914,730       6
Iron & Steel                              1       1          441,070       1
Metal Products                            2       3        2,198,542       7



- 18 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
No.      Z        Amount        2
(USS'000)
By Sector (con't)
Mining                                    4       5       1,773,556        6
Other                                     1       1          175,505       1
Petroleum Derivatives                     1       1          224,802       1
Pharmaceuticals                           2       3          573,937       2
Photography                               1       1          180,716       1
Plastic Products                          5       6       2,683,436        8
Printing and Publishing                   3       4       1,114,708        3
Processed Food                            3       4          508,898       2
Rubber Products                           3       4          319,620       1
Shoes                                     6       8          638,805       2
Textiles                                  6       8       4,580,373       14
Wood Products                             5       6        2,451,500       8
Total                                  78    100       31,876,804    100
By Financing Purpose
New projects                             23      29      11,160,109       35.0
Expansion                                43      55      18,483,824       58.0
Modernization                            10      13        1,879,258       5.9
Unknown                                   2       3          353,613       1.0
Total                                 78    100.0    31,876,804    100.0
By Ownership
Private                                  71      91      24,708,331       77.5
Public                                    7       9       7,168,473       22.5
Total                                 78    100.0    31,876,804    100.0
Source:  Loan 1358-PE subproject files and LDS database.



- 19 -
Annex 2
PERU                                             Page 1 of 3
PROJECT JMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CR'nIT PROJECT
SUB-BORROWERS FINANCED BY TWO SUBPROJECTS UNDER LOAN 1368-PE
Loan 1                    Loan 2
Subproj.    Amount         Subproj.    Amount
Enterprise                               No.       Disbursed         No.       Disbursed      TOTAL
Cementos de Lima                         A-12      1,352,843         B-10        467,003   1,819,846
Fabrica de Tejidos la Union              A-13      1,233,120         B-4          83,187   1,316,307
Quimica Universal                        B-26        156,466         B-38         71,230      226,686
Envasadora de Conservas                  A-16      1,114,774         B-48         80,006   1,194,780
SIDERPERU (power & red. directa)         A-li        441,070         A-1i      1,063,787   1,494,867
PeruPlast                                B-8         472,616         B-44        418,000      890,816
TOTAL    4,789,878                   2,173,213   8,943,091



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 1360-PE
IBRD
Employ-      FRR         ERR    Financing         Status
Subproj. Enterprise                               Sector                       Purposes            ment      (X)         (%)    (USSOOO)  (as of Dec. 31, 1984)
No.
A-1      Maderms Inambari, EPS                    Wood Products                new                   98       21          13      649,788 arrears, leg. action
A-10     Aceros del Sur SA                        Metal Products               new                   72       22          25    2,106,042
A-1001   Plastimac SA                             Plastic Products             new                   34                 10.2    1,418,830
A-1002   Vidrios Industrials                      Glass Products               expansion                                  30      627,643
A-11     SIDERPERU (Red. Directa)                 Iron and Steel               expansion             37       17          18      441,070 arrears, being refin.
A-12     Cementos Lima                            Cement                       expansion                      21          19    1,352,843
A-13     Tejidos Ia Union                         Textiles                     expansion             85       19          20    1,233,120 arrears, beina refin.
A-14     Quimica del Prcifico                     Chemicals                    expansion             30       10          19    2,947,841
A-16     SIDERPERU (Power Generator)              Electric Power               expansion                                 28    1,063,787
A-13     Envasadora de Conservas SA               Fish                         new                 2200       33         22    1,114,774 arrears, new owners
A-2      El Chaupe EPS                            Wood Products                new                   80       21          13      603,867 arrears, being refin.
A-3      Ampolletas y Viales de Vidrio            Glass Products               new                   48       30          22      997,888
A-4      Forestal Amazonas                        Wood Products                new                   80       40          40      846,436 arrears, being refin.
A-6      Metal Trujillo EPS                       Metal Products               new                   91       26                   93,600
A-6      Fabrica do Mechas                        Mining                       expansion                                  12      492,124
A-7      CENTROMIN                                Mining                       expansion                      20          20      924,990
A-8      Textiles Amazonas                        Textiles                     expansion             74       12          12    2,761,900
A-9      Envasadors del Mar                       Fish                         new                  649       40          14      4686,500 arrears, neow owners
B-1      Industrial Maderera del Orient. Imosa  Wood Products                  modornization                                      238,288
8-10     Cementos Lima                            Cement                       modernization                                      467,003
9-1001   Servicios de Persona Lizacion Magnetic Printing and Publishing        modernization         14       26                  378,799
8-1002   Compania Industrial Textil SA -CITSA-  Textiles                       modernization                                       48,742
B-1003   Cables y Conductores de Cobre SA         Electrical Machinery         modernization         10                           148,086
B-1004   Industrial Vidrio Neutro SA              Glass Products               expansion            500                            61,484 arrears, leg. action
B-1008   Reencauchadora el Sol SA                 Rubber Products              new                   49                           246,640
B-1007   Templex SA                               Glass Products               new                   30     30.6                  228,037
8-1008   Reactivos Nacionales                     Chemicals                    expansion              4                           187,361
B-1009  MVnerales Santander                       Mining                       new                  522                           230,811
8-1010   Ampollas Farmaceuticas-AMFA              Pharmaceuticals              expans;on             47                           373,937
8-1012   Max Nieto SA                             Shoes                        expansion             20                            21,336
B-11     Natrogels                                Chemicals                    new                   46                           632,269 arrears, new owners
B-12     Inversiones Nueva York                   Fish                         new                  184                           441,800 arrears, new owners
B-14     Minsur SA                                Mining                       expansion             16                           125,631 arrears, being refin.
8-16     Isosanplast SA                           Chemicals                    new                   40                            70,740
9-16     Frigomar                                 Fish                         neow                                      18       425,384 arrears, leg. action
9-17     Novo Plast Industria LTDA                Plastic Products             neow                  35                           225,647
B-1     Calzado Duramil del Peru                 Shoes                        expansion             20                           149,979
8-19     Calzado Andino                           Shoes                        expansion             10                            69,222
B-20     Industrial Cacer                         Plastic Products             expansion             12                           436,871
B-21     Cerverceria San Juan                     Beverages                    expansion             20                           386,704
B-22     PanAm Peru                               Shoes                        modernization          0                           102,400
0I,



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 1350-PE
IBRD
Employ-      FRR        ERR    Financing        Status
Subproj. Enterprise                             Sector                      Purposes           ment      (X)        (X)    (USS000)  (as of Dec. 31, 1984)
No.
_________________________________________________________________________________________- -__--__--_____----      ____ - - ______________________________
8-23     Industria Metalurgica Nacional         Basic Metals                expansion                                         93,799
8-24     Corporacion Commercial                 Fish                        new                 470                           80,735
8-26     Quimica Universal                      Chemicals                   expansion            12                          156,455
B-28     CIA Nacional de Cerveza SA             Beverages                   modernization       900                          323,844
8-28     CIA Oleaginoss Pisco                   Other                       expansion            76                          176,505
B-29     Industria Portofino                    Shoes                       new                           16                 230,000
8-3      Manufacturas Metalicas Jospel SA       Basic Metals                expansion                                        113,015
B-30     Michell A CIA SA                       Textiles                    expansion            17                          286,270
B-31     Rayon y Celanese Peruana               Textiles                    expansion          1010                           88,400
B-32     Cauchos Sinteticos                     Rubber Products             expansion                                         36,880
8-33     SIDERURGICA del Peru                   Basic Ind. A Nat'l Defense  expansion                                        280,581
B-36     Industrial Punchans                    Wood Products               expansion           274                          316,132 arrears, leg. action
B-36     Promociones Petroleras Talar& SA       Petroleum Derivatives       expansion            19                          224,802
B-37     Capelladas SA                          Shoes                       expansion            s0                           76,889
B-38     Quimica Univeral                       Chemicals                   expansion                                         71,230
B-4      Fabrics de Tejidos la Union LTDA       Chemicals                   new                                      46       83,187
B-40     Envasadora San Eduardo SA              Fish                        new                                               38,714
8-42     Alimen Conserveros del Norte SA        Fish                        new                1700                          111,173 arrears, new owners
B-43     Qumice Central So                      Chemicals                   new                   5                          120,000 arrears, leg. action
8-44     Peruplast SA                           Chemicals                   expansion                                        418,000
8-46     Fundicion Ventanilla SA                Basic Metals                modernizaticn                                     38,660
0-46     Reprox SA                              Photography                 expansion            20                          180,716
B-47     Iberia SA del Offset                   Printing and Publishing    expansion             10                          434,296
B-48     Envasadora de Conserves SA             Fish                        *xpansion           650                           80,006
B-49     Jorge Reyna Ullos SA                   Rubber Products             expansion            16                           38,200 arrears, leg. action
B-6      Industris Textil PIURA                 Textiles                    expansion                                        163,941
B-50     Ladrillera Huachips                    Clay and Pottery Products   expansion                                        310,000
8-51     Lab. Biomont SA                        Pharmaceuticals             expansion            10                          200,000
8-52     Formas Continues y Derivados SA        Printing and Publishing                           8                          303,613
8-53     Ind Electroquimica SA                  Electrical Machinery        expansion                                         54,447
B-64     Tecnics Comercial Peruans SA           Plastic Products            expansion            10                          130,772 being *efinanced
B-65     Ind. Metalurgics Nacional SA           Basic Metals                exapansion            6                           60,000 arrears, being refin.
B-67     Fundision Ventalle SA                  Basic Metals                expansion            s0                          121,688
B-58     Hugo Barberis SA                       Processed Food              expansion            66                          369,462 arrears, being refin.
B-6      Nicolini Hnoc                          Processed Food              modernization                                     39,599
B-7      Companis Molinera del Peru             Processed Food              modernization                                     99,837
B-8      Peru Plast                             Plastic Products            expansion                                        472,616
TOTALS:  No. of Subprojects = 78       Additional Emp. = 10,481    Cost per Job _ USS1,S21     IRDB Tnt. Fin.    31,876,804
Source:  LAC Subproject Files Loan 1368-PE amd World Bank LDS                                                                                               X
0
'-i



- 22 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
PqOJUC C0W'.ZSN aEPy
frQLGTh AL CPrZT PRO.jEi - 0OM 1338-PE
CoeV   - COwmAntE 8ALAwEA 94EE$.  O9O6R 31. 1981 * OEMC8   31l  1988
:975         :976          197?         1978          1979           1980
A   d I t *
ASSETS
Surrent
Cash and bank balances                                                     195.4        '28.1         946.2      2.5,0.9       ,.505.2        8.606.2
Interest receivable and other current assets   gross                      553.1       1.18l.0      2,550.5       7,2'6.1      6,035.1        10,162.:
Leos: Provtsions                                                          (5.3)      (354.4)      (806.9)   (2,047.5)   (2.106.3)          (3,332. ')
!bt Interest and other current * elte                                      547.8        826.6       _.741.7      5198.6       3.928.0         6.629.5
Net current assets                                                       743.2      1,554.7      2,687.9       7,'69.5      1L,434.0       (5.435.7
PortfolLo
Loan portfolio - gross                                                 12,102.3    24.209.6       38.636.5    52,522.2    50,265.8           80.654.0
Lese: Provisions                                                         (52.9)       (70.8)       (554.0)   (l.532.0)   (4,7U.0)          (2,033.63
Loan portfolio - net                                                   12,049.4    24,138.8    36,082.5    50,990.2    45,554.8              78,620.4
Invest_nt portfolLo - gross                                             3,284.3       4,358.3       7,922.9    14,624.8    38,174.5          65.920.0
Lese: Provtilona                                                         (26.9)       (65.1)       (173.5)      (201.8)      (402.8)       (1,349.1)
:nvesacnt Portfole - eet                                                3.257.4       4,293.2    '.7. 9.L     14,423.0    37.771.7           64.571.6
4et Loan and equity portfolio                                        15.306.8    28,432.0    45.831.9    65,413.2    83,326.5             143.192.0
2thsr Assets
Studie" - net                                                               43.5         47.3          89.3         83.7          72.3            70.8
Fixed assets - nec                                                          30.4         53.0          77.1        146.1         252.9           437.8
Other asets                                                                 27.1          56.6        215.8         158.$         98.0         I.438.1
Subtot                                                                   111.0        156.9         382.2        388.6         423.2         1,946.7
TOTA.L ASSETS                                                        16.161.0    30.143.6    .-8.902.0        73.571.3    95.l83.7            ,
LLIILLUMES AND EQUtTy
Cutrent Liabilities
Accounts payable                                                            58.2         L35.0        232.3       1,6".6       1,183.6          3.421.6
Interest and cosmaslons payable                                            391.2        657.8       1,213.2      2,408.8       2,922.6         5,118.4
taxes end social security payable                                           Z8.3          94.9        167.9         401.2        712.6          1,105.6
Provision for staff composation                                             t'..8         19.4         31.0          39.9      .  50.4      S      83.
Total current liabillties                                                488.5        907.1       1,644.4      4,494.1      %.869.2          9,731.3
Long-term LIAUilitIeS
Foreign .urrency loAns                                                  5.e83.3    10,955.9    24,578.1    35,349.1    29,471.2                42,.t332
Loans fcre Banto Central de Reservas                                        -            -          5,487.0      7,387.0       9.936.5
3ther local zurrency borrowings                                         4,495.8        j                                       9255.5  ;897.:  9,287.6  t 3.
Total long-term  liabilities                                         1C,369.:    20.795.6    34,320.6    a7,633.3    48,695.3
Farelsn  Ex ance xcn1a                                                        .8.6                      ...  3 -  :   27.2
Eqc4itv
;hare   p:ital                                                          5,047.0       39J.33      :0.:52.3    :6.060.9    23.712.8
Revaluation *urplIua                                                        -            23..        ,:74.5         2,841.5   1..6;7.          30.355.
Technical reserve                                                           64.2         98.9           5.0           5.0         Z9.0             "37.4
P Retained earniUs                                                           143.5         239.0        505.2       1,309.3      3.-1C              e,2
Total Iqulty                                                          5,254.7       3.393.0     ! .93 .0    20.216.7    41.619.1             67.-6
TOTAL LIABILITUS AN  ZQUnT!                                         _16,161.0      30.143.6      8.902.0    73.571.3    9583.
.uarantses oa ran Account                                                  3,353.4      9. 7.9    33.-69.0    54,674.0    65,590.0              tI:.C83.^
RATIOS
rttl Liabilitis  2I /equity                                                  2.7:1         3.8:1        5.4:1         5.3:1        2.9:1             3.3
Long-term liabltItie       /equity                                           2.6:1         3.6:1        5.2:1         5.;:1         .,;1             :.9:1
Current ratio                                                                1.5:1         1.7:;1        1.6:1        1.7:1        :.3:1             :.6:1
Provistio      /loan and equity portfolio    'S)                               0.5           1.6           3.1          5.1           7.6               .3
Note: i,a eav not add up due to rounding.
*e0t-- The CNis   8ionesti.s qsc  Sheo   t tSho . weD*  e te%s' f!O  S. SAR of 2064-Ul.
r,,                         '   '     '   v:w.  .     '~~~ .    ?                         :_- ..



PROJFCT C(lMPLETION RFF'ORT
INDUSIRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1358 PE
COFIDE - COMPARATIVE bAtAlCE SKETS, DECEMBER 31, 1981 - DECEI4FR 31. 1988
(mrIlions of Intis)
1981 a/       1982         1983        1984         1985         1986        1987         1988
ASSETS
Current Aoset.
Cash and Banks                                       8.2         11.7        30.6         50.o       263.3        667.5      1,146.3    16,586.6
Negotiable Investments                               4.2          4.3         2.6         10.6            -           -            -
Curr,nt Loans                                       67.7        144.5       361.3        936.6      1,807.7     1,962.3      7,041.6    63,008.3
Interest. Cosmissions and
Dividends Ro.ei,able                               11.3        37.0        131.3        452.6            -           -            -      (257.8)
Provs;ions for Doubtful Receivables                    -         (9.6)      (33.7)      (107.6)      (341.3)     (367.0)   (1,397.6)  (38,276.7)
Accounts Receivable from Affli;tes                     -            -        14.5         21.4
Other Current A-sets                                 1.4          5.7         5.5         11.6            -           -            -           -
Sub-total                                     92.8       193 6        512.1      1,375.2     1,729.7     2,262.8      6,790.3    41,060.4
Accountm Receivable from Afflistes (not eurr            -            -       178.3        379.1      1,047.0         2.7          4.5
Portfol io Investents
Equity Investments (less provisions)                10 9         52.3        32.3         35 2        72 0      1,754 5     3,241.4      5,936 1
Long-term toans (less provisions)                  186 9        348.4       565 0      1,139.9     2,711.5      2,531.7     6,957 7    43,381.8
Sub-total                                    197.8       400.7        597 3      1,175.1     2.783 5     4.286 2    10,199.1    49,317 9
Fi.ed Assets (not of depreciation)                    0 6          1.6         3.0          6.8         12.5        18.1        38.3        727.0
Oth-r Assets                                          1.8          3.0         4.1          9.4     1,920.3      2,196.0     7,701.3    23,276.0
TOTAL ASSETS                                 293.0       598.9      1,294.8     2,944.6      7,493.0     8,765.8    24,733.5   114,381.3
LIABILITIES AND EQITY
Currant Liabilities 
Accounts Payable                                     1.4          1.8        13.0         25.2            -           -            -           -
Bank Loans. Bonds, Certificetes
of Deposits                                        53.1        131.6       329.0        904.5     1,599.5      1,713.4     6,756.7    39,901.6
Interest. Commissions and
Dividends Payable                                  10.9         28.8        73.4        215.9            -           -            -
Other Payable*                                       4.3          5.2                                               4.3         5.2
Sub-total                                     69.7       167.4        415.4     1,145.6      1,599.5      1,717.7     5,761.9    39,901.6
Long-tore Liabilities
Bank Loans. 8Onds, Certificates
'f Deposits                                      125.5        276.9       641.6      1,313.0     2,797.4      3,503.4     8,691.2    47,735.4
Re, --cs in Administration                           1.2          7.2         2.7         17.2        76.6         65.0       121.0      1,707.0
Provii;ons for Social Benefits
and Other                                           0.1         0.1          1 9          2.2         4 6          5.3        32.0         89.0
Sub-total                                      1.3         7.3          4.6         19.4        81.2         70 3       153 0     1,796.0
Other Liabilities                                     0.2         0.2          0.3          5.4     1,814.9      1,998.7     7,136.3    20,004.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES                            196.7       431.8      1,061.9     2,483.4      6,293.0      7,290. 1   21,742.4   109,437.2
Equ i ty
Capital                                             79.7         88 7        97.9        106.1        110.5       127.8       274.6      1,223.8
Reserves                                            10.8         48.5       126.0        349.7      1,063.3     1,317.2     2,544.8      2,467 7
Revaluation Account                                  0.4          0.5         1.4          2.6         7.6          1.5         8.9        765.6
Retained Earnings                                    3.4          9.4         7.6          2.8         18.6        43.5        168.0       487.0
Sub-total                                     96.3       147.1        232.9       461.2      1,200.0      1,490.0     2,996.3     4,944.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQ3JITY                293.0       598.9      1,294.8     2,944.6      7,493.0     8,780.1   24,738.7   114,381.3
a/  COFIDE implemented a no. system of accounting during 1981 which did not permit the independent auditors
to esparate the current assets and liabilities from that of th- long-term.  The mudit report doss not reflect this problem in the balance sheet.                                      :O
M (D
sNote--  Minor discrepancies due to rounding.                                                                                                                                              X
seNote-- Data is based on the following independent auditors for the corresponding year(s) indicated:                                                                                  T
1980/81  Odia Picasso, Tu-sto y Asociados                                                                                                                                        L.
1982-84  Benjamin Callirgos y Asociados                                                                                                                                       0
1985-87  Rodolfo Retarvzo y Asociadom                                                                                                                                         -1
1988     Alejandro Tuesta y Asociados
Although differenat audtors folloaed d,fferent definitions in their reports an effort wsa  ade to standardize the pre..ntat.on of the
drffrere,t accounts for the purposes of Ce-ntructing a comparative balance sh-t table over the l,f- of the loan.  7herefor*,  t is
necessary to interpret th., table with cautron



- 24 -
ANNEX 4
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1358-PE
COFIDE - INCOME STAT4MENTS: 1976-1983
(in 1,000's of Inti-)
1976         1977        1978        1979        1980         1981        1982        1983
INCOME
Income on Loans
(interest and commissions)            2,003.8      3,812.3      6,702.3     9.387.5   12,036.0    27,566.0   70,725.02  167,189.0
Other Guarantee Commi-sions
and Service Fees                                      219.4       404.3       700.9       912.1      1,813.0     7,748.0   21,752.0
Interest on Bonds
and Deposit*                              11.8         94.0       179.1       970.7     1,993.7     5,339.0
Dividends on Invevtmont
Portfol io                               59.2         248.2     1,395.5     1,232.8     1,283.7     2,702.0      4,778.0     3,423.0
Forsign Echange Gains                                                         1,885.8     2,520.6     3,751.0
Other Income                               22 4          52.6        69.        567.6     1317,5       2.472.0   10&26.0   27.168.0
TOTAL INCOME                          2.097.2       4.426.6     8.750.5   14.745.3    20.063.7   43.643.0   93.877.0   219-532.0
EXPENDrTURES
Interest and Co_m;eiions on
Borrovings                             1,131.1      2,324.8     4,289.4     7,072.0   12,250.5   27,138.0    62,781.0  138,454.0
Administrative Eupense.                    289.6        345.0       490.5       862.4      1,898.8     4,233.0     7,242.0    14,193.0
Exchange Losses                                                     210.3
Other Epenses                                                                                                        606.0     1,106.r
TOTAL D(PENDITURES                     1.420.7       .669.8     4.990.2     7.934.3   14.149.3    31.371.0   70,629.0   153.753.0
Profit before Ta. and Provisions           676.4      1,756.7     3,760.3    6,811.0      5,914.4    12,272.0   23,248.0   65,779.0
Provisions                                491.0       1,171.1     2,315.5     3,488.9     1.997.3      4,638.0   10,089.0   53,622.0
P.-ofit before Tax                         185.         585.6     1,444.8     3,322.1     3,917.1      7,634.0    13,159.0    12,157.0
To. on Not Worth                           121.8        217.9       426.0       844.6      1.361.7     1,944.0     2,935.0     4,582.0
Tax on Income                                            84.7       150.5       202.6        102.1        74.0       641.0
NET PROFIT AFTSR TAXES                    63.6        283.0       868.3    2,274.9      2,453.3      5,616.0     9,583.0     7,575.0
.Note    Discrepancies in decimale due to rounding.
ewNote-- 1976     sell y Co.
1977     Alonso Castro y Asocisdoz
1978/79  Pierrend Contodores Publicos Aocicadoe
1980/81  Odin Picasso. Tuesta y Asociados
1982-83  Benjamin Callirgoo y Asoci*dos



- 25 -
ANNEX 5
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 13S8-PE
COFIDE - FINANCIAL RATIOS:  1977-1983
1977    1978    1979    1980      1981    1982    1983
Debt to Equity - Loan Agreement
Section 4.06                         6      5         6       6         6       6       6
Debt to Equity'                           5.4    5.2       6.2     2.9       3.8     4.6      8.2
Current Assets to current Liabilities  n/a    n/.          6.8     2.0       1.3     1.8      1.2
Profits before Taxes as X of
Average Total Ass-ts               n/a    n/.         2.9     2.0       2.4     2.3     0.8
Return on Equity                        n/a    n/a         5.6      3.7      5.8     6.6      3.3
Administrative Expenses as X of
Average Total Assets               n/.    n/a         1.0     1.6       1.8     1.4     1.5
Financial Incowe (Net of
financial costs) as X of
Average Loan Portfolio             n/a    n/a        26.6    16.0      13.9    10.9    11.4
Arrears as X of
Total Portfolio                      4.1    6.1       6.7   n/a        10.1   n/a     n/a
Comment: COFIDE calculated these ratios based on its own accounting records. They do not
necessarily reflect the independently audited balance sheet figures.
1/ Includes contingent liabilities.



