Report No. 1195b-PE
Peru: Appraisal of an Industrial Credit Project to
Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
December 7,1976                                    W.                        ,               *;
Projects Departrnent                                                                        J r
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recif
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sol de Oro (S/. )
Exchange Rates effective:
Up to September, 1975             Up to June, 1976                 Up to September, 1976 _i
US$1.00       = S/. 38.701/       US$1.00        = SI. 45.00        US$1.00       = S/. 65.00
US$1,000      = S/. 38,700        US$1,000       = S/. 45,000       US$1,000      = S/. 65,000
S/. 1.00      = US$0.0258         S/. 1.00       = US$0.0222        SI. 1.00   - = US$0.0154
S/. 1,000     = US$25.84          S/. 1,000      = US$22.22         S/. 1,000     = US$15.38
S/. 1,000,000 = US$25,839.79      S/. 1,000,000 = US$22,222,20    S/. 1,000,000 = US$15,384.61
A C R ON  Y M S
AID          -        Agency for International Development
ACM          -       Andean Common Market
BIP          -        Banco Industrial del Peru, Industrial Bank of Peru
CERTEX       -        Certificado Tributario de Exportacion
COFIDE       -        Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo, Development Finance
Corporation
CONAPS       -        Comision Nacional de Propriedad Social, National Social
Property Commission
DFC          -        Development Finance Company
EPS          -        Empresa de Propriedad Social, Social Property Enterprise
SPS          -        Sector de Propriedad Social, Social Property Sector
FONAPS       -        Fondo Nacional de Propriedad Social, National Social Property
Fund
IDB          -        Inter-American Development Bank
IERR         -        Internal Economic Rate of Return
INP          -        Instituto Nacional de Planificaci6n, National Planning Institute
MEF          -        Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas, Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIT          -        Ministerio de Industria y Turismo, Ministry of Industry and Tourism
FISCAL PERIOD
Biennial Period, starting from January 1, of uneven year to December 31,of following year
1/ US$1 = S/. 43.38 in a small parallel draft market.
2/ On September 20, 1976, the Government instituted a policy of minidevaluations.



P E R U               YOR OFFICULUU C? L'Y
APPRAISAL OF AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT TO
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA ON CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                                      i
I. INTRODUCTION .
II.      ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR .................    2
A. Economic Setting.                                                         2
B. Industrial Policies.                                                      4
C. Evaluation of Industrial Policies.                                        5
D.  Role of Public Enterprises in the Industrial Sector.                     8
E. The Financial System.                                       ;            10
F. Financing of the Industrial Sector .11
G. Level and Structure of Interest Rates .12
III.    EMPLOYEES' PARTICIPATION SCHEMES IN PERU                                     13
A.  Industrial Communities and the Reformed Private Sector .....   13
B.  Social Property ............................................   14
IV.  SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF COFIDE                          ..                       17
~~~~.        Or a  i a  i n...............................................           17 
A. Organization ........ 17
B.  Operational Policies and Procedures ........................   18
C.  Role of COFIDE ..........................................               19
D.  Resources .............................................                 20
E.  Financial Position and Results .............................   20
F.  Past Operations ..........................................              22
G.  Ec6nomic Impact ..........................................              22
H.  Projections ..........................................                  23
V.       THE PROJECT ...........................................23
A.  Background and Objectives ..................................   23
B.  Project Description ........................................   24
C.  The Fund Approach and COFIDE's Role ........................   25
D.  Project Benefits and Risks .................................   26
VI.      RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................................                  27
This report is based on the findings of appraisal missions, composed of
Messrs. P. Knotter, K. Challa, C. Ludvik, G. Prenoveau, D. von Stauffenberg
(all of the Bank), B. Decaux and P. Knight (consultants),which visited Peru
in March and December 1975.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its coitsnts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
ANNEXES
1.      Organization Chart
2.      Board of Directors
3.      Members of the Management Committee
4.      Operating Policies and Procedures of the Fund
5.      Operating Policies of COFIDE
6.      Description of Share Capital
7.      Total Resources
8.      Distribution of Operations Approved by Type of Operation and Type of Enterprise
9.      Analysis of Operations Approved
10.     Analysis of Loans Approved
11.     Analysis of Outstanding Loan and Equity Portfolio and Guarantees
12.     List of Equity Investments
13.     Sectoral and Regional Distribution of Studies
14.     Summary of Follow-up Activity
15.     Statement of Arrears
16.     Interest Rates and Terms on Local Currency Loans
17.     Past and Projected Balance Sheets, 1971-1978
18.     Past and Projected Income Statements, 1971-1978
19.     Past and Projected Sources and Uses of Funds, 1974-1978
20.     Major Assumptions Used for Financial Projections
21.     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



APPENDICES
A.      The Financial Sector and Policies
Table 1:  Financial Requirement by Sector, 1968-1975
Table 2: Financial Structure of the Economy, 1965-1975
Table 3: Selected Statistics on the Banking System and COFIDE
Table 4: Components of Net Domestic Credit by the Central Bank, 1965-1975
Table 5: Selective Credit System for Commercial Banks
Table 6: Commercial and Savings Bank-Credit Granted by Economic Sectors,
1950-1975
Table 7: Commercial, Savings and Development Banks--Credit Granted by
Economic Sectors
Table 8: Interest Rates on Deposits and Other Savings Instruments, 1962-1975
Table 9: Interest Rate Ceilings on Lending and Deposits, June 1976
Table 10: Structure of Interest Rates on Central Reserve Bank Credit,1968-1976
B.      The Social Property Sector
C.      Description, Activities and Prospects of COFIDE



PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPCRACION FINANCIIRA DE DESARROLLO
BASIC DATA
1. Year of Establishment:  1971
2.  Ownership (December 31, 1975):
Value of Shares
(in millions or Soles)           Percentage
Government                              4,230                          84c%t
Individuals or Corporations (as
partial payxent of Agrarian
Reform Debt)                           817                         16%
Total               5,047                         100.0
3. Operations
1971     1972     1973      1974     1975
7in millions of Soles)
Loans
Approvals                          31      626     6574      7559     6122
Disbursements                      -       209      1893     4228      5845
Equity Investments (including underwriting)
Approvals                          23      894        27      821        -
Disbursements                      15      632       177      101       326
Guarantees Approved
On own account                     -        22     1697      3876     5569
On Government's behalf             -      3962     4622    15701      7990
4. Financial Performance
Total Incone as % of Average
Total Assets                    3.6      7.8       5.1      9.0        8.6
Net Profit as % of Average
Net Worth                       0.3      4.7      1.7       2.3        3.0
Provisions as % of Total
Portfolio (including Guarantees
on own account)                  -       0.2       0.3      0.4        065
5. Financial Position
Total Assets at year-erd (millions
of Soles)                       1371.3   1994.5   4105.2   8496.1   16173.1
Total debt/equity ratio (including
guarantees given by COFIDE)              0.51:1   1.15:1   1.90:1    2.72:1



P E R U
APPRAISAL OF AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT TO
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.     This report appraises an industrial credit project to assist development
projects through Corporaci6n Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE), a government-
controlled multi-purpose development bank. The proposed US$35 million loan,
which would be guaranteed by the Peruvian Government, would be made to COFIDE.
The proposed project would be the Bank's first DFC-type operation in Peru. It
would finance the foreign exchange component of productive sector projects.
ii.    The Peruvian economy has undergone major structural reforms since the
assumption of power by the new Government in 1968. In an effort to achieve
economic growth while at the same time promoting broader worker participation
in the country's economic, social and political life, the Government established
within the industrial sector four alternative modes of ownership involving varying
degrees of employees' participation in ownership, profits and management. They
are referred to respectively as the public, reformed private, private and social
property sectors, and coexist in what is called "economic pluralism." Moreover,
in an attempt to ensure a pattern of investment that would support an integrated
economic growth, the state's direct control of the economy has been increased
through the creation of public enterprises in-most major productive sectors and
through strict regulations of foreign exchange flows.
iii.   In order to foster industrial development within its overall reform
objectives, the Government has established a complex industrial policy framework
involving fiscal incentives, import restrictions, concessional financing terms
and other subsidy measures. Special high priority treatment has been accorded to
selected categories of industries considered basic for the integrated development
of the economy and to projects promoting geographical decentralization of
development. Spurred by the incentives and a growing domestic demand through
income redistribution policies, industrial sector investment increased rapidly in
recent years and the value added by the industrial sector investment increased at
an annual real rate of 8.6% during 1968-74. However, the incentives were less
successful in ensuring an optimal composition of industrial investment and output,
and in promoting an integration of the industrial sector, as originally envisaged.
A crucial factor has been the lack of a consistent and unified framework of
analysis in formulating the industrial policies and the priority system. Rigid
priorities and corresponding incentives have often been assigned without full
regard to Peru's comparative advantages or considerations of economic efficiency.
Recent government measures have tended to counter the shortcomings of previous
industrial policies. Priority is now being given to increasing efficiency in the
production system and to restoring confidence and dynamism in the private sector.
iv.    Overall, the industrial sector has become increasingly dependent on imports,
thereby aggravating Peru's balance of payments problem. Domestic resource mobiliza-
zation and, hence, the rate of productive sector development also suffered from
interest rates that have been kept artificially low under government regulation
in the face of a recent high rate of inflation.



- ii -
v.     The Government now faces the task of consolidating the var`ous economic and
social reforms, and reconciling the objectives of growth and preservation of
private initiative with those of income redistribution and broader worker partici-
pation. Increasing economic difficulties during the last two years have led the
Government to recognize an urgent need tc readjust some of the development policies
and improve savings, production efficiency and the balance of payments position.
Accordingly, the Government has recently taken a series of constructive economic
measures, involving a reduction of many consumer goods subsidies, increase in the
incentives to non-traditional exports, reduction in duty exemptions on imports of
capital goods, and a gradual liberalization of price policies--including interest
rates and exchange rates.
vi.    The loan would assist Peru in improving production efficiency as well as
its balance of payments by covering the foreign exchange component of subprojects
with potential for, preferably, export earnings, but also efficient import substi-
tution, and by strengthening the economic evaluation capacity of COFIDE and other
government agencies involved in productive sector investment decision making.
Beneficiaries would include state, reformed private, private and social property
enterprises, mostly in the medium-and large-size range. While COFIDE would only be
required to apply systematic internal economic rate of return tests to all Bank-
financed projects, it is expected that their application will spread to other
projects financed by COFIDE and, possibly, other government agencies. The project's
wider objective would thus be to help Peru improve its resource allocation by
increasingly taking into account its comparative advantages and economic efficiency
criteria in the consideration of investment proposals. At the same time, it would
help COFIDE strengthen further its ability to formulate, evaluate and implement
projects to complement the functions performed by other government entities.
Progress in this area should gradually increase COFIDE's influence over industrial
investment decisions, irrespective of the source of funds.
vii.   Mainly due to uncertainties regarding the future role of COFIDE as a holding
company of a number of large government-owned enterprises, COFIDE would be required
to place the loan proceeds into a special "Fund" segregated from all other funds of
COFIDE, and the Government would be required to assure sufficient liquidity for COFIDE
to meet its obligations.  The loan proceeds would be re-lent in foreign exchange at a
fixed rate of interest of not less than 11% p.a.. COFIDE would receive no more than
1-1/2% p.a. as an administration fee. The remainder of the spread between cost of
Bank funds and the ultimate re-lending rate would accrue to the Fund and would be
available to finance training and technical assistance programs. Subloan terms are
expected to range between 5 and 15 years, with grace periods of 1 to 3 years.
viii.  Apart from the support of an expected 35 to 50 development projects in a wide
range of productive subsectors, the proposed loan would contribute to the strengthening
of COFIDE by improving its capacity to mobilize and allocate resources, increasing
its autonomy in the planning and investment decision-making process of Peru's
productive sector development, and by strengthening its effectiveness as a development
bank. Furthermore, it would afford an excellent opportunity to intensify mutually
useful policy discussions between the Bank and the Government on such matters as
the industrial incentive system, and level and structure of interest rates. Finally,
the project would enable the Bank to familiarize itself with the workings of the
self-management system practised under the new social property sector.
ix.    The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$35 million on terms and
conditions outlined in Chapter V.



P E R U
APPRAISAL OF AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT TO
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE), a government-controlled,
multipurpose development bank, has applied for a Bank loan to finance the foreign
exchange component of a wide range of manufacturing, processing and tourism
projects of state, reformed private, private and social property enterprises.
Established in 1971 as an autonomous state enterprise, COFIDE has been growing fast,
assuming quickly its role as the Government's principal agency for promoting and
financing productive sector development through a widely diversified range of
operations.
1.02      The proposed US$35 million industrial credit project would be the Bank's
first DFC-type operation in Peru. Although it would aim at establishing the same
close working relationship with the borrower as is customary for regular DFC
lending, a main loan objective would be to help the Government in formulating
industrial policies oriented towards a more efficient use of the country's resources.
Since 1968 great importance has been given to developing a diversified and self-
sufficient industrial sector. To this end, while broadening the scope for state
activity and investing heavily in the sector, the Government pursued dual policies,
aiming at stimulating private investment while achieving broader worker participation
in economic growth.
1.03      Past industrial policies have been concerned mainly with structural changes
and with providing generous investment incentives, while paying relatively little
attention to economic efficiency. The increasingly urgent need to strengthen Peru's
balance of payments position now suggests that projects with potential for exports or for
efficient import substitution be given priority. The proposed loan is oriented to-
wards such projects.
1.04      The proposed loan would be guaranteed by the Peruvian Government and
granted to COFIDE, which would place the loan proceeds into a separate account (the
Fund) to be created for this purpose. The loan proceeds would be segregated from
all other funds and accounts of COFIDE and would be used in accordance with clearly
defined lending criteria and operating policies and procedures. Also, the Government
would assure sufficient liquidity for COFIDE to meet its obligations, while keeping
it within a 5:1 overall debt to equity limitation. These special arrangements are
necessary, since COFIDE has been assigned responsibility for a number of very large
government-owned enterprises, but the nature of this involvement and its likely
impact on COFIDE's consolidated financial position and operations and, thus, its
creditworthiness as an institution cannot be determined fully for some time. However,
COFIDE's qualified staff and its good appraisal capacity provide reasonable assurance
that the Fund's loan portfolio will be of good quality. Only in case the Fund
cannot meet its payment obligations  would the Bank call upon COFIDE's ability to
service the debt from its general resources. Also, the Bank's institution-building



-2-
efforts associated with the proposed loan should contribute to strengthening
COFIDE and to defining clearly its role and financial obligations.
1.05      Following several visits to Peru in 1973-74, missions consisting of
Messrs. Knotter, Challa, Ludvik, Prenoveau, von Stauffenberg (all of the Bank),
Decaux and Knight (consultants) appraised the project in March and December 1975.
This report is based on the missions' findings.
II. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A.        Economic Setting
2.01      Shortly after assuming power in 1968, the Military Government began to
implement basic changes in the pattern of economic development in order to link
economic growth to a broader participation of the population in the country's
economic, social and political life. This is mainly taken to mean improving the
distribution of income and wealth, increasing the participation of employees in
enterprise ownership and management, and drawing the rural poor into the modern
development process. Another important goal has been decentralizing economic
activity away from Lima.
2.02      To achieve these objectives, the State assumed an active role in
economic management in the belief that the unregulated pursuit of private investor
interests would not assure the desired. socioeconomic development. The divergence
of private and public interests was held to be particularly significant in the case
of foreign investment,and thus a number of foreign-owned industries in strategic
sectors were nationalized. The expansion of the State's control and management
of the country's productive resources were pursued through the creation of public
enterprises in all major productive sectors and through the control of domestic and
foreign private investment. With a view to reforming wealth and income distribution,
the Government also embarked on a fundamental transformation of the ownership and
management structures in the economy, including the creation of new schemes of
employee   participation in the agricultural and industrial sectors (para. 2.06 and
Section III) which coexist in what is called "economic pluralism."
2.03      During implementation of these deep structural reforms, some major
problems have arisen which are now being tackled by the Government.--Household
savings dropped because of the redistributive policies and the heavy subsidies stim-
ulating consumption. On the other hand, the public enterprise sector, rather than
contributing to national savings, has had to rely on large subsidies, partly due to
the past government policy of maintaining unrealistically low prices for basic
consumer goods. Deficiencies in planning and selection have led to the execution
of some very large but economically marginal public sector investment projects,
which appear unlikely to produce significant economic surpluses. Finally, private
investment has been adversely affected due to investor uncertainty regarding the
Government's posture toward the private sector. As a result of all these factors,
total savings in the economy, which were already at a low 10.6% in 1968, dropped
rapidly, to about 8.3% of GDP last year. The low level of savings, together with
the heavy import dependence and generally poor international competitiveness of Peruvian



- 3 -
industry, 1/ has led to an increasingly large balance of payments gap. Peru's
balance of payments current account deficit rose from 0.3% to 11.4% of GDP
between 1972 and 1975. As rates of investment and consumption exceeded domestic
production, the Government had to resort increasingly to foreign borrowing.
Triggered by rapid increases in import prices and excessive growth of domestic
demand, the official consumer price index increased 9.5% in 1973, 17% in 1974,
and 24% in 1975, compared to average annual increases of about 5% during 1968-72.
As shown by recent measures (para. 2.04),the Government is aware of the urgent
need to reconcile (a) the large investments required to fully complement the
growth and reform program with the redistributive policies that have tended to
stimulate consumption at the expense of savings, and (b) the extent of the direct
economic role of the State and the new Social Property Sector with the scope for
private investment and initiative.
2.04      President Morales Bermudez, who assumed control in August 1975, reaffirmed
his Government's commitment to the reform program initiated by the military revo-
lution, acknowledged some errors in the past economic management and asserted that
savings and production efficiency must be improved. He also stressed the need for
a more stable environment that would stimulate private investment and attract
foreign investment in suitable sectors. Accordingly, since early 1975,the Govern-
ment has been intensely revising and correcting several of the past economic
policies. To stimulate agricultural production, farm-gate prices for most crops
have been increased; to reduce aggregate demand and consumer subsidies, and to
increase public savings, taxes and prices of imported petroleum and foodstuffs
have been raised and salary increases curtailed; as a first step towards reducing
subsidies and consequent inefficiencies in industry, exemptions on imported
capital goods have been lowered; PESCAPFRU, the large state fishmeal corporation,
is being reorganized, and its fishing fleet has been returned to the private
sector; and finally, price policies have been liberalized gradually--including
interest and exchange rates 2/--as part of a package of austerity measures.
2.05      Mainly due to the above economic measures and to an expected recovery of
mineral prices, short and medium-run prospects for Peru's balance of payments and
economic growth are encouraging,despite a sharp downward revision of the expected
returns from petroleum exploitation. Overall, GDP is expected to increase in real
terms during 1976, but at a rate lower than the 5.2% average real growth achieved
during 1970-75; average annual growth rates of 5-6% may be expected over the
following five years. Receipts from mining exports should contribute substantially
to the long-run growth, although its employment effects and linkages to other sectors
are likely to remain small. Expected upturns in agriculture and fisheries output,
while helpful, will be slow,due to the sectors' relatively limited potential. Thus,
the Government will have to look increasingly to industrial sector expansion to
provide increases in domestic value added, exports and employment.
1/ Until recently, industry's difficulties in competing in international markets had
been compounded by an overvalued exchange rate.
2/ In September, frequent mini-devaluations were initiated; by October 13, the
U.S. dollar parity had reached S/. 66.13.



-4-
B.        Industrial Policies
2.06      In order to foster industrial development within the overall objectives
outlined above, the Government has established a complex policy framework involving
fiscal incentives, import restrictions, concessional financing terms and other
measures that stimulate industry directly or indirectly. The Government's policies
are contained in four basic pieces of legislation: the General Law of Industries
and the Industrial Community Law of 1970, the Social Property Law of 1974, and
the Law of Small Enterprise of 1976. These laws divide all industrial activities
according to the mode of ownership into (a) the Public Sector, through which the
State has been increasing its direct participation in developing and exploiting
the country's productive resources; (b) the Reformed Private Sector, i.e., private
sector industrial firms in w'hich workers, through the "industrial community,"
gradually acquire up to one half of an enterprise's ownership and corresponding
participation in management and profits; (c) the Social Property Sector, which is
composed of fully employee-owned and managed enterprises (para. 3.04); and
(d) the Private Sector, which comprises small private firms not affected by the
Industrial Community legislation. The latter three sectors together are called
the nonpublic sector. In principle, productive investment projects by enterprises
in any one of the above sectors would be eligible for financing under the proposed
loan (para. 5.05).
2.07      Peru's industrial policies are mainly designed to redress what the Govern-
ment perceives as the sector's characteristic weaknesses: its excessive focus on
consumer goods production and concentration of both ownership and location, by
creating a balanced structure comprising basic, intermediate and finished goods
industries. This aim is pursued by encouraging heavy industries, which, in turn,
are expected to stimulate the growth of capital and intermediate goods industries.
Other goals are decentralization, broader distribution of ownership, transfer of
vital industries into Peruvian hands, employment creation, and integration into
the Andean Common Market (ACM).
2.08      The General Law of industries provides the framework for industrial
development according to a priority system. First-priority "basic" industries receive
maximum incentives and are reserved for state exploitation, either directly or
through joint ventures. A number of other first-priority industries not considered
"basic" i.e.,crucial for achieving government objectives (such as transport equipment
and some engineering industries) are open to nonpublic enterprises as well. The
second-priority category covers a wide range of industries producing essential
goods for mass consumption and supporting the production of "basic" materials in
agriculture, fishing, mining, transport and construction. The third-priority
category includes all other industries, which are considered "complementary" to
the first two categories, but nontssential, with the exception of a relatively
small fourth group of industries producing nonpriority (most luxury) goods. Besides
their priority classification, the location of enterprises influences the level of
most incentives, additional benefits being given to industries located outside
Lima/Callao.
2.09      The fiscal incentives include tax exemptions of 85%, 75%, and 65% of
profits reinvested for first-, second-, and third-priority industries, respectively,



- 5 -
plus additional exemptions for companies established outside Lima/Callao. 1/
Import duties on both capital goods and imported materials are similarly reduced
according to the priority or location of an enterprise. Until recently, only
between 10-65% of the standard tariff for nonpriority enterprises was payable
on capital goods imports of priority industries located in Lima/Callao, and
between 5-35% for those outside. 2/ Furthermore, state development banks such
as COFIDE and Banco Industrial del Peru (BIP) are required to grant local currency
loans for capital goods and working capital to priority industries at differentiated
concessionary terms (para. 2.29). In addition, exporters of nontraditional exports
are exempt from export taxes and are granted transferable tax credit certificates
(CERTEX) of 15-35% equivalent of the f.o.b. value 3/ of the exports, depending on
the extent of their net foreign exchange surrender, domestic raw material content,
value added component and degree of product elaboration. An export credit guarantee
system has been established, and a fund to provide export financing was set up in
1972. The above system of incentives provides an average nominal protection for
manufactured goods of about 90%. However, as a result of quantitative restrictions,
including import quotas and mandatory prior authorizations and prohibitions of some
imports, the effective rate of protection is likely to be considerably higher, in
particular for consumer goods such as textiles, beverages, tobacco, footwear,
leather and wood products.
C.        Evaluation of Industrial Policies
2.10      Spurred by the system of import quotas and fiscal incentives, as well as
the growing domestic demand stimulated by income redistribution policies, industrial
sector investment increased rapidly in recent years, as seen below:
Rate of Investment in the Manufacturing Sector
(Index based on investment in constant Soles 1970=100)
1968       1970       1971       1972      1973       1974
115        100        121        168       229        253
Industrial value added showed a similarly rapid growth, averaging 8.6% annually in
real terms during 1968-74, well above the annual 5.5% real GDP increase; it accounted
for 27% of Peru's GDP in 1974, up from 23% in 1970. 4/ Industrial sector growth
appears to have slowed in 1975 as firms were increasingly hampered by shortages of
foreign exchange and domestic credit, which are likely to remain an important
1/ The Lima/Callao area currently accounts for some 72% of value added and 75% of
employment in manufacturing but houses only one quarter of the country's
population.
2/ Tariff levels for priority industries have recently been increased by about 50%.
3/ Of the c.i.f. value for goods shipped on Peruvian vessels. The above percentages
have recently been raised slightly.
4/ An even more dynamic sector growth could have been achieved but for the fishmeal
crisis of 1972, and some difficulties in administering the import licensing system.



- 6 -
constraint in the near future. The relatively low cost of labor and the CERTEX
tax rebate system were instrumental in raising nontraditional exports from
US$56 million (5.4% of total  exports) in 1971 to US$157 million (10.4%) in
1974. 1/ Hampered by an increasingly overvalued exchange rate, nontraditional
exports fell to US$135.1 million in 1975. 2/
2.11       Industrial policies, however, have not vet been as successful.
in directing investment towards priority industries. Over the four years since
the incentive scheme became fully effective,a large part of manufacturing expansion has
continued to take place in consumer goods industries catering to the domestic market.
In 1974, value added by capital and intermediate goods industries accounted for
45% of gross value added (i.e.,an increase of only 5% since 1968), while such
sectors as food processing, beverages, tobacco and textiles contributed 40% to gross
value added. Duty exemptions on imported inputs and, increasingly, outright import
bans for products produced domestically have been used to promote import substitution.
These policies have tended to stimulate production of goods with low domestic value
added and, sometimes, mere assembly of imported inputs. As a result, the manufacturing
sector has remained generally inefficient 3/and poorly integrated, and shows a
substantial degree of import dependence (para. 2.15).
2.12       One reason for growth along established patterns is that incentives favor
expansion of existing,rather than creation of new,enterprises, as is shown by the
sudden surge in reinvestments from 1972 onwards. The threat of growing worker
participation may also have acted as a reinvestment incentive in existing firms, as
industrialists, by expanding their own equity, attempt to keep the workers' share
low (para. 3.03), while the likely eventual loss of management control may have
made industrialists reluctant to start new firms. Also, incentives play a
relatively minor role in stimulating first-priority public sector investments.
The public investment program in manufacturing is only beginning to gather moment-m,
and much of its success in reorienting the industrial sector will depend on the
ultimate success in strengthening the implementation capacity of public sector
enterprises.
1/ Main manufactured export items were canned and frozen fish, textiles, alpaca
wool tops, zinc alloy, copper wire and fishing vessels. Exports to ACM
countries have been expanding rapidly and now represent about one quarter of Peru's
nontraditional
2/ Manufactured exports are expected to resume 1974 levels in 1977 and then grow by
an annual average of 12% during 1978-80.   If present policies to increase
efficiency in production (para. 2.16) and to maintain a realistic exchange rate
are followed, a much higher growth in manufactured goods exports seem likely.
3/  Observation by the missions and recent studies of Peru's industrial sector
indicate that low domestic value added, low productivity and/or low capacity
utilization are especially prominent in the more highly protected subsectors
such as textiles, paper and pulp, and food processing. High protection also
impairs the manufacturing sector's ability to benefit from ACM integration.



-7I 
2.13      The cost to the Treasury of liberal incentive programs 1/is becoming
exceedingly high. In 1974 investment incentives reduced corporate income tax
collection by an estimated 25%. Until recently, the estimated loss of government
revenues through duty exemptions has been even higher, amounting to an average
of 60% of nominal import duties, and as much as 85% on capital goods imports.
Given the extent to which incentives are being granted, they have ceased to be
an effective tool for selective changes in the structure of the industrial sector.
2014      Industrial policies < so have had little apparent impact on stimulating
manufacturing sector emp'loyment, which has been growing at about 4% annually, i.e.,
well below the growth in output. At present the industrial sector (excluding
cottage industries) employs only some 5% of Peru's labor force. While investment
incentives have tended to favor the use of capital-intensive technology, this
trend may have been accentuated by labor legislation that makes it virtually impossible
to dismiss employees. In addition, poor labor discipline and widespread strikes
have become a serious problem, reducing the comparative advantage afforded to
Peruvian industry by the country's relatively cheap labor.
2.15      Perhaps the most serious shortcoming has been the lack of a consistent
and unified framework of analysis in formulating industrial policies and the
priority system. Rigid priorities and corresponding incentives have been assigned
mainly with a view to reducing dependence on foreign inputs, without full regard to
Peru's comparative advantages or considerations of economic efficiency; in some
cases, these policies have pursued contradictory goals. For instance, many heavy
industries, which indiscriminately enjoy the highest priority, may not make the
best use of the country's resources. Similarly, strong protection and fiscal
incentives may discourage employment creation and development of industries with
high domestic value added. Therefore, instead of increasing its integration and
independence as hoped for, Peru's manufacturing sector has become more dependent on
imports and thus on other sectors of the economy to provide it with foreign exchange.
By 1975, annual imports of raw materials and semifinished goods by the manufacturing
sector had reached $928 million (up from $237 million in 1970), compared to the
country's total export earnings of $1.38 billion ($1.03 billion in 1970),thereby
aggravating Peru's balance of payments situation.
2.16      Recent government measures have tended to counter the shortcomings of
previous industrial policies. Priority is now being given to increasing efficiency
in the productive system,and extensive efforts to restore confidence and dynamism in
the private sector are being made. Private sector participation in petroleum
exploration and medium-scale nmining development is being encouraged,and ambiguities
in the industrial community legislation are to be eliminated, guaranteeing the
present owners managerial control of the enterprise,2/ Social property development is
still supported but no more as a priority sector, and it is to compete with the
private sector on equal terms. Also, the labor stability law, a cause of low labor
productivity, has been suspended pending the issuance of new legislation. Most
important of all, the Peruvian authorities have come to understand the need to
replace gradually the present rigid priority and incentive system with a consistent
industrial strategy based on a comprehensive and rational analysis of Peru's
1/ Most manufacturing enLerprises are, in fact, granted exemptions.
2/  The industrial community's share in a compan- will be limited to one third of
equity.



comparative advantages, and economic evaluation of projects that ensures efficient
resource allocation. 1/
2.17      The proposed loan is primarily designed to help overcome a basic weakness
in the manufacturing sector development, by orienting investment decisions towards
projects which utilize the country's resources efficiently. It will do so
initially on a comparatively small scale, by requiring that COFIDE determine the
economic efficiency of all Bank-financed subloans. In computing the internal
economic rate of return (ERR) of projects, distortions created by the complex
system of duty exemptions, artificial price supports and other subsidies would be
corrected, using,to the maximum extent possible, international prices and shadow prices
for factor inputs. The loan's impact should, however, extend beyond the limited
number of projects which it would support directly. It is expected that as COFIDE
becomes more familiar with systematic economic evaluation the DFC would extend
its use to other projects and that the concept would eventually spread to other
government agencies concerned with investment decisions (para. 5.02).
2.18      Application of economic efficiency tests alone, however, cannot bring
about a lasting reorientation of investments unless industrial policies favor
efficient resource allocation. The Government has become increasingly aware of the
shortcomings of present incentive policies, and far-reaching reforms of the incentive
system are being studied. The recent reduction in exemptions of import duties on
capital goods is the first step in a gradual revamping of fiscal incentives to
industry. The Bank would continue to assist the Government's efforts through
industrial policy discussions whenever called for.
D.        Role of Public Enterprises in the Industrial Sector
2.19      Given COFIDE3s important role in financing and holding the shares of state
enterprises (para. 4.11), this sector and its decision-making process call for
particular attention. Reflecting the Government's development priorities, public
enterprises have increased from 10 in 1968 to 48 at present. 2/ At the same time,
operating deficits of public enterprises have been the main source of the poor public
sector savings performance in recent years.  The financial situation of public enter-
prises still bears the imprint of an earlier government policy to maintain low prices
1/ For instance, decentralization of industrial activity is probably better promoted
by providing the necessary infrastructure rather than through automatically granting
generous fiscal incentives. Also, export promotion and import substitution
policies need to be better coordinated and the CERTEX scheme improved, perhaps
by linking the entire tax rebate/subsidy system for industrial exports to value
added measured in international prices (rather than in domestic prices as is the
present practice) and employment creation.
2/ These include the following major enterprises in (a) Production: PETROPERU
(petroleum,gas, petrochemicals); MINEROPERU and CENTROMIN (mining, fertilizers);
HIERROPERU (iron ore mining); PESCAPERU (fishMeal   fish oil); SIDERPERU (iron
and steel); INDUPERU (diversified industrial production); SIMA (shipbuilding),
and (b) Marketing-Trade: PETROPERU (petroleum); PESA (food); EPSEP (fish); ENCI
(industrial inputs. liquors, fruits); EPCHAP (food, fish products, coffee, cotton);
MINPECO (mineral products); SIDERPERU (steel); Compafnia Peruana de Vapores
(overseas shipping) 



- 2 -
for basic goods such as petroleum products, fertilizers and foodstuffs in the
face of sharp increases in the international prices of these commodities. While
the cost of the required subsidies was to be borne by the Government through
transfers to the four largest trading enterprises (PETROPEKU, ENCI, EPSA and EPCHAP),
these have had to rely heavily on domestic bank financing from 1974 onward,as delays
in the subsidy payments occurred. The following table illustrates the problem
created by heavily subsidized consumer prices prior to the general price increases
of 1975 and 1976:
State Enterprise Finances
(billions of Soles)
1972           1973           1974             1975
(Estimate)
Total Revenues               18.1           25.3           45.9             66.9
Current Expenditure          12.7           21.9           43.5             88.4
Capital Expenditure           4.9           11.2            19.6            22.5
Total Expenditure            17.6           33.2            63.1           104.9
Surplus/ eficit                .5           -7.9          -17.2            -38.0
Financing of Deficit
Foreign Borrowing             2.2            4.8             8.3            16.0
Domestic Borrowing           -2.6            3.1             8.9            22.0
Sources: Enterprises' financial statements, Ministry of Economy
and Finance, Central Reserve Bank, IMF.
In the first half of 1975 alone, lending by Banco de la Naci6n (para. 2.24) to state
enterprises accounted for one third of the increase of net domestic assets of the
financial system. Faced with this situation, the Government virtually eliminated
subsidies through price increases in June 1975 and January and June 1976. Significant
subsidies remain only for fertilizers, cement, flour, sugar, and edible oils.
2.20      Government price policies and other factors make it difficult to assess
state enterprise efficiency. Those companies which have either had enough time to
build up an experienced staff or have taken over an established organization from
their private predecessor are generally quite effective. 1/ However, shelter from
competition and access to the Treasury and Banco de la Nacion have tended to relieve
most public enterprises from the type of financial discipline imposed on private
companies. The Government is increasingly concerned about this lack of incentives
for efficiency, and a high level commission (including two COFIDE representatives),
reporting directly to the President, is reviewing state entrepreneurial activities.
1/ These include PETROPERU (by far the largest public enterprise), CENTROMIN,
HIERROPERU, Compafiia Peruana de Vapores and INDUPERU. SIDERPERU has recently
been modestly profitable despite a depressed demand for its products. Experience
with MINEROPERU's three huge projects suggests that the company's effectiveness
can be further improved. PESCAPERU, which was formed at the height of the fish-
meal crisis, is striving to reduce excess capacity but still faces a large
deficit.



- 10 -
2.21      Investment decision making.  Public sector resource allocation is
determined jointly by the National Planning Institute (INP), the Ministry of
Economy and Finance (MEF) and COFIDE. Whereas INP sets overall development
targets and economic priorities against which it reviews project proposals, MEF
strives to keep investment levels within the limits of resource availability.
Finally, COFIDE is charged with determining the viability of public sector
projects, mostly in financial terms.
2.22      INP's medium- and long-term development plans that define development
strategies and assign priorities are complemented by the work of sector planning
offices within each ministry. Although INP has attempted to measure economic
returns of a few major projects, apparently on an experimental basis, priorities
have been assigned thus far mainly according to the type of industry without fully
considering Peru's comparative advantages or the project's relative efficiency.
INP is interested in improving this situation (para. 5.02).
2.23      COFIDE is represented to some degree at all stages of the planning
process for state enterprise projects. While it can advise on the composition of
the sector's investment program, its most important role is to evaluate projects
once they require financing. In practice, the sequence of steps involving the sector
planning offices, INP, MEF and COFIDE is not observed rigorously. Public enterprises
on occasion approach COFIDE informally before their projects are approved by INP
or included in the investment budget. However, to ensure the greatest possible
effectiveness of its appraisal work, there is a need for COFIDE to get involved
systematically in the selection of projects from an early stage before they build
up an excessive momentum (para. 4.15).
E.        The Financial System 1/
2.24      At present, the Peruvian banking system includes the Central Reserve Bank,
17 commercial banks, 6 state-owned development banks, 2/ several private financieras
and the state-owned Banco de la Nacion. The latter is the main depository of public
funds and reserve requirements of commercial banks and plays a major role in
channeling short-term funds to state enterprises. Three of the largest commercial
banks passed into government ownership in 1970. Although these "associated banks"
are under the supervision of Banco de la Nacion, they have retained a considerable
degree of autonomy and are subject to regulations for private commercial banks.
Term financing is provided mainly by the state development banks and, marginally,
the private financieras. Of the former, Banco Agrario and Banco de la Vivienda have
received Bank loans.
1/ For a detailed discussion of the financial system and policies, see Appendix A.
2/ In addition to COFIDE, there are five specialized state development banks: Banco
Agrario (agriculture), Banco de la Vivienda and Banco Hipotecario (both housing),
Banco Industrial del Peru (small- and medium-scale manufacturing) and Banco
Minero (mining).



- 11 -
2.25      Since 1968, government control of the financial system has increased.
A Monetary Policy Council and the State Council for Credit Policy were established,
both headed by the Minister of Economy and Finance and including representatives
of various ministries, the Central Reserve Bank, the Banco de la Naci6n and the
state development banks.  Coordination of the associated banks and state development
banks (including COFIDE) is facilitated through government-directed committees.
The Government also introduced a selective credit system (para. 2.27) for
commercial banks, established COFIDE as a strong new development bank predominantly
for financing public sector projects, revised the lending policies of other state
development banks and the private financieras, 1/ and introduced foreign exchange
controls.
2.26      The total flow of funds through the financial institutions increased from
26% of GNP in 1965 to more than 30% in 1973. However, due to the low legal interest
rate ceilings (para. 2.30) in a period of rising inflation, real interest rates have
become increasingly negative and the annual growth of the domestic liabilities of
the banking system (excluding COFIDE) has been slowing down since 1974. In 1975 it
was even somiewhat below the estimated   24% rate of inflation.  On the other hand,
as shown below, net domestic banking assets grew 47% per year, mainly because of a
sharp increase in public sector financing requirements.
Development of the Banking System
Percentage annual increase
1973      1974        1975
(Estimated)
Use        Increase in net domestic assets               19.5       13.9       47.5
Source:    Increase in liabilities to private sector  16.4         21.6        21.4
Medium- and long-term foreign borrowing
and drawdown of net international reserves  3.1         -7.7       26.1
Total                      19.5       13.9       47.5
Source:  Central Reserve Bank and staff estimates.
To close the gap between domestic resource mobilization and credit demand in 1975,
the banking system drew down a large part of its international reserves and increased
foreign borrowing. In an attempt to counter this development which has been hampering
productive sector growth, local currency interest rates have recently been raised
(para. 2.32).
F.        Financing of the Industrial Sector
2.27      The commercial banks are the main institutional source of industrial
finance providing local currency loans and arranging short- and medium-term foreign
I/ In 1971 the role of the private financieras was redefined towards medium- and long-
term financing of industry, agriculture and fishing, in contrast to their earlier
orientation towards consumer financing and short-term commercial and construction
loans. Consequently, the number of private financieras fell from 37 to 7.



- 12 -
credit. 1/   Industrialists also frequently finance their medium- and even long-
term investments by rolling over short-term commercial and bank credit.   As of
mid-1975, outstanding loans of commercial banks to industry amounted to S/. 20.3
billion, or 38% of their total credit. 2/ While commercial banks located in Lima
are required by the selective credit system to direct no less than 60% of their
credits to first- and second-priority industries, 3/ second-priority industries
received as much as three quarters of the banks' industrial sector loans in 1974;
and only 19% went to first-priority industries.
2.28      Other important sources of industrial financing are BIP, COFIDE, and for
short-term financing of state enterprises, Banco de la Naci6n. BIP covers the
whole range of banking services from short-term working capital loans to investment
financing, 4/ whereas COFIDE concentrates on medium- and long-term project financing,
especially of state enterprises.
G.        Level and Structure of Interest Rates.
2.29      The Peruvian Government employs the level and structure of interest rates
as a major tool for providing concessionary financing to selected high-priority
investments. Accordingly, mandatory ceilings imposed on the cost of credit vary
widely, depending on the priority of the recipient enterprise and the institutional
source of funds used. 5/
2.30      Until recently interest rates on savings and time deposits with commercial
banks have been limited to 5% and 7%, respectively; they have remained unchanged
since 1962. The short-term lending rates by commercial and savings banks had been
limited to a maximum of 14%; private financieras charged effective rates of 15-16%
(including commissions). COFIDE's and BIP's rates ranged from 10-15% on short- and
medium-term, and from 8-13% on long-term loans.
1/ In May 1974, the Government tightened regulations by requiring foreign bank
financing for all private sector imports. Commercial banks and Banco de la Nacion
usually guarantee such foreign credits. As a result, guarantees extended by these
institutions doubled in 1974 to SI. 102.8 billion, exceeding their total lending
volume (S/i 85.4 billion). While most guarantees are for imports of raw materials
or intermediate goods, they are also important for financing imports of fixed assets.
2/ Industry receives by far the largest proportion of commercial and savings bank
credits, followed by commerce (26%) and construction (12%).
3/  Commercial banks are required to purchase government bonds to make up any shortfall.
4/  BIP, established in 1936, has a substantial loan portfolio of SI. 12.7 billion,
mainly to small- and medium-sized private manufacturing enterprises. It extended
a total of US$97 million equivalent in loans and guarantees in 1974, partly using
credit lines from the IDB and USAID.
5/ Money supply in the Peruvian economy is controlled mainly through discount quotas
to the banks. To avoid disruptions in the savings and investment process through
the monetary system, the Central Bank has been following the policy of expanding
the money supply approximately in pace with the expected inflation rate.



- 13 -
2.31      At the present and projected near-term inflation levels these interest
rates were highly negative and tended to have an adverse effect on resource
mobilization and allocation.  This is exemplified by the sharp drop in the
demand deposits held by the banking system from 7.4% of GDP in 1972 to about 6.5%
in 1975, and a parallel drop in savings and time deposits from 5.7% to 4.3% of
GDP. As pointed out in para. 2.03, total national savings as a percentage of
GDP during the same period fell from 10.6% to 8.3%. Furthermore, the low level
of lending rates in local currency favors capital-intensive over labor-intensive
industries, thus distorting factor proportions contrary to Peru's comparative
advantage and encouraging unnecessarily high inventory accumulation.
2.32      The Peruvian authorities are becoming increasingly convinced of the
importance of adequate interest rates as a means of improving domestic resource
mobilization and allocation and to prevent a large-scale financial disintermediation.
Thus the Government has recently raised the interest rate ceilings imposed by usury
legislation,and the Monetary Board authorized significantly higher interest rates
for the banking system. Interest rates on savings and time deposits with commercial
banks now range from   13% (and up to 17% for private financieras) and relending
rates from 14% to 19%. COFIDE's (Annex 16) and BIP's rates now range from 13.5 -
17.5% on short- and medium-term, and from 11.5 - 15.5% on long-term loans. However,
rates, terms and grace periods for loans from the public development banks continue
to be determined by a complicated system based on the borrower's ownership, priority,
location and the use of funds. While it would not be realistic to expect the
Government now to move to positive interest rate levels in real terms, the recent
changes reflect a major shift in government policy. The Government has indicated
its intention of reviewing the progress towards its longer-term goal of
achieving positive interest rates, should inflation remain over 15% in 1977. In
future, COFIDE would be expected to adjust its local currency interest rates whenever
necessary (para. 4.21).
2.33      Foreign currency lending, accounting for a substantial part of industrial
sector financing, usually carried an effective cost of 2.5% to 4.5% above LIBOR.
The relending rate under the proposed loan would be not less than 11% p.a. in
foreign exchange (para. 5.07).
III. EMPLOYEES' PARTICIPATION SCHEMES IN PERU
3.01      The industrial community and social property concepts resulted directly
from the Government's stated goal of broader popular participation in economic
growth. These rather unique concepts are important not only since enterprises
organized according to them would be eligible for financing under the proposed loan
but also for their possible importance in Peru's future productive sector development.
A.        Industrial Communities and the Reformed Private Sector
3.02      The Industrial Community Law of 1970 governs all private industrial enter-
prises with gross incomes greater than S/. 25 million and six or more emDlovees.
These firms are called "reformed private" enterprises and their worker groups,
industrial communities. A reformed private industrial enterprise is required to
transfer 15% of its annual profits everv-vear i-n thelTormx of the firm's shares
to its industrial community, until the community acquires 50% of the firm's capital;
an additional 10% of the profits are distributed in cash among the workers. The
industrial community also elects representatives to the company's Board of Directors.
By increasing workers' participation in ownership and profits of the firm, the



- 14 -
scheme is intended to foster higher productivity through better employee-
management relationships and income redistribution.
3.03      Thus far, the industrial community scheme has shown ambiguous results.
Many industrialists viewed it with apprehension, due to its long-term goal of 50%
worker ownership of the firm, and they reportedly often reinvest profits to post-
pone this event. On the other hand, most workers seemed to be rather indifferent
towards the concepts of equity participation and profit sharing, as indicated by
extended strikes for wage increases. This may be partly because workers currently
own only a small share of the equity in most enterprises 1/. Thus, as long as the
profit sharing effect of industrial communities remains small, workers tend to rely
more on labor unions to obtain income increases. Overall, the industrial community
concept has had only limited success thus far in achieving its main objectives. The
Government has now announced its intention to introduce changes in the concept whic1
should overcome some of its shortcomings, most notably the fear of entrepreneurs to
lose control which was seen as a threat to investment in new projects. The industrial
community's share in a company will be limited to one third of eruity sad individual
workers will have stronger property rights including the right to sell their sharms.
B.        Social Property 2/
3.04      The new Social Property Sector (SPS) is composed of enterprises in which
the workers, through their elected representatives, control most of the operating,
marketing and financial decisions. The main objective of SPS is "to permit the
efficient use of resources without concentrating benefits and decision-making powers."
Social property involves a new form of ownership by workers, distinct from state
or private ownership, and is seen as an attempt to construct a "fully participatory
social democracy" which is neither capitalist nor communist in nature. SPS is
intended to combine a more equitable income distribution with a rapid economic
growth through more harmonious labor-management relations and worker incomes linked
directly to the firm's performance.
3.05      An elaborate organizational structure has been established to administer
and support SPS, which is to have three levels of self-managed institutions: the
individual Social Property Enterprises (Empresas de Propiedad Social-EPS), Regional
Assemblies performing certain planning and coordinating functions, and a peak-level
National Assembly. Workers of each individual EPS elect delegates to the Regional
Assembly, which in turn elects delegates to the National Assembly.  While the latter
is to be the highest administrative body of SPS, a wide range of policymaking powers-
in sector administration and financing are assigned to the "supporting structure" of
SPS. It comprises various autonomous and semi-autonomous agencies, including the
National Social Property Commission (Comisi6n Nacional de Propiedad Social, CONAPS),
the National Social Property Fund (Fondo Nacional de Propiedad Social, FONAPS),
COFIDE, and the Housing Fund for Social Property Workers. In addition, government
bodies such as INP, the National System for the Development of Social Property and
the Council of Ministers, have varying degrees of authority; all EPS investments must
be approved by the relevant ministry.
1/ The share of industrial communities in the equity of firms reached an estimated
average of 13% as of year-end 1974, although with wide variations.
2/ See Appendix B for a fuller discussion of the Social Property Sector.



- 15 -
3.06      The central agency responsible for implementing the national social
property policy is CONAPS; it has important decision-making power relating to the
constitution and dissolution of EPSs, their hiring policies, some financial
matters, and, indirectly, EPS wage and salary policies. CONAPS is composed of
three worker repre-entatives elected from the SPS National Assembly, and twelve
other members representing the President of the Republic, various ministries and
other state agencies. Additional support for the implementation of SPS prograns
is to be provided by regional offices of CONAPS and sectoral social property
organs to be established within several ministries and state agencies.
3.07      FONAPS is the key financial organ supporting the sector through provision
of transitory capital 1/ financing. At present, both FONAPS and COFIDE are
responsible for determining project feasibility as well as for arranging the
financing of EPSs whose formation have been approved by CONAPS.  FONAPS is governed
by aneight-member Administrative Board consisting of three worker members elected
by the SPS National Assembly, four representatives appointed by the Minister of
Economy and Finance, and one representative from CONAPS. Individual EPSs can
obtain financing either through loans from financial institutions including COFIDE,
transitory capital from FONAPS, or both. Both COFIDE and FONAPS are legally
authorized to provide transitory capital, although in practice this activity has
been restricted to FONAPS 2/. FONAPS has the powers to establish the terms of
the transitory capital financing, including the amortization period, grace period and
level of "rent compensation," to enforce the financial commitments, and to demand
an individual EPS to submit a financial recovery plan, if called for. Being still
a very new organization (established in June 1975), FONAPS does not yet have the
technical or administrative staff to investigate project feasibility and economic
viability, and relies heavily on COFIDE for technical support; however, this
situation is expected to change in line with recent legislation, converting FONAPS
in effect into the central financial institution for the SPS, concentrating on
transitory capital financing.
3.08      The socialization of capital formation in Peru,usually referred to as
"social accumulation," is a concept directly linked to social property of the
means of production. Although workers of individual EPSs can make most of the
decisions involving matters such as acquisition or disposal of assets, reinvestment
and remuneration, the assets of all EPSs are conceptually owned by the totality of
all SPS workers,and "social accumulation" is thought of as capital formation for the
sector. Capital accumulation at the level of SPS takes place through FONAPS. In
addition to the permanent capital charge, it receives a fixed share of the pre-tax
profits generated within each EPS, any liquid funds in excess of predetermined limits,
1/   Transitory capital, which performs the function of equity, is similar to a
loan granted without collateral, except that annual payments of a capital charge
("rent compensation") continue perpetually, even after full amortization.
2/   FONAPS provides transitory capital either directly or through credit-line
arrangements administered by state development banks, including COFIDE.



- 16 -
and specified portions of surpluses that have not been reinvested. While the EPSs
receive a special kind of bond in exchange for these surpluses of funds
transferred to FONAPS, these financial instruments, in effect, contribute directly
to capital accumulation at the sectoral level. 1/
3.09      SPS projects are usually initiated by state enterprises, private business-
men or popular community-based organizations; new EPSs may also be formed by
transformation of existing firms. Prior to implementation, all project proposals
must be approved by CONAPS, in consultation with INP, COFIDE and the concerned
ministries. Also, while SPS projects promoted thus far by public agencies or
established private entrepreneurs have tended to be well prepared and supported by
competent technical personnel, there is a lack of an institutional and technical
assistance framework to support small projects expected to originate at the grass-
roots level. The Government is studying institutional mechanisms and training
schemes to support SPS implementation. The technical assistance arrangements
under the proposed loan could contribute towards alleviating these problems (para.
5.07).
3.10      In the past, EPSs were given first priority treatment under investment
incentive schemes and, for the first five years of operation, preferential access to
government contracts if their bids are competitive. The Government now stresses
that EPSs will have to compete under equal conditions with other enterprises.
Resources committed to the implementation of Social Property have been relatively
small. At year-end 1975, CONAPS had a staff of 84 professionals and FONAPS total
resources for transitory capital financing of some S/. 3.3 billion for the biennium
1975-76, of which SI. 2.5 billion was from the Central Reserve Bank and the rest from
a COFIDE loan.
3.11      In the initial stages of SPS implementation, CONAPS has tended to emphasize
speed rather than economic impact of projects and planned sector development. As
a result, three major problems have become apparent: (a) insufficient attention to
an integrated planning and development strategy to expand SPS activities; (b) lack
of specific criteria for preparing, evaluating and financing SPS projects and of a
clear allocation of responsibilities for project financing and implementation; and
(c) absence of an effective national training system for EPS's special technical and
management needs.
3.12      Given the small number of operating EPSs and their short history of
operation, it is not yet possible to draw any definitive conclusion from their
experiences. Impressions gathered through mission visits to eight EPSs suggest
tendencies towards possible improvements in worker attitudes, particularly in
seeking new business for their firms, and, in two instances, development of organiza-
tional innovations allowing the firms to respond better to local community needs.
1/  In addition, non-SPS enterprises and individuals can invest in SPS and participate
in its profits by purchasing "certificates of participation," i.e., diversified
indirect holdings of nonvoting "shares" of several EPSs, issued by financial
intermediaries. These indirect investments in SPS will be encouraged through
generous tax exemptions to investors. The capital accumulated by the sector,
regardless of its source, would be made available to support new SPS projects
in the future (Appendix B, Section III).



-- 1 7-
However, more time is needed to determine the long-run productive efficiency and
effects on worker participation and income distribution of EPSs.
3.13     The fervor which accompanied the introduction of social property, and which
often has led other sectors to regard it as a threat, has given way to a more sober
assessment of the possibilities and limits inherent in the concept. The GovernLment
continues to be committed to SPS development particularly in labor-intensive
industries but it follows a prudent approach of cautious expansion while consolidating
the supporting institutional mechanisms and training facilities. In view of the
linited experience to date with SPS, no more than a maximum of 307 of the proposed
loan would be available for EPS projects (para. 5.05).
IV. SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF COFIDE
A.        Organization I/
4.01      COFIDE was established as an autonomous state enterprise  in 1971,
principally to stimulate and promote Peruvian entrepreneurial activity, coordinate
and guarantee the financing of state enterprises, 2/ mobilize resources for
priority projects of state, reformed private, private and social property enterprises,
and expand the domestic capital market. It has also been designated to act as a
holding company of a number of state enterprises which are in turn holding companies
in the industrial and tourism sectors (para. 4.12). Thus, its scope and tasks are
wider and more complex than those of many DFCs associated with the Bank.
4.02      As of year-end 1975, COFIDE's S/. 5.05 billion paid-in share capital was
held 84% by the Government, and the remainder by individuals and companies which had
received COFIDE's shares as part of compensation under the agrarian reform (Annex 6).
However, by law, the control of COFIDE rests with the Government, regardless of
share ownership. COFIDE is responsible to MEF and is expected to orient its operations
in support of Peru's Economic Development Plan.
4.03      COFIDE's organization includes a fourteen-member Board of Directors and
Management Committee. The former, which is COFIDE's highest authority, is dominated
by government appointees (Annex 2); working relations between the Government and
COFIDE are close. The Board takes an active interest in directing COFIDE's policies
and operations. The present full-time Chairman and former General Manager has the
experience, skills and capacity to carry out this role successfully.  The Management
Committee, composed of senior COFIDE executives, is another key element in COFIDE's
decision making (Annex 3). At present, it is empowered to approve all operations
under S/. 20 million.
4.04      COFIDE's General Manager also appears well qualified for his position.
Under the General Manager, who is mainly responsible for day-to-day operations,
responsibilities are functionally assigned to the Operations, Finance, Technical,
International and Social Property Divisions. (For COFIDE's organization chart, see
Annex 1). COFIDE's second-level management and professional staff are relatively
young and somewhat inexperienced, but generally well qualified and responsive to the
1/ For a detailed description of COFIDE and its activities and prospects, see
Appendix C.
2/ By law, all medium- and long-term borrowing of state enterprises (including
foreign borrowings) requires COFIDE's approval, giving it a unique central
role. However, many state enterprises have continued, in effect, to arrange
their own financing.



- 18 -
leadership provided by a dynamic top management. The number of 325 employees
(including 155 professionals) appears somewhat high for the current level of
operations, but should facilitate the handling of an increase in activities
expected for the near future. Professional staff is well diversified and
COFIDE's professionalism is respected more and more by other government agencies.
Staff turnover has been moderate thus far.
4.05      Management recently made a series of organizational improvements.
These have tended to strengthen COFIDE's organization and control, particularly
in the Finance and Social Property Divisions, the performance of which had been
a matter of concern in the past. However, COFIDE's financial planning and
internal reporting systems are not yet fully geared to the increasing complexity
of its operations. The proposed association with the Bank is expected to further
improvements in these and other areas over time.
B.        Operational Policies and Procedures
4.06      Since existing policies of COFIDE provided relatively little operational
guidance in several important areas, COFIDE (with Bank assistance) prepared a
comprehensive Policy Statement (summarized in Annex 5), focusing on its development
banking functions. It was approved by COFIDE's Board on August 13, 1975. While in
its present form the Policy Statement cannot yet be fully endorsed, 1/ COFIDE is
expected to move towards a solution of outstanding issues. In this the Bank would
lend assistance and advice to the extent necessary. A separate Statement of Operating
Policies and Procedures (Annex 4) would govern the operations of the Fund (para. 5.09).
4.07      COFIDE appraises all projects submitted to it for financing, with emphasis
on financial, technical and marketing aspects. Overall, appraisal reports are of
good quality, except that most do not yet contain a thorough economic evaluation.
However, the proposed loan is expected to help correct this deficiency. Also, there
is a need to pay more attention to the project implementation capacity of investment
enterprises. On balance, COFIDE's appraisal capacity is sufficiently strong to
entrust it with allocating the proceeds of the proposed loan.
4.08      COFIDE only recently introduced economic appraisal on a trial basis.  While
the law creating it did not specifically foresee that COFIDE would concern itself
with the economic justification of projects, COFIDE's Policy Statement corrected this
situation. The Government's desire that COFIDE apply economic tests increasingly as
decision-making criteria for project financing was confirmed during negotiations.
IERR tests to correct the distortions mentioned in Dara. 2.17 would be aDnlied to
all Bank-financed projects as a minimum, but are expected to be carried out for an
increasing number of other projects receiving COFIDE financing. A seminar on this
subject was held in July 1976 (para. 5.02).
4.09      With COFIDE giving increasing attention to  follow-up, supervision procedures
are generally satisfactory (Annex 14). Thus far, COFIDE has been devoting most of
its promotional and technical assistance activities and financing of preinvestment
studies to EPS creation. The focus of its promotional activities is likely to be
more dispersed among different subsectors in the future.
1/ Mainly due to the absence of a clear definition of COFIDE's involvement in holding
state companies,neither specific policies on these activities nor fully satisfactory
financial policies could be included in the Policy Statement; thus, it would not
form part of the contractual arrangements under the proposed loan.



- 19 -
4.10      While COFIDE had been giving relatively little attention to procurement
decisions, it now intends to gradually strengthen its procedures by requiring
several quotations for all procurement and insisting on international procurement
for large projects, as feasible. For all Bank-financed projects, as a minimum,
COFIDE would satisfy itself that the goods and services to be purchased are
suitable for the investment project and are reasonably priced and it would provide
the rationale for procurement in all subloan appraisals (para. 5.07). Disbursement
procedures are sufficient to ensure that funds are used for their intended purpose.
Loan collection procedures are also satisfactory.
C.        Role of COFIDE
4.11      One major reason for COFIDE's creation was to coordinate decision making
for all state enterprise financing. Thus, COFIDE initially was to own the
Government's share in all state enterprises. When this task proved to be difficult
for the new institution,   subsequent legislation provided that COFIDE would have
neither management nor profit and loss responsibility for these enterprises but
only hold their shares in custody. 11 However, a decree of August 1974 assigned
to COFIDE full ownership, profit and loss responsibility, and a 'decisive vote"
in the financing decision of four major state manufacturing and tourism enterprises,
namely SIDERPERU (steel), INDUPERU (general manufacturing), ENTURPERU (tourism),
and EPPAPERU (artisanal activity). These, in turn9 acting as second-tier holding
companies, have been assigned ownership of all state enterprises in the industrial
and tourism sectors. However, ministerial rulings defining COFIDE's holding
company responsi'bilities have yet Lo be issued.
4.12      Existing uncertainties about COFIDE's future holding company role raise
several important questions. Most important, since the share transfer to COFIDE
would convert it into a predominantly industrial conglomerate with some development
banking functions, appropriate policies and satisfactory financial and organizational
arrangements would need to be devised to avoid excessive concentration of financial
and operational risks for COFIDE.
4.13      As indicated in para. 2.21, substantial influence is exercised by other
government agencies on COFIDE's public sector project financing decisions. As a
state enterprise, COFIDE is subject to the public sector planning and control system.
Thus COFIDE's budget depends substantially on projects included in the previously
approved budgets of other state enterprises, which COFIDE is then expected to finance,
and its own budget must be approved by MEF in addition to COFIDE's Board.  There are
also the very substantial operations which COFIDE performs on the Government's behalf
(para. 4.22). While COFIDE thus has clear ex ante limitations in its financial
planning and investment decision making, COFIDE has generally been exercising
reasonable autonomy in rejecting, or at least modifying, projects it considered not
to be viable or to involve excessive risks.
1/ As of December 31, 1975, these comprised S/.45.2 billion in nominal share capital
of companies in the manufacturing and extractive industries, public utilities,
banking, tourism, services, and trading sectors. These holdings do not form part
of COFIDE's financial statements.



- 20 -
4.14       While COFIDE has been assigned-an important role in promoting EPSs,
its financing decisions (including preinvestment studies) are interdependent
with the activities of CONAPS and FONAPS. Up to now, FONAPS, without technical
staff of its own, has relied exclusively on COFIDE's appraisals of project
proposals. This situation, however, is likely to change as FONAPS builds up
its own technical staff (para. 3.07). However, with COFIDE's representation on
the administrative board of FONAPS, sound development banking criteria should
continue to be important for EPS financing decisions.
4.15       Some projects presented to COFIDE in the future may continue to be too
advanced to be rejected or modified, COFIDE's function being limited to providing
adequate financing. To strengthen its role in the investment decision-making
process and to have a better basis for its own financial planning, COFIDE needs
to get involved at an early stage in project preparation, particularly of state
and social property enterprises. This is being recognized increasingly by the
Peruvian authorities.
D.         Resources
4.16       Up to 1972, COFIDE relied mainly on its equity for its own financing
operations. Since then, COFIDE gained access to additional resources and its
borrowings increased rapidly from S/. 182.9 million to S/. 11.1 billion as of
December 31, 1975. By that date, COFIDE had mobilized S/. 19.6 billion, of which
26.0% in equity, 7.1% through issues of bonds and certificates of deposits, and
66.9% through foreign borrowings. So far, paid-in capital and retained earnings
have provided the bulk of COFIDE's local currency resources; the remainder came from
tax-exempt bonds, bonds issued by COFIDE on the Government's behalf to pay for
enterprises whose activities are reserved for the state, tax-free temporary
deposits mainly by productive enterprises for investment into high priority
productive projects, and deposits from industrial communities. The foreign resources
consist of a wide variety of borrowings from commercial banks and export credit
agencies, and Canadian and Dutch development credits at concessional terms. While
most foreign financing thus far has been for specific projects, COFIDE also
obtained recently credit lines for general project financing, mostly tied to
specific country procurement. All of COFIDE's foreign borrowings have to be
authorized by Supreme Decree.
E.         Financial Position and Results
4.17       As of September 30, 1976, almost 70% of COFIDE's loan portfolio was
still in the disbursement and/or grace period stage (Annex 15). Arrearage,
reschedulings and write-offs have been minimal. On the other hand, there is a
substantial concentration of potential risk in COFIDE's portfolio. 1/
_/  As of September 30, 1976, COFIDE's exposure (loans and guarantees on COFIDE's
own account) in PETRCPERU, the state-owned petroleum company, was equivalent to
89.8%, and in MINEROPERU to 35% of COFIDE's own equity. In addition, COFIDE
had given guarantees on behalf of the Government for loans to the state-owned
companies PETROPERU, ELECTROPERU and MINEROPERU, eouivalent to 496.0%, 77.8X
and 67.5%, respectively, of COFIDE's own equity.



- 21 -
4.18      As of September 30, 1976, COFIDE held 25 equity investments (exclusive
of the state holding companies, see Annex 12) totaling  SI. 3.0 billion,
equivalent to 41.3% of its own equity. The equity portfolio, consisting mainly
of minority holdings often in relatively new companies, was generally of good
quality. The auditors declined to give an opinion on the adequacy of SI. 26.8
million in loss provisions for equity investments at year-end 1975. To establish
their necessary level and to have a basis for a general provisions policy in the
future, COFIDE asked for a complete portfolio review in connection with its 1975
audit. Its results and their implications for COFIDE's financial policies will
be discussed prior to finalizing its 1976 audit.
4.19      COFIDE is subject to the control by the General Accounting Office
which in turn appoints annually independent auditing firms to audit COFIDE's
accounts. Past audit reports have been qualified regarding the carrying value of
COFIDE's equity (1972, 1973, and 1975) and equity and loan portfolios
(1974). While all three firms appointed thus far would have been satisfactory,
there is a need to improve substantially the scope and quality of the auditors'
work, particularly regarding analysis of loan, equity investment and guarantee
portfolios, loss provisions, liquidity structure and profitability. During
negotiations COFIDE agreed to employ the services of independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and to have them prepare annually full audit reports
(following the long form format for DFCs associated with the Bank) on (a) COFIDE
only; (b) COFIDE consolidated with its subsidiaries, once the state enterprise
holding company legislation has been implemented; and (c) the operations and
financial position of the Fund (para. 5.08).
4.20      Comparative balance sheets for 1971 to  1975 (Annex 17) which exclude
COFIDE's shares in the state holding companies, indicate an acceptable financial
position. During that period COFIDE's loan and equity portfolio grew rapidly,
from S/. 0.18 billion to SI. 14.8 billion. Reflecting sharply increasing foreign
borrowings, mainly since 1973, COFIDE's total debt-to-equity ratio jumped from
0.5:1 in 1972 to a still rather low 2.7:1 in 1975. A contractual 5:1
debt to equity limitation (for COFIDE and its financial subsidiaries) would ensure a
sound financial structure for COFIDE in the future. Except for 1974, the company
has been maintaining an adequate, although rather tight, liquidity position. In
future, the Government would assure sufficient liquidity for COFIDE to meet its
obligations.
4.21      Income statements for 1971 to 1975 (Annex 18) show a correspondingly rapid
increase in revenues and administrative expenses. In 1975, the latter were equivalent
to 1.7% of total assets,which although somewhat high is not excessive. However,
with returns on equity between 1.7% and 4.7% during 1972-75, COFIDE's profitability
has been substantially below annual inflation (of about 24% in 1975), resulting in
an erosion of capital in real terms. Income has been affected by COFIDE's rather
low local currency lending rates and commissions on foreign exchange loans; this
had been made possible only by its present low-cost capital structure. There is
a clear need for COFIDE in the future to charge local currency relending rates
reflecting the opportunity cost of capital in Peru. This would tend to offset the
erosion of equity through inflation and would improve COFIDE's capacity to mobilize
and allocate resources more effectively. All of COFIDE's local currency relending
rates have recently been increased by 3.5% (Annex 16). During negotiations, it was
agreed that COFIDE would adjust its interest rate structure to reflect changing
capital market conditions and achieve a satisfactory return on its equity.



- 22 -
F.        Past Operations
4.22      Despite its still relatively small size as the Government's main instrument
for project financing of state enterprises (total assets of US$359 million
equivalent as of year-end 1975) and short period of operations, COFIDE has made an
important contribution to Peruvian productive sector development. Within less
than six years, COFIDE has approved 495 operations totaling S/. 116.3 billion (Annexes
8 and 9). Guarantees given and letters of credit issued by COFIDE on behalf of
the Government accounted for over one half (52%) of total approvals, followed by
COFIDE loans (26%) and guarantees on its own account (18%), and equity investments
and transitory capital contributions (2%). Almost one half each of COFIDE's out-
standing own portfolio is with state and private sector enterprises (Annex 11), but
the latter include a number of firms which are, in effect, government-owned or
controlled. The large number and wide sectoral and geographic coverage of pre-
investment studies financed (Annex 13) indicates COFIDE's extensive efforts in the
generation of new projects.
4.23      In analyzing past approvals (Annexes 8 to 10),it is important to distinguish
between COFIDEts own operations (predominantly loans) and those performed on the
Government's behalf. Since the latter, which are weighted heavily by a few very
large guarantee operations, are less representative of COFIDE's development
banking activities, the following analysis concentrates entirely on COFIDE's own
operations. Loan recipients (Annex 10) represent a wide range of sectors.
Manufacturing industry (30%) received the most, followed by petroleum (23%),
transportation (13%), mining (11%), communications (8%), and energy (7%).
Reflecting the relatively large size of loans to some public and established private
companies, the size distribution of loans approved is quite skewed: loans of up
to SI. 200 million account for 85% of the number of loans approved, but only 32% of
the total loan amount. Almost nine tenths of its lending has been for fixed capital
requirements.  With less than one quarter for the Lima-Callao area, there has been
no undue geographic concentration of lending. Finally, 85% of COFIDE's lending had
final maturities in excess of five, and most of the remainder, between three and
five years.
G.        Economic Impact
4.24      The preceding discussion of COFIDE's past operations gives some indication
of its significant economic impact. Due to a lack of comprehensive data, it is
virtually impossible, however, to quantify this contribution and to measure its
benefits with any degree of precision. 1/ COFIDE is becoming increasingly aware of
the need to prepare and record systematically, for all its projects, economic
indicators like direct employment generation, cost of fixed investment per job created
and net foreign exchange earnings/savings. Ex ante partial economic indicators for
a small sample of projects reviewed by the mission give reason to believe that most
were quite acceptable in economic terms.
1/ One measure of COFIDE's economic impact is the estimated 23% participation of
COFIDE's own and COFIDE-arranged financing in the total fixed new industrial
sector investment by state enterprises.



- 23 -
H.         Projections
4.25       Forecast of operations.  COFIDE's operational forecasts are largely
based on the approved budgets of other state enterprises, and thus, to some
extent, the translation of Peru's industrial development plan into effective
financial decisions and physical implementation. Very tentative and highly
optimistic projections prepared by COFIDE for the period ending 1978 appear
in Annexes 17-20. They do not include the assets, liabilities and financial
results of the four state holding companies. 1/
4.26       COFIDE expects its lending operations to rise rapidly over the next
three years, with disbursements reaching S/. 18.4 billion in 1978, compared with
S/.6.2 billion in 1975, and S/. 4.3 billion in 1974. To achieve its highly
ambitious operational forecasts and maintain an acceptable financial structure
through 1978, COFIDE would need to mobilize for its own operations as much as
SJ. 43.8 billion net of repayments in new borrowings and S/. 2.4 billion in
equity. 2/ While no sufficient data are available to revise COFIDE's projections,
they will have to be reduced very substantially, particularly given Peru's present
economic environment. However, COFIDE is expected to continue to benefit from
strong government support and maintain a satisfactory financial and resource
position throughout the forecast period.
V. THE PROJECT
A.         Background and Objectives
5.01       At the Government's request, the Bank has agreed to consider granting the
proposed US$35 million loan directly to COFIDE. The proposed loan amount (which
is quite small relative to COFIDE's other resources) is supported by a mission survey
of the likely demand for foreign exchange funds and a tentative COFIDE project list.
5.02       A principal goal of the project would be to help improve COFIDE's resource
allocation ability, mainly by taking increasingly into account in its consideration
of investment proposals Peru's comparative advantages. Although IERR tests would be
mandatory only for Bank-financed projects, it is expected that economic analysis of
projects will spread within COFIDE, and possibly, to other government agencies
1/ Separate highly tentative COFIDE estimates of the effects, through 1984, of the
proposed transfer of state holding companies to COFIDE indicate a possible
strengthening of COFIDE's consolidated financial position. However, it is not clear
whether this transfer could increase COFIDE's consolidated borrowing capacity in
the long run as expected by COFIDE. There would also be important changes in
COFIDE's organization and administrative structure, the effects of which have not
been considered in COFIDE's projections.
2! To support its local currency operations, COFIDE hopes to make increasing use of
Central Reserve Bank borrowings. The possibility of increased resource mobilization
in the local market is unclear and would depend on the Treasury's overall fund-
raising plans as well as on the borrowing rates offered by COFIDE. The proposed
Bank loan would only be equivalent to some 4% of COFIDE's projected foreign
exchange disbursements during the next three years.



- 24 -
concerned with decision making, such as INP and the sectoral planning offices in
other ministries, and MEF.  In July 1976, Bank staff conducted a seminar at COFIDE
in which the Bank-recommended IERR test was applied to a sample of COFIDE projects.
NEF and INP participated in the seminar. COFIDE would apply analysis in line with
IERR guidelines (acceptable to both the Bank and COFIDE) to all Bank-financed sub-
projects, as a minimum.
5.03      During project implementation, COFIDE would expand its in-house training
capability to include expertise on assessing economic efficiency, to strengthen
the project appraisal capacity of its own staff (and,as far as possible, the
staff of other government agencies). The Bank would assist actively, making available
teaching material and staff support for this purpose. Given the limited experience
which exists in Peru in promoting, implementing and managing EPSs, there is also
a need for systematic training and technical assistance in this field. Part of
the spread on foreign currency subloans accruing to the Fund could be withdrawn
for the above training and technical assistance purposes (para. 5.07). Since the
spread will only accrue gradually while training and technical assistance needs
will be greatest early in the project's life, COFIDE would advance training and
technical assistance funding initially from its own resources. It would then be
reimbursed as soon as sufficient funds under the interest differential have been
generated.
5.04      During project preparation, Bank staff has had extensive discussions with
the Government on industrial and interest rate policies,which are expected to be
continued during loan implementation. The Government has began to make important
improvements (paras. 2.04, 2.16 and 2.32), particularly as balance of payments and
fiscal considerations have become increasingly important.
B.        Project Description
5.05      The proposed loan would be made on terms and conditions usual for  Bank
loans to DFCs, including the standard commitment charge.  It would assist in covering
the foreign exchange component of economically efficient projects which are
expected to have a favorable balance of payments impact, preferably through export
earnings but also through efficient import substitution. To maximize the expected
demonstration effect of economic efficiency tests, a wide range of manufacturing and
processing projects in the industrial, agroindustrial, and mining sectors, and
tourism projects 1/ would be eligible. Beneficiaries would include state, private,
reformed private and social property enterprises, mostly in the medium- and large-
size range. However, no more than US$10.5 million (i.e. 30% of the total loan amount)
could be re-lent to EPSs, as the concepts of social property and Peruvian-type self-
management are still in an early experimental stage, and COFIDE does not have much
experience in this field. For the same reason, all subloans to EPSs would require
Bank approval, whereas a "free-limit" of US$500,000 would apply to other subprojects.
This limit may appear high, but it is justified by COFIDE's operating experience,
the high average size (US$2.6 million equivalent) of its project lending and the
expected average subloan size of almost US$1 million. Finally, to avoid excessive
concentration in relending Bank funds, a maximum limit of US$4.0 million per sub-
loan and subborrower would apply.
1/ Due to their low foreign exchange component and expected small number, tourism
projects are only expected to absorb a small part of the proposed loan.



- 25 -
5.06      Subloan terms are expected to range between 5 and 15 years, with an
average life of about 9 years. Grace periods, included in these terms, would
vary between 1 and 3 years. These terms should be sufficient for any of the
rather complex subproject proposals expected, many of which may be for new
enterprises. Since it is difficult to predict accurately the likely wide variety
of subloan terms, the usual composite amortization schedule for Bank DFC loans
would apply. The terminal date for submission of subproject proposals under the
loan would be June 30, 1979; the closing date for disbursements, June 30, 1981.
Annex 21 shows the estimated schedule of disbursements.
5.07      The loan proceeds would be re-lent in foreign exchange, following COFIDE's
policy of not assuming any foreign currency risk, at a fixed interest rate of not
less than 11% p.a. Contrary to COFIDE's present practice, there would be no
differentiation in relending rate by the ownership, location or sectoral priority
of recipient enterprises. COFIDE would receive an administrative fee not in excess
of  1.5% p.a.    The remainder of the spread between the cost of Bank funds and
the ultimate relending rate would accrue to the Fund, but would be available to
finance training and technical assistance programs, generally on a non-reimbursable
basis. Eligible programs would include training in project evaluation of the staff
of COFIDE and of other government and financial agencies involved in productive
sector investment decision making; training of COFIDE staff in other operational
matters; and technical assistance and training for promoting, implementing and
managing EPSs. Disbursements and procurement procedures would be similar to those
adopted under standard DFC loans. Subloans would cover up to 100% of the import
component of subprojects. In most cases, they would finance the direct foreign
exchange cost of equipment imports--including goods purchases "off-the-shelf"
from domestic distributors, provided c.i.f. prices can be established. Otherwise,
50% of the documented local expenditures for manufacturing and processing projects
and 35% for tourism projects and projects involving industrial construction would
be reimbursed, unless a higher foreign exchange component of a specific project
can be established. The above percentages represent the estimated foreiRn
exchange component of eligible projects. COFIDE would satisfy itself that the goods
and services financed are appropriate in quality and competitive in price.
C.       The Fund Approach and COFIDE's Role
5.08      COFIDE would deposit the loan proceeds, together with the local currency
counterpart funds to be provided by it, into a Fund, which is a separate account to
be established within COFIDE's financial statements. This mechanism was conceived
in response to the uncertainty created by COFIDE's possible holding company role.
Although the Fund would not be legally separate from the rest of COFIDE it would
have its own resources which could only be used for defined purposes. Deviation
of the Fund's resources to other ends would be an event of default.
5.09      The operations of the Fund would be governed by a separate policy statement
fully acceptable to the Bank (Annex 4) which could only be ainendeA with the 1Rank's
approval. Establishment of the Fund would be a condition of loan effectiveness.



- 26 -
5.10      According to the draft Fund Policy Statement, the minimum initial ratio
between foreign exchange disbursements and COFIDE's local currency contribution
would be 2:1. 1/   The share of funds provided by COFIDE may gradually increase as
the proposed loan is being repaid (and possible other foreign currency borrowings).
Only those repayments of local currency subloans not needed for servicing the
Fund's obligations could be re-lent on a revolving basis. This should provide a
sufficient liquidity buffer. The Fund's local currency resources would be used
either to complement the financing of Bank-supported projects, as needed, or for
other projects.
5.11      The Fund would be administered by regular COFIDE staff.  For this purpose,
COFIDE would maintain qualified staff in sufficient numb--~s.  Subloans would be
made on the basis of detailed evaluations of the technical, market, financial and
economic aspects of each project, and of the management capacity and creditworthiness
of the recipient enterprise. COFIDE's normal project approval procedures would
apply. Interest charges on local currency loans would be in line with COFIDE's
own rate schedule. The Fund Policy Statement further establishes the maximum
lending exposure of the Fund to any one enterprise (15% of the total resources
committed to the Fund), the Fund's minimum and maximum allowable financial
contribution to any one project (25% and 75% of total project cost, respectively),
and a minimum four-year maturity for both fixed asset and permanent working capital
financing.
5.12      COFIDE would closely supervise all of the Fund's subloans and all borrowers
would have to present annual independent audit reports of their accounts. COFIDE
would maintain appropriate records of the Fund's operations and COFIDE's external
auditors would prepare annually a separate report on the Fund's accounts, acceptable
to the Bank (para. 4.19).
D.        Project Benefits and Risks
5.13      While the project's direct and indirect benefits are difficult to quantify,
achieving its objectives would provide important advantages. The project would
provide financing for some 35 to 50 development projects in a wide range of
productive subsectors. Eligible subprojects are expected to be efficient in economic
terms and to have a substantial positive balance of payments impact, preferably
through increasing exports. While no formal cut-off rate would be established, the
guidelines for calculating the IERR require a special justification for subprojects
with a return below 10%. It is hoped that the application of systematic economic
tests will spread to project decision making by COFIDE and other government agencies.
5.14      Although the Bank does not fully assess COFIDE's creditworthiness, the
proposed loan would open a direct relationship which in most other aspects resembles
that between the Bank and a DFC borrowing from it. Thus the project would contribute
to strengthening COFIDE, the Government's main financial institution for productive
sector development, mainly by helping it improve its capacity to mobilize and allocate
resources, increase its autonomy and importance in Peru's productive sector development
planning and investment decision-making process, and by strengthening its effectiveness
as a development bank 2/.
1/ This ratio approximates the expected proportion of the Fund's foreign and local
currency exchange financing and should provide sufficient cash flow for the
Fund's debt service. COFIDE would charge reasonable interest on its local currency
contribution.
2/ Mainly through gradually achieving greater independence in COFIDE's financial planning,
improvements in its audits and operating policies, and clarification of its holding
company role.



- 27 -
5.15      The Fund would assure use of the loan according to operating policies
fully acceptable to the Bank and, since the Fund is endowed with its own resources,
it would, to a certain degree, be financially independent from COFIDE's other
operations. However, the Bank does not seek a privileged position versus other
lenders to COFIDE and therefore ultimately it relies for financial security on
the Government's u-dertaking to honor all of COFIDE's obligations.
5.16      The project would also afford a good opportunity to intensify the
useful discussions between the Bank and the Government on industrial and interest
rate policies. Finally, not enough is known to determine the best way of
assisting EPS development. The project would enable the Bank to learn from direct
experience about this innovative self-management system and to get involved early
in a sector which may play an important role in Peru's future development.
5.17      Current uncertainties regarding industrial sector development are
unusually high because of ongoing institutional and policy changes. However,
project risks are not higher than usual for a DFC-type operation because of three
special loan features. First, the Fund arranfgement would segregate the Bank
loan from all other funds and accounts of COFIDE; secondly, the Government would
assure COFIDE's liquidity and a sound financial structure; and finally, all subloans
to the new SPS would be subject to Bank review.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) the Government's assuring sufficient liquidity for COFIDE
to meet its obligations (para. 4.20);
(b) criteria for future adjustments of COFIDE's interest rates
(para. 4.21) and relending terms and conditions for the
proposed loan (para. 5.05 to 5.12);
(c) application of IERR tests by COFIDE in line with guidelines
acceptable to the Bank and COFIDE, as a minimum for all Bank
financed projects (para. 5.02);
(d) a maximum 5:1 debt to equity limitation for COFIDE (para. 4.20);
(e)  the training and technical assistance arrangements (paras. 5.03
and 5.07); and
(f) local currency contribution to the Fund (para. 5.10).
6.02      A condition of effectiveness of the loan is that the Fund has been established
(para. 5.09).
6.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$35.0 million to COFIDE on the terms and conditions outlined in Chapter V.



PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO                                                     ANNEX1
Organization Chart as of September 30, 1975
IBOARD OF DIRECTORSI
IPRESIDENT -ING. OSCAR ESPINOSA 8BI
INTERNAL AUD1TOR |
|MANAGEMENT COMMITTEEI
|  GENERAL MANAGER      I
|GENERAL SECRETARY F                   |    LEGAL ADVIS7ER 
D EPARTMENT                               TECHNICAL ADVISER|
DOCUMENTATION AND                         OPERtATIONS
PUBLIC RELATIONS                          RATIONALIZATION
DEPARTMENT                                DEPARTMENT
I ORGANIZATIO
SYSTEMS AND
METHODS UNI
|FINANCIAL DIVISION |        OLPERATIONS DIVISION           SOCL   PROPERTYm            TECHNICAL DIVISION |IVISTRAIONA 
FINANCIAL                   FIHNINDSRA                                                METAL         I
= PLANNING                     INDUSTRIES                   PROJECTS                     WORKING AND
DEPARTMENT                    PROJECTS                     DEPARTMENT                   STEEL INDUS-
!                     ~      ~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT                                    TRIES
D OMESTIC                                                AGRO-INDUSTRIAL                DEPARTMENT
FINANCING                    COMMERCE                   PROJECTS
IDEPARTMENT                  AND CHEMI-                  DEPARTMENT                       NEAS
DEPARTMENT                                                CEMENT AND
PLANNING AND                  ELECTRICITY
ACCOUNTING                                                TECHNICAL      IPROJECTS.
r DEPARTMENT                IMINING AND   IASSISTANCE    IDEPARTMENT
I                     J  ~~~~~~~PETROLEUM    IDEPARiTMENT I
I                     I  ~~~~~~~PROJECTS II
II CASHIER'S                   D  EPARTMENT  I                                         AR-NUTIESI
r  UNIT        IXDPRMN 
IIOPERIATIONS                                                                         IHYDRO_ 
CONTROL        IICARBONS,                                                                             I
L    TATION, AND I
ITELECOMMU-I
INICATIONS     I
IDEPARTMENT  IWorld B.nk-15861
LCPDF
December, 1976



PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Board of Directors, as of December 31, 1975
Representing                               Name                                  Principal Occupation
"All Shares:
Ministry of Econony and Finance          Dr. Oscar Espinosa Bedoya             President of the Board, COFIDE
Ministry of Economy and Finance          Dr. Oscar Alban Moral                 General Director, Financial Affairs
Ministry of Industry and Tourism         Dr. Gil Indacochea Queirolo           Vice-President of the Board, COFIDE
Ministry of Energy and Mines             One Director-not appointed
Ministry of Fisheries                    Ing. Oscar Boero Villavicencio        General Director of Fish Exploitation
Ministry of Agriculture                  Ing. Jaime Paredes Castillo           Director, Budget Plan. and Eval. Office
Ministry of Commerce                     Ing. Enrique Fernandez Vargas         Chief, Planning Sector Office
National Securities Market Commission   Dr. Fernando Nunez del Arco
Montezuma                        President
National Planning Institute              Ing. Alejandro Seminario Duany        Deputy Coordinator, Technical Office
Naticnal Integration Office              Ing. Luciano Silva Cisneros           General Director
Central Reserve Bank of Peru             Dr. Fernando Reus Salinas             General Manager, Public Credits
Bank of the Nation                       Dr. Marco Antonio Pajuelo Ruiz        General Manager
"B" Shares
State Banks]/                            Sr. Juan Villanes Hernandez           Manager, Central Administrative and
Planning, Banco Continental
"D" Shares
Banco Industrial2/                       One Director-not yet appointed
These shares have been subscribed and, although none has been paid in, are entitled to a representlative on the Board.
g In representation of private shareholders in part payment of the Agrarian Reform Debt.
LCPDF
December, 1976



ANNEX 3
PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Members of Management Committee, as of December 31, 1975
Guillermo van Oordt Parodi                  General Manager (Chairman of the
Management Committee)
John Hartley Moran                          Manager, Operations Division
Pedro Mac Kee Priale                        Manager, Finance Division
Carlos Torres Llosa                         Manager, Social Property Division
Rector Tapia Cano                           Manager, Technical Division
Jaime Araoz Basurco                         Manager, International Division
Enrique Valdivia Benavides                  Manager, Systems Unit
Alfredo Ross Antezana -/                    Assistant General Manager
Eduardo Rossenfeld -/                       Assistant Manager, a.i., Operations
Division
Rafael Longhi Nunez 1/                      Assistant Manager, Social Property
Division
Alejandro de la Fuente Lutterbach -         Chief Technical Assessor
Pedro Coronado Labo                         Chief Legal Assessor
Fernando Barco Massa -                      General Secretary (Secretary of the
Management Committee)
1/   These members can vote only upon the recommendation to the Board of Directors
of COFIDE and the Administrative Committee of FONAPS.
LCPDF
December, 1976



Page I of 4
PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Draft Operating Policies and Procedures of the Fund
1.     The Fund is established to provide loans for investment projects in
industrial processing (in a wide sense) and tourism industries, which
are selected by COFIDE, and contribute to the country's economic and
social development in accordance with the priorities set in the
development plans, and include the various kinds of enterprises that
exist in Peru.
2.     The resources of the Fund consist of those allocated to it by COFIDE,
including both foreign currency resources, particularly such as
COFIDE obtains from the World Bank, and the local currency counterpart
contribution required for the financing of the investment projects,
which shall amount to at least 50% of the foreign currency amount at
the exchange rate prevailing at the time of each individual disbursement;
and the earnings of the Fund.
3.     The resources of the Fund shall be used exclusively:
(a) to make loans to finance productive projects in accordance
with these regulations on policies and operations;
(b) to repay the principal of, and pay interest and other charges
on, foreign currency loans obtained by COFIDE for allocation
to the Fund;
(c) to withdraw interest on the local currency contributions of
COFIDE to the Fund;
(d) to pay for the costs of training and technical assistance
programs; and
(e) to withdraw a service charge for COFIDE.
4.     COFIDE shall maintain an adequate trained staff, together with an effi-
cient organizational structure, for the activities related to the Fund's
operations.
5.     Approval of loans from resources of the Fund shall be governed by rules
and procedures laid down by COFIDE.



AIAIAA X
Page 2 of 4
6.      Investment projects shall be selected from among opportunities for
establishment of new, or for expansion and modernization of existing
state enterprises, social-property enterprises, production cooperatives,
reformed private enterprises and private enterprises.
7.      The investment projects shall be diversified in terms of types of enter-
prises and numbers of projects. Fund financing for one project or the
total of several projects of one firm shall not exceed 15% of the
Fund's total committee resources.
8.      COFIDE shall require, as a condition precedent, that the enterprises
submit plans that ensure both that the project will be fully financed
and that the enterprise will have a suitable financial structure. The
amount of financing from Fund resources shall be sufficient to ensure
the success of the project, provided that the total financial assistance
furnished by COFIDE from such resources shall not exceed 75% of the
total cost of the project and shall in no case be less than 25% of
such cost.
9.      The investment projects shall be subjected to detailed appraisal of
their technical feasibility, market aspects and financial and socio-
economic justification, and of the administrative capacity, financial
solvency and capability of thie loan recipient. Appraisal of these
aspects shall in particular be based on the following criteria:
(a) a satisfactory rate of financial and socio-economic return
according to detailed and realistic estimates of project
cost, income and benefits;
(b) tompliance with the criteria of technical feasibility, markets,
and suitable managerial and administrative capacity of the
investing enterprise for execution and operation of the project;
(c) as a general policy, projects shall not be financed whose rates
of financial and economic return are below the minimum rate of
return established in the guidelines for calculation of economic
rates of return approved by management;
(d) in the appraisal of the financial aspects, it shall be verified that
the projected operating surplus is sufficient to sustain an appro-
priate net working capital position during the useful life of
the project and to meet debt-service needs.
10.     COFIDE shall make sure that goods and services for projects financed by
the Fund are obtained by means of suitable bidding competitions which
allow to make comparisons, so as to ensure best prices and optimum
quality.



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
11.     Fund resources may be used to finance purchases of fixed assets
and/or permanent working capital, but in no circumstances shall
the loans be for a term of less than four years. Financing of
projects from Fund resources shall take due account of the re-
payment capacity of the enterprise and the generation of funds
by the project and shall carry such maximum amortization terms and
grace periods as the Board of Directors of COFIDE shall prescribe.
12.     The rates of interest and commitment fee for local and/or foreign
currency operations shall be laid down periodically by the Board
of Directors of COFIDE within the policies established by the
Government, taking into consideration the situation on the
capital market, the cost of capital for the Fund's resources and
a reasonable profit.
13.     The first disbursement of a loan from Fund resources shall be
conditional upon prior signature of the loan agreement and delivery
by the enterprise of all legal and technical documentation required for
that purpose. In all cases it shall be a condition of disbursements
that the beneficiary shall demonstrate the purpose of the funds and
show that it has complied with all requirements of these Regulations
and of the pertinent loan agreement.  In loans that it makes from Fund
resources, COFIDE shall carry out checks of the progress of the works
and of the quality of the goods and services obtained and shall make
progress inspections of the project and shall request additional
information or special audit reports (whenever necessary).
14.     COFIDE shall supervise the investment projects during the life of
the operation to ensure that its objectives are being accomplished.
It shall carefully follow the progress of the projects, requesting
the necessary information about the economic and administrative
developments of the enterprises. The latter must submit audited
annual financial statements.
15.     COFIDE may withdraw from the Fund account, for itself, a specific
service charge in the form of a percentage of the loans it grants
from Fund resources and pay for the cost of training and technical
assistance. However, the service charge and the expenses of
training and technical assistance mentioned above may be withdrawn
from the Fund only on condition that sufficient funds exist for
disbursement of the commitments incurred and/or for repayments that
COFIDE has to make to its lenders against loans obtained by it for
allocation to the Fund.
16.     In loans made from Fund resources, COFIDE shall not assume, either
directly or indirectly, the exchange risk, which shall be passed
on to the borrower or covered without risk by means of other
mechanisms.



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
17.     The Fund Account shall be a separate account in COFIDE's accounting
system. COFIDE shall maintain suitable accounting and operational
records, providing proper information about each investment project
and about the operations relating to the Fund.
18.     The annual external auditing of COFIDE shall include a special report
on the Fund Account.
19.     The Fund may be liquidated, and its funds withdrawn, only by agreement
between COFIDE and any Fund creditors, or if there are none, by
resolution of the Board of Directors of COFIDE. In all cases the
net results shall be credited to COFIDE.
LCPDF
December, 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
PERU:  INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINkNCIERA DE DESARROLLO
9umvary of
Operating Policies of COFIDE
1/
(Approved by COFIDE's Board on August 13, 1975)
A. Purpose of the Corporation
To contribute to the economic and social development of the country, by
stimulating entrepreneurial activity in the various sectors of the economy and
by mobilizing savings and channeling them to the enterprises in accordance with
the national development plans.
B. General functions
(a) To coordinate the financial activities of the State in the
entrepreneurial sector.
(b) To encourage and promote the establishment, expansion and moder-
nization of enterprises of all kinds, particularly in the social-property
sector.
(c)  To provide medium and long term financing for priority investments.
In cases where the investments are undertaken by public enterprises, ODFIDE
is the sole authorized financial agent.
(d) To mobilize the necessary financial resources for accomplishment
of its objectives.
(e) To grant surety bonds and endorsements on behalf of enterprises
in guarantee of loans obtained by them outside Perua.
(f) To manage shares of enterprises, supervising the financial and
operational development of the enterprises in its portfolio, and to evaluate
them periodically.
(g) To support the capital markets by selling securities from its
portfolio, by issuing and placing its own bonds and by acting as underwriter
or trustee in the issue of shares, bonds and other securities of enterprises.
(h) To hold and/or administer, directly or indirectly, the State's
shares and participations in enterprises.
(i) To promote, finance and carry out preinvestment studies for business
projects, particularly those directed to the social-property sector.
I/ Any amendments require approval by at least two-thirds of the Board members.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
C. Resource-allocation policies
(a) Financing shall be provided for projects that make an essential
contribution to the country's economic and social development, in accordance
with the priorities laid down in the national development plans and the direc.
tives of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Specific policies shall be
defined from time to time; special priority will be accorded to projects
contributing to decentralization, strengthening of the social-property sector
and other priority activities.
(b) In addition, to qualify for financial assistance from COFIDE,
enterpriees shall meet the following requirements:
(i) Be in a sound financial position or have a satisfactory
plan for resolving their financial difficulties, and their projects
shall, as a minimum, have capacity for repayment; and
(ii) Possess sufficient managerial and technical capacity to
ensure the sound operation of the enterprise and implement the projects
to be financed or, failing this, to ensure contracting of competent
technical assistance.
(c) The Corporation shall promote preinvestment studies by granting loans
on preferential terms, and carrying the entire risk under certain conditions.
However, it shall in all cases seek to recoup its financing.
(d) The Corporation shall identify and promote projects of substantial
benefit to the country's development.
(e) To facilitate access by small and medium-scale business to the financial
resources of COFIDE, it shall carry out financial operations with and furnish
technical advisory assistance to financial intermediaries.
(f) The Corporation may carry out operations, directly or indirectly,
according to the needs of each enterprise, in the following forms:
(i) E4uity financing in the form of transitory capital financing
of social-property enterprises (through COFIDE loans to FONAPS) and
capital contributions to public and reformed private enterprises;
(ii) Loans in local currency and/or foreign currency for studies,
investment projects and, exceptionally, working capital; and
(iii) endorsements and surety bonds, and underwriting of securities.
(g) The Corporation's placements and investments must be diversified in
terms of economic sectors and types of financing.
(h) The projects shall be subjected to detailed appraisal of the financial,
market, administrative capacity, and technical and socio-economic feasibility
aspects. The socio-economic aspects shall be appraised by means of an analysis
system that uses calculations of economic rates of return or other similar
methods; and this factor shall become increasingly important in arriving at
decisions.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
(i) COFIDE may finance projects of national benefit by decision of the
State. In this case it shall carry out an appraisal of the market, administra-
tive capacity and technical and social-economic feasibility factors, placing
emphasis on the economic and financial aspects in order to determine the best
possible financial structure.
(j) For procurement of goods and services investment enterprises shall,
as far as possible, apply bidding or other procedures that allow proper com-
parisons to ensure best prices and optimum quality.
(k) Requests for financing must be supported by a technical, economic and
social feasibility study and a favorable opinion from the pertinent public
agencies.
(1) Investment enterprises shall submit plans that assure both the total
financing of the project and a suitable financial structure. The amount of
COFIDE financing shall be sufficient to ensure the success of the project,
provided that COFIDE's total financial assistance, direct or indirect, shall
not exceed 75% of the total cost of the project save in exceptional cases.
(m) In the case of reformed private enterprises in Lima and Callao, the
minimum amount of the first operation shall be SI. 40 million; and for the
decentralized enterprises, S/. 10 million.
(n) Loans and guarantees must be backed by sufficient collateral, the
feasibility and soundness of the project and by the standing of the entrepreneur.
Pablic enterprises shall allocate the necessary amounts in theirbiennial budgets
to meet debt-service obligations.
(o)  COFIDE shall invest in projects that by their profitability and sound-
ness will help to maintain the capital worth of the Corporation. It shall
provide equity capital both to enterprises with state participation, either
by legal prescription or on its own initiative, and to reformed private enter-
prises. In the latter two cases, the contribution shall preferably not exceed
30% of the corporate capital of the enterprise.
(p)  The Corporation shall not seek administrative control of the enterprises
it financies, but it shall supervise them to ensure that the purposes of the
investment are being accomplished throughout the duration of the operation. It
shall closely follow the progress of projects, requesting the necessary information
on the economic, financial and administrative operation of the enterprise. If
necessary, COFIDE shall provide appropriate assistance, directly or indirectly,
to ensure the sound operation of the firm or to enable its affairs to be put in
order and ensure the recoverability of the investment.
(q) Financing preinvestment studies shall be subject to an opinion
delivered by the public agencies concerning the priority-rating of the study and
to a minimum contribution of 20% by the borrower.
(r) COFIDE shall assume the entire investment risk in studies for projects
in the social-property sector and investments, identified either by the
Corporation itself or by other national public-sector institutions, designed
to promote regional development and included in the Regional Financing Program.



ANNEX5
Page 4 of 6
D. Policies for mobilizing resources
(a) In obtaining domestic and foreign financial resources COFIDE shall
seek to tap a wide range of resources and to compete with other securities
and financial agents. According to the requirements of its financing and
investment program, COFIDE shall obtain funds through: (i) capital contribu-
tions; (ii) placement of its own medium and long-term bonds on the domestic
and foreign markets; (iii) foreign-exchange borrowings; (iv) the Central Bank's
"Monetary Program"; (v) deposits from the "Industrial Communities" (vi) other
securities and credit obligations; and (vii) the income from its operations.
(b) In its activities to raise foreign-currency funds the Corporation shall
operate as: (i) borrower and direct obligor; (ii) borrower with guarantee of
the Peruvian State; (iii) financial agent representing the Peruvian State;
(iv) guarantor of enterprises; (v) guarantor, representing the Peruvian State;
and (vi) agent.
(c) To attract foreign-currency resources the Corporation shall seek the
most suitable financing structure, through a combination of the possibilities
offered by (i) government-to-government loans; (ii) loans from international
development agencies; (iii) export credits; and (iv) loans from banking insti-
tutions.
(d) When desirable, it shall separate the negotiations for supply and
service contracts from the financing negotiations, with a view to obtaining
the most favorable financial terms and conditions.
E. Financial management policies
(a) The Corporation shall maintain a budgeting system for the purpose of
preparing, coordinating and evaluating its biennial program of operations. This
shall be drawn up in conformity with the Biennial Plan of the national public
sector, the budget-related legislation and directives and COFID E's medium-term
planning. The purpose of the latter shall be to prepare, coordinate and review
COFIDE's objectives, policies, plans and programs and to determine investment
priorities and the sources of financing to be used. It shall be based on the
policy prescribed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance and shall conform to the
Medium-Term Development Plans.
(b) When circumstances permit, COFIDE shall assist expansion of the securi-
ties market through the placement of its bonds and of shares of enterprises held
in its portfolio.
(c) OOFIDE's total debt, including guarantees, less the amount of operations
carried out with the specific guarantee of the State or in representation of the
latter, shall not exceed five times its paid-up capital and reserves.
(d) COFIDE shall maintain its capacity to meet its obligations, on the
basis that the average maturity period of its placements shall be equal to or
less than the average term of its obligations.
(e) COFIDE shall diversify its investments and preferably shall not engage
in operations with a single enterprise in the social-property or reformed
private sectors for an amount of more than 20% of COFIDE's paid-up capital and
reserves. For that purpose, operations carried out with the specific guarantee
of or in representation of the State shall be excluded.



Page    of 6
(f) The total of COFIDEts share-capital investments shall not exceed
COFIDE's paid-up capital and reserves.
(g)  COFIDEfs financial policy shall aim at maintaining, so far as possi-
ble, the value of its capital in real terms. As a general rule all of the
Corporation's operations shall be profitable.
(h) The rates of interest and commitment charge for domestic and/or foreign
currency operations shall be set periodically by the Board of Directors, account
being taken of the situation on the capital market, the cost of COFIDE's capital
its operating costs and a reasonable profit.
(i) On loans and guarantees in foreign currency COFIDE shall receive a
specific commission as financial intermediary, passing on the interest and other
costs to its clients.
(j) In the case of foreign-exchange loans, guarantees and endorsements,
the Corporation shall not, either directly or indirectly, assume the exchange
risk, which shall be passed on to the borrower or covered without risk to
COFIDE by other mechanisms.
(k) COFIDE shall maintain reserves and provisions in conformity with proper
financial practices.  For this purpose it shall institute a portfolio evaluation
system that will enable it to make adequate reserves to cover the investment risk,
in addition to other types of accounting provisions and reserves. In the case
of' the public enterprises, the inclusion in their biennial budgets of provisions
for servicing of the debt to COFIDE shall be regarded as constituting sufficient
security.
F. Control of operations
(a) Loans and guarantees for fixed asset financing shall be subject to a
list of goods and services and a disbursement timetable, which shall form the
basis for control of the operation. At the request of the beneficiary the
Administration may agree to justify variations in the list and/or the timetable.
(b) Working-capital loans shall be subject to a cash-flow projection. The
disbursements shall be approved up to the total agreed amount, subject to sub-
mission by the beneficiary of the updated cash budgets justifying them.
G. Personnel managenent
(a) For the accomplishment of its purposes, the Corporation shall maintain
an adequate staff of trained personnel and an efficient organizational structure.
(b) The Corporation shall, in conformity with the legal provisions in
force, maintain a suitable system of remuneration, provide continuous training
of its staff and allocate resaurces for the instruction and professional develop-
ment of the staff.
H. Control of the Corporation
(a) The Board of Directors shall be responsible for control and supervision
of the operation of the Corporation and shall have sole authority to change the



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 6
Corporation's policies.
(b) The Corporation shall have an internal auditing department responsible
to the Board of Directors and shall arrange annually for external audit of its
financial statements by firms of independent auditors of recognized standing.
In both cases the Rules of the National Control system shall be observed.
LCPDF
December, 1976



PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Description of Share Capital
GO0V E RN ME NT              PRIVAE RGAINZATION & IJJ   UAJ~
Type "A" Shares!/ Type "B" Shares / TySe "C" Share X        oe I"D" Shares'       Total
Inception                      435,981                                  _                                     435,981
December 31, 1971             1,085,345              _               252,673               _                1,338,018
December 31, 1972            1,103,224               -               356,248            272,o401i           1,731,513
December 31, 1973            1,414,069               -               576,941            533,559             2,524,569
December 31, 1974            2,215,551               -               774,973            717,750             3,708,274
December 31, 1975            4,230,290               -                  -               816,7)9             5,047,039
Total Authorized as of
December 31, 1975           12,000,000         3,000,000                              3,000,000            18,000,000
2  Cormon "A" shares are reserved for the State and are non-transferable; they are not subject to cash dividends until
total authorized capital has been completely paid in; by law, Goverment must subscribe and pay in a minimum of
S/. 1 ,000 million every two years.
/ Conmmn "B" shares are reserved for the state banks and are non-transferable; they are not subject to cash dividends
until total authorized capital has been paid in; possibility of eliminating this category is under consideration.
/ Preferred "C" shares were reserved for enterprises or individuals under tax-exempt reinvestment-of-earnings scheme;
they were nominal, preferred as to a minimum 8% dividend. Private enterprises could invest free of income tax up
to 85% of their annual net income before tax in theae shares and individuals, the lower of 50% of their net income
or S/. 200,000 axcept that no enterprise or individual could own more than 5% of the total authorized "C" ahares
effective January 1, 1975.
g Common "D" shares are reserved for part payment of Agrarian Reform Debt through Banco Industrial del Peru; they
are nominal, and non-transferable for the first ten years from date of issue.
LCPDF
December, 1976



ANNEX 7
PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Total Resources as of December 31, 1975
(in millions of soles)
A. Equity (Paid-in Capital)
Type "A" Shares                                                  4,230
Type "C" Shares
Type "D" Shares                                                    817
Total Equity                                  5,047
B. Domestic Borrowings
Bonds Converted from Type "C" Shares                               697
Certificates of Deposit (from Industrial
Communities)                                                    264
Type "C" bonds                                                     264
Bonds of Decree Law 19311                                          170
Total                                         1,394
Total domestic resources                      6,442
C. Foreign Borrowings
Foreign credit through Government                                3,429
Direct dollar, eurodollar and other foreign credits              9,739
Total                                        13,168
Total Resources already at COFIDE's
disposal (A+B+C)                                             19,610
D. Resources made available to client companies
through COFIDE's guarantees                                 39,157
LCPDF
December, 1976



11X.17  71717 7. I 71
1172177 7'7 17117111771  11 171.7771L71 ~ ~ ~ ~      ~         ~        ~       ~       ~       Ag-am-                                                AT
!F.7117775177177757       177                               111                             ~          1711177    771-                                                                             75                   _ ___                    771-17171771777~71   7777177777I1117,177
14  A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ------- --   1  1  1- --  -   777  ---  - -11 -  -               - ------17
7 7 7 1 7 7 1 7 7 1 7 7 7 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -       -       -           -          I I I  7-- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -  1 77-- -  1-- - - - -   -  - - - - - -
177757717171~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,W6,                                                                                  -1                                     2                                                                                                                                      4                                              , -    71  7
- - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - -    -             -75 5  -   - - -       - - --                                            ---- -   - - -1     -  -  1 -                                               --- ---- -7 1 7  1-1-
....   ..                                2                                                    4..                       "A,            -         -I'-                               11-            71         71          I 7-         '14           17         -1l                                       5 7 7                         15      7440            77          7 117
17777 7775771177                                                                                                                                                                                            -               77         171      12       17           1           71~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,      -- ,   , 1
77777777717  -        -          Il           11      7,111                      711       1.111     7.171                        711       1117      7777           -            1711171                                           1,711        7,777        71,156      IS       -            -       7,777           77777757   7715  71,461Il_-    11
-    -        - -   -  - -- -   -    - -- - -- - -   - -  -- - --  ---                --,  ---177 -                                                                  77           171-- - - -- - - - --- - - -  - - - --   - - -  77  10---   - - - - - - - - -  --- - - - - --  7  1777--- -- -- -11- -
1176~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~17177                                                                                             777                                11          7                                                   77 -,1                                ,7          512    1            --                    7714757



PERU: INDUSTREAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FTNANCIERA BE DeSARROrJ.O
_ALYSIS OF OPERATIONS APPROVED 1/
(Amoints in thousands of soles)
I 9 7 1                       1 9 7 2                        1 9 7 3                       1 9 7 4                        1  9 7 5               Janbary-ept er_L976                  TotaI
No.     AmountNo.                      Am                 ntNo.                                      - t         %        No.     Amo.                           Acont        %        Co.       A.0o-nt      7,
1.  By Aount
500,000                3           600      0.9       3          900      -         17        4,300       -       13        3,700       -         3          700                 -          -                 39        10,200        -
500,001-2,000,000      5         4.000      6.0       2        1,500      -         17       17,200     0.1       11        9,900       -        14       16,700       0.1      4         4,600      -        53        53,900        -
2,000,001-5,000,000   2          7,200    10.8        8       27,500      0.4        1       4,200        -        4       16,600       -        11       38,1DB       0.1       1        4,400      -        27        98,000    0B1
Mote than 5,000,001   5         54,800    82.3       28   7,956,800    99.1         60  19,351,800    99.9       105  39,971,600       99.9    113  26,988,000        99.8     65   21,840,200    99.9    376  116,163,200    99.9
Total             15       66,600   100.0        41 _7,986 _700    100.0       95  19,377.500   100.0        133  40,001.800    100.0    141  27,043.500         0 0.0     7                      .     495  116,325300   100.0
2. By Doration
1 to 2 years           10       11,800    17.7       3        46,700      0.6       23     304,300      1.6       21       58,800       0.2      38      887,500       3.3       7    1,161,900      5.3    102    2,471,000        2.1
2 to 5 years            2       21,600    32.4      11        93,600      1.2       21      583,900      3.0      37   1,531,400        3.8      37   1,140,800        4.2      15    1,383,600      6,3    123    4,754,900        4.1
More than 5 years       3       33,200    49.9       27    7,846,400    98.2        51  18,489.300    95.4         75  38,411,600      96.0      66  25,015,200       92.5      48   19,303,700    88.4    270  109,099,400    93.8
Total             15       66,600   100.0       41    7,996,700   100.0         95  19,377,500   100.0       133  40.001.800    100.0    141  27.043.50D        100.0      70   21.849.200   100.0    495   116325.300   100.0
3.  By PurBose
Pi-ed assets          13        43,600    65.5      26    7,007,500    87.7         84  18,430,900    95.1        10  38,744,400       96.9    117  25,080,700        92.7      69   21,056,000    96.4    410  110,363,100    94.9
Working capital        -           -         -       5        85,300      1.1        9      834,900      4.3      12      321,309       0.8      20   1,501,300        5.6       7      698,300      3.2      53    3,441,300       2.9
Others                 2        23,000    34.5       10      893,900    11.2         2      111,700      0.6      11      935,900       2.3       4      461,500       1.7       3        94,900     0.4      32    2,520,900       2.2
Total            15        66,600   100.0       41    7,986,700   100.0         95  19.377,500   100.0        33  40      900.8    00      14500    1.0                    70
4. By Geo2raphical
lleg ion
North                  3        25,600    38.4       6    1,384,200    17.3         36   3,557,000    18.2        40  22,595,000       56.6      57  19,983,800       73.9      34   11,545,900    52.8   176    59,091,500    50.8
So-th                  3        14,300    21.5       6    5,245,100    65.7          7      903,500      4.5      13      734,700       1,8      22   3,806,800       14.1       3    1,269,800       5.8    54    11,974,200    10.3
Central                4         2,400      3.6                -          -          8   0,479,200    43,7        19   1,053,000        2.6      10      266,400       1.0       7    6,753,100    30.9    48    16,554,100    14.2
Oriental               1        15,000    22.5       5       187,000      2.3        5   3,891,300    20,5        10   6,806,500       17.0      11      280,600       1.0       3        62,300      0,3    36    11,242,700       9.7
Llssa                  3         8,700    13,1      17    1,086,900    13.6         31   1,453,600       7.5      42   6,451,000       16.1      31   1.419.000        5.2      17    1,365,600       6.3   1.41    11,784,800    10.1
Un-pec10iedV7          1           600        9       7       83,500      1.1        8   1,092,900       5.6        9   2,361,600        5.9     10   1.286,900        4.8       6       842,500      3.9    41      5,678,000      4.9
Total            15        66,600   100.0       41    7,986,700   100.0        95  19,377.509   100.0        133  40.001.804    10- 0.0     i4   27,043.500    1           70   214900   101.0   495   11,35,-300   100.0
5. By Sector
Agriculture            1           600     0.9       2        33,500      0.4        -        -                     1       5,300          -      2       16,400       0.1       1        26,200     0.1      7         82,000      0.1
Agro-industry          3       22,600    33.9        7       200,200      2.5        4        6,700       -        4       47,200       0.1      17      201,600       0.7       5    1,370,000      6.3    40       1,848,300      1.6
CoRsmunicatioos        -           -       -         1       157,200      2.0        5     503,100      2.6        5   1,858,000        4.7       6   1,270,400        4.7       2      264,500      1.2    19       4,053,500      3.5
Energy                                      -        1       602,400      7.5       10   7,101,500    36.6        16   2,440,200        6.1       8      653.000       2.4       9      450,900      2.1    44    11,248,000        9.7
Petrolelmo             -           -       -         3    1,203,900    15.1          8   4,358,000    22.5        17  27,585,700       69.0       7  11,640,700       43.0       9    7,810,700    35.8    44    52,599,000    45.2
Ma-nfacturiog          3       15,700    23.6       14       304,400      3.8       40   2,153,200    11.1        59   6,350,100       15.9      63   8,295,300       30.7      23    2,302,900    10.5   202    19,421,600    16.7
Mining                 -           -        -        4    5,227,700    65.5          8   1,288,700       6.7       3      102,300       0.3      16   3,868,300       14.3       8    7,911,400    36.2    39    18,398,400    15.8
Fisheries             1        11,000    16.5        1       157,500      2.0        3     781,400      4.0        1       20,000       -         5     559,100        2.1      3       586,100      2.7    14       2,115,100      1.8
8ervices               -           -       -         4        74,800      0.9        6     187,500       1.0      10      453,600       1.1       4       84,700       0.3       3      554,700       2.5    27      1,355,300      1.2
Tran-portation         5        3,300       5.0      1         4,700      -         11   2,997,400      15.5      12   1,022,600        2.6       8      341,700       1.3       3      460,100       2.1    40      4,829,800      4.1
Tourism                            -        -        -         -                    -         -          -         4       21,300       -         4       81,000       0.3       4       111,700      0.5    12        214,000      0.2
HMouing                2       13,400    20,1        3        20,400      0.3       -         -          -          6      95,500       0.2       1       31,000       0.1       -         -           -       7       160,300      0.1
Total            15        66.600   100.0      41    7.986,700   100.0         95  19 377 .00   100 B        133  40 100                   141  72       00    100Q  -O                        1 0 493511-6, 300 100 0
1/  -ncl,des loans.P for le-t-nt, loans for stodies, equity investments,  Ruaranter. on its our account and guarantees oxecuted by COFIDE -n behalf of the G-ove-nent.                                                                         |.
2 F Pro ectt  covering 0:0re than coo re3ion are clas-ified as  unspecified   it slay bh  noted that more thao  halt uf the a-ounts under this category were actually spout iu the                                                             It
-   Northerncreion, thus increasing the total share of the region to sbout 49%.
LCPDP
Docemhbe, 1976



PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Aoalvs{m of Loana Approved Upmto September 1976 1/
(all amoounts it oillio-  of soles)
1 9 7 1                     ] 9 7 2                    1 9 7 3                    1 9 7 4                  1975                 Jam. -Sept. 1976              T o t a I
5.    Amount    7I o    A                             No.   Amoont    7.         No.   Am,oont   7.       No,    Aount   7.    No.   Amount    7.             No.   Amount    7
By Si.. (million soles)
I -  20                           8     39.9    100.0         12    47.7    6.0        21      115.3    1.3        31    254.3   2.4        43    333.9    4.7        9       78.7   2.1       124    869.8   2.8
21 -  40                                    _        _          S   223.4   28.1         2       70.0    0.7         7    241.3   2.3        14    441.0    6.3        6      171.9   4.6         37  1,147.6   3.7
41 -  80                           _        _        _          1    69.5    8.8        10      571.1    6.2        11    634.9   6.1         10    503.0    7.2       8      473.2  12.6         40  2,251.7   7.2
81 - 200                           -        -        -          3   453.3   57.1        13   1,512.6   16.4         14  1,367.7  13.0         13  1,478.2   21.1       7   1,000.0  26.7          50  5,811.8  18.6
201 - 500                           -        -        -          -       -        -       8   2,131.7   23.2         10  1,942.4  18.5          5  1,393.9   19.8       5   1,367.4  36.5          28  6_835.4  21.8
More then 500                         -        --                         -        -        6   4,799.3   52.2         4  6,051.5  57.7          4  2,869.9   40.9       1      654.0  17.5         15 14.373.8  45.9
TOTAL                     8      39.9    100.0        24   793.9  100.0        60   9,200.0  1QC.0         77 10,497.1 100.0         89  7,19,0  100.0    36   3,745.2 100.0            294 31,290.1 100.0
SorE.atoo
0 to 2 years                      5       8.1      20.3        -       -        -       3      286.8    3.1         3      14.0   0.1        24    750.2   10.7       4   1,015.1  27.1          39  2,074.2   6.6
3 to 5 yemro                      2      21.6      54.1       11    93.6   11.9        21      583.9    6./4       32    946.4   9.0        31    629.5    9.0        7      313.9   8.4        104  2,588.9   8.3
More than 5 years                    10_ 9.2          25.1       13  720.3   88.2          36   0,329.3   90.5        42  9,531.7  90.9         34  5639.3   80.3    25   2,416.2  64.5            151 26,627.0  85.1
TOTAL                     8      39.9    100.0        24   793.9  100.0       60    9,209,0  100.0        .77. 10,492-1 100.0        89  7,019.0  100.0    36    3,745.2 100.0          294 31,290.1 100.0
North                             3      25.6      64.2        4    63.1    8.0        14   1,951.8   21.2         18  4,127.0  39.3         29  2,940.4   41.9    14   1,671.3  44.6            82 10,779.2  34.4
Sooth                             2      13.4      33.6        3   17806   22.5         6      444.6    4.9         8    462.3   4.4         14  1,808.6   25.8       2      745.3  19.9         35  3,652.8  11.7
Orient                            -        -         -         3   172.2   21.7          3   2,842.4   30.9         6    127.3   1.2          7    161.7    2.3       2       61.0   1.6         21  3,364.6  10.8
Central                           1       0.2       0. c          _           -         5   1,887.8   20.5         l4    676.5   6.5         17    266.4    3.-       2       80.7   2.3         32  2,916.7   9.3
Lime                              2       0.7       1.7       17   343.2   43.2        26   1,334.8   14.5         25  4,226.6  40.3         23    777.0   11.0    13        81326 .21.7         99  7.495.9  24.0
Unspecified                       _        _        --         4    36.8    4.6          6     738.6    0.0         6    872.4   8.3          6  1,064.9   15.2       3      368.2   9.9         25  3,080.9   9.8
TOTAL                     8      39.9    100.7        24   793.9  100.0         60   9,290.0  100.0        77 10.492.1 100.0         89  7,019.0  100.0    36   37.745.2 100.0          79h 11,290.1 100.0
Agrir-ltre_ -                              -                   2    33.5    4.2          -       -       -          -      -        -         2      16.4    0.2       1       26.2   0.7          5     76.1   0.2
Agro-ifd-iotry                    2      14.6      36.6        5   185.5   23.4          2        2.5    -          3      46.4   0.4        12    188.6    2.7        2      56.5   1.3         26    494.1   1.6
Com-mnications                    -        -         -         1   157.2   19.8          5     503.1    5.5         3    565.4   5.4          4  1,042.5   14.9        1     200.0   5.4         14  2,468.2   7.9
Emergy                            _        _         _-                                  0     600.2    6.5        10    528.8   5.0          7    622.6    8.9        6     315.4   8.4         31  2,067.0   6.6
Petroleum                         _        _         _         2    40.2    5.1          4   9,013.72  32.0  .   10  3,455.2  32.9            -       -        -       3     647.4  17.3         19  7,156.5  22.9
M-mofactoriig                     2       0.7       1.8        R   175.3   22.1        21   1,444.9   15.7         27  4,416.8  42.1         38  2,400.0   34.2    11        912.0  24.4        107  9,349.7  29.9
Minimg                            -        -         -         2   173.9   21.9         4      594.2    6.5         3    102.3   1.0         10  1,836.5   26.2       2      719.6  19.2         21  3,426.5  11.0
Fisheriss                         I      11.0      27.6        -      -       -         2      211.2    2.5         1      20.0   0.2         3    461.2    6.6       3      586.1  15.6         10  1,289.5   4.1
Service                           -        -         -         1    22.4    2.8          5     186.5    2.0         5    226.6   2.2          3      83.8    1.2       1      30.0   0.8         15    549.3   1.7
Transport                         1       0.2       0.S        1      4.7    0.6         9   7,G43.7   28.7        10  1,013.9   9.7          5    255.4    3.E        2     140.3   3.7          28  4,058_2  13.0
Tourism                           -        -                              -         -        -            -         4      21.2   0.2         4      81.0    1.1       4     511.7    3          12    213.9   0.7
L.dginga                          2      13.4      33.5           7 1_2  1n.2                           =_ _                  5    0.         1      31.0    4.4                           -  _4= -.__  6    14b.1   0,4
OTAL                     8      39,9                 24    711.9  104 Q_        1   9,240).   1OC)1,4     77 10,4T -2l.a            89  7,019.0  10.0-   36   3,741.2 100.0            294 31,290.1 100.0
Purpose
Fixed capifol                     -         -       -          9   625.6   78.8         34   8,024.7   87.2        48  9,984.2  95.2        50   5,333.7   76.0    27   3,118.4  83.2            168 27,086.6  86.6
Working capital                   -         -                  5    85.3   10.7          8      716.9    7.8       11    806.3   2.9         20  1,501.3   21.4        6      598.3  16.0         50  3,208.1  10.2
Other (studiem)                   8      39.9    100.0         10    83.0   10.1        09      406.4    5.0       18    201.6   1.9         1 P    184.0    2.6       1       28.9   0.8         76    995.4   2.2
TOTAL                    8      39.9    100.0        24   793.9  100.0         60   9,00       0.0492,1 100.0                       8i1  7,019.0  1000.   36   3,719.7 100.0            294 31,290.1 100.0
1F Figures prenented inelude loans for pre-investment stodies.
T.CPDF
December, 1976



PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPOPACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Analysis of Outstanding Loan and Equity Portfolios and Guarantees
as of September 30, 1976
(Thousands of Soles)
EQUITY                                 TOTAL EXPOSURE
LO0 A N S                                 INVES,TMENTS   G UA R A NT  E E S _        ON OWN ACCOUNTl/
To be                                  Net Loan                       Own         of the
Type of Enterprises                  Committed   disbursed   Disbursed   Recuperated   Portfolio                        Account      Government
State enterprises                    15,975,910   4,043,700  11,932,210        374,639   11,557,571         474,155   4,506,977    38,048,335         16,538,703
Private enterprises (except
financial)                       10,052,945   1,759,666   8,293,279         331,989    7,961,290    1,529,726   2,431,007              -           11,922,023
Financial Enterprises 2/                160,000        5,800      154,200         6,723       147,477        70,244        -               -             217,721
Enterprises with state
participation                         44,000          -         44,000        11,539       32,461      1,900,431        -                           1,932,892
To FONAPS (for relending to
social property enterprises)         907,447      336,102      571,315      539,144        32,201          -            -               -              32,201
TOTAL                          27,140,302   6,145,268  20,995,034   1,264,034  19,731,000            3,974,556   6,937,984    38,048,335        30,643,540
1/ Total exposure is computed as the sum of the net loan portfolio, equity investments and guarantees on own account.
2/ Including "associated banks" (see para.2.24)
LCPDF
December, 1976



PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
List of Equity Investments as of September 30, 1976
(Amounts in thousands of Soles)
% of           Cost                                                              *
Company's    Capital        Value of           Market Value                   Company's   Company's                           COFIDE's Loans &
Year of        Paid-in      Held by      Shares Held      of  Shares H1d bd                     Return on   Total         Dividend          Guarantees Out-
Company                                    Activity          Investment      Capital      COFIDE        by COFIDE           by COFIPE         Status-       Equty I>   Assets           Received        standing to C-panya
Industrlso del Pers - IN0UPERU                   Various Todustries       1975         850,253       24.3          206,000                                1            1. 0         934,274                            2,843,716
Asociacion So ec  Peruaea Industrial S.A.         Metal working            1971          60,690       94.0          57,090                                2                          116,883                              35,000
Peruans de  Peera S.A.                           Fishing                   1972         447,000       35.2         157,500                                2                       2,534,896                            1,500,000
Negociacio- Avicols "El Cencerro" S.A.           Agro-industrie=           1973           8,007      I00.0           8,007                                4                          32,142                               12,320
Mina  Aguila  S0A.                               Metal working            1973           66,700       40.0          28,700                                3                         199,155                              160,000
Cemento Norte Pacasmayo S.A,                      Cement products          1973         445,000       37.08        165,000                                1            2.34          729,555         3,521
Moteres Diesel  Andinos S.A.                     Metal working             1974         161,250       31.2          50,310                                2            4.0           276,583                              79,584
Maquisarias y Herramientas Andisas  S.A.          Metal working            1974         101,750       16.3          16,575                                 3
Trartores Andinos S0A.                            Metal working            1974          79,468       25.0          19,870                                3           20.0           368,470                              41,557
Industria Persans del  Alambre S.A.              Metal working             1974          40,000       20.0          50,000                                2                       3,167,000                            1,700,000
FPndicion Andins del Peru  S.A.                  Metallurgy                1974          75,000       16.0          12,000             14,400            1 2                         199,000                              51,859
Industrial Maderera del Oriente S.A.             Forestal                 1972           43,779       15.15          6,632                                1           18.0          116,568          1,261                26,508
Manufacturas Metalicas Jotfel  S.A.              Metal working             1972          32,111       12.3           3,953                                1            2n.n          149,161           390                11,907
Empress pars el Desarrollo y
Explotacion de la  Palms  Aceiters S.A,        Agro-industries          1973         107,571         9.95         10,700                                 3                         365,149                             223,249
Bayer  Industrial S.A,                            Textiles                 1973         568,229        4.29         81,200                                1             2.4        1,892,882         1,560
Empresas Electricas  Asociadas                    Power                    1972       5,481,687        1.0         603,892            302,000             1            3.0       12,445,693         12, 324            1,951,566
Cia.  Peruana de  Telefonos S.A.                 Telecommunications        1976       2,054,763                      1,084                               1 2           4.0         6,637,867             3               962,000
Papelera Pucallpa S.A.                           Papers Industries        1975         357,453      100.0          357,453                                3                         157,465
Banco de los Andes                               Finance                  1972           40,000       81.8          32,734                                1            4.72          W4M;e19         1,043                 31,302
Peruinvest Cia. do Fomento de Inversiones 0.A.
Inversiones S.A.                               Finance                  1972          97,075       42.0          40,771             34,655              1            4.05         684,998                              100,693
Quimica del Pacifico S.A.                         Chemicals               1975          398,586     100.0          398,586                                             6.48         476,625
Fertilioantes Sinteticos S.A.                    Fertili:ers               1975        163,911      100.0          163,o11                                1           16.83          250,092
Cementos Lima S.A.                               Cements Products         1974         654,053      100.0          675,674                                1            2.28       1,639,038                                33,561
Cemento Andino SA,.                              Cements Products         1974          238,632     100.0          443,770                                1            4.31         822,706
Cements Sur S.A.                                  Cements Products         1976         177,585      100.0         185,929                                 1            3.48         288,060
/ Market value indicated only in cases where the information is available.
Status indicated by the following code:  1.  Operating profitably
2. OperatiEg at less or eoperieocing technical, financial or other operational difficulties
3. Companies in start-op phase or preparation
4.  Bankrupt or in liquidation
c/  loot-end 1975.M
* Figures and ratios as of December 31, 1975.
LCPDF
December, 1976



ANNEX 13
PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Sectoral and Regional Distribution of Studies Financed by COFIDE
(accumulated until September 1976)
A.  Sectors                              Number of Studies
Agriculture                                  5
Agro-Industry                               16
Covmunications                               0
Energy                                      15
Petroleum                                    4
Industry                                    67
Mining                                      13
Fisheries                                    3
Service                                      6
Transport                                    9
Tourism                                      5
Lodgings                                     5
Total                148
B. Region
North                                       47
South                                       17
Orient                                       6
Central                                    23
Lima                                        45
Unspecified                                 10
Total               148
LCPDF
December, 1976



ANNEX 14
PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Summary of Follow-Up Activity
July-Dec.   Jan.-June   July-Dec.   Jan.-June   July-Sept.
1974          1975       1975         1976          1976
(a) Number of Projects visited
Projects under construction    20             30          35            31            12
Projects in operation             8           15          18            23             9
TOTAL                    28           45          53            54            21
(b) Number of visits
Projects under construction    33             45          39            48            19
Projects in operation            13           25          32            28            11
TOTAL                    46           70          71            76            30
LCPDF
December, 1976



PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Statement of Arrears as of September 30, 1976
(Amounts in Thousands of Soles)
Number of   Number of   Loan           Principal Disbursed                      A R E A R S
Companies   Loans         Amount
Committed   Amount          %     Principal       %      Interest      %     Total      %
A.  Loans Not in Arrears
In grace period                                88        156    20,334,359  14,352,824    68.36            -          -         -         -        -        -
Being repaid on timel/                         49          74     6,443,059   6,291,339    29.97   158,997           70.11   205,673    69.66  364,670  69.85
Subtotal                           137         230    26,777,418  20,644,163    98.33   158,997           70.11   205,673    69.66  364,670  69.85
B. Loans in Arrears
3 to 6 months                                   2           2       229,900      229,900       1.09    50,656       22.33    62,572    21.19  113,228  21.69
6 to 12 months                                  4           4        117,735      105,795      0.50     9,379         4.14    21,630      7.33   31,009   5.94
12 to 24 months                                 5           6        11,907        11,834      0.06     4,759        2.10      2,571      0.87    7,330   1.40
More than 24 months                             1           1          ?,342        3,342      0.02     2,996         1.32     2,819      0.95    5,815   1.12
Subtotal                            12          13         36,884      350,871      1.67    67,790       29.89    89,592    30.34  157,382  30.15
TOTAL                              149         243    27,140,302  20,995,034   100.00   226,787         100.00   295,265   100.00  522X052 100.00
1/ This category includes loans with arrears of less than 3 months.
LCPDF
December, 1976



AiNNEX 16
PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCITYRA DE DESARROLLO
Interest Rates and Terms on Local Currency Loans
Priority         Pur-ose           Rate          Grace Period         Maximum Tern
Fixed Assets          1it           1 to 4 years           lO years
1st        Working Capital        13%           Up to 1 year            5 years
Fixed Assets          124            . to 3 years           8 years
State                         2nd        Working Capital        14%           Up to 6 months          4 years
Enterprises
Fixed Assets          144           1 to 2 years            6 years
3rd        lWorking Capital       164           UP to 3 months          3 years
Fixed Assets          124           1 to 3 years            9 years
1st        Working Capital        144           Up to 9 months          4 years
Fixed Assets          134           1 to 2 years            7 years
Non-State                     2nd        Working Capital        154           Up to 6 months          3 years
Enterprises in
Lima/Callao                              Fixed Assets           154           1 year                  5 years
Metropolitan Area            3rd         Working Capital        174           Up to 3 months          2 years
Fixed Assets          12            4 years                10 years
1st        Working Capital        14            1 year                  5 years
nlecentrai4zed                            Fixed Assets          13            3 years                 8 years
Non-State                     2nd        Working Capital        15            6 months                4 years
Interprises
Fixed Assets          15            2 years                 6 years
3rd         Wiorking Capital      17            3 months                3 years
1  For terns longer than the maximum indicated, the interest rates are 13% for state enterprises and 14%
for non-state enterprises.
2/ Decentralized enterprises are those located outside the ketropolitan Lima/Callao area.
LCPDF
December, 1976



PERU:  INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                                     ANNEX 17
GORPORACION PIYANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Past and Projected Balance Sheets an of December 31. 1971-1978
(in millions of soles)
A U DI T E D                                    P R O J E C T E D
1 9 7 1       1 9 7 2        1 9 7 3       1 9 7 4        1 9 7 5       1 9 7 6        1 9 7 7       1 9 7 8
ASSETS
Current
-  Cash and Banks (including Term Deposits)                            593.6          504.6         146.2           15.0         129.1           42.0           70.0          70.0
-  Negotiable Isvestnnsts                                              580.1          380.1         380.1           54.5         100.0           54.5          54.5           54.5
-  Interest, Commissioss and
Dividends Receivable                                              10.4          31.8           75.0         240.2          528.1       1,128.0        1,622.0       2,465.0
-  Other Receivables                                                     6.4            9.1          26.1            1.6            -             2.6            3.0           3.5
- Correct Portios of Loan
Repayments                                                          .1             .0         119.2         150.0            -         1,842.0       4,111.3        6,223.4
Sob-total                                            1.190.6         925.6          746.6         461.3          757.2       3.069.1        5,860.8       8,816.4
Portfolio Inonstroets
-  Equity Ivenstlnests at Gost                                          18.6          659.0         986.4       1,211.8        2,800.2       2,113.9        2,740.2        3,183.5
-  Provision for Possible Looses on
Equity Investments                                                  -              -           (4.9)        (20.3)         (26.9)        (53.4)         (60.0)         (68.0)
-  Loans                                                               156.7          400.6       2,077.8       6,525.9       12,102.2      32,061.3       45,029.4       57,222.7
-  Provision for Possible Losses on Lo.se                                  -           (4.1)          (6.5)        (24.8)        (52.53        (133.6)       (193.6)        (261.6)
Sob-total                                              175.3       ).055.5       3.052.8        7,692.6      14,822.6       33.988.2       47,516.0      60,076.6
FPied Assets
-  Gross                                                                 5.5           16.7          22.1           27.1          41.6           89.5         230.6          236.1
-  Depreciatios                                                         (0.1)          (3.3)         (3.4)          (3.4)         11.2            6.7          12.5           13.5
Sub-total                                                5.4          13.4           18.7          23.7           30.4          82.8          218.1          222.6
Other Assecs                                                               -             -          287.1          318.5         877.0          324.4         417.7          539.1
TOTAL ASSETS                                         1,371.3       1,994.5       4,105.2        8,496.1      16,487.2       37,464.5       54,012.6      69,654.7
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                                      4.9            6.5          21.5           56.6          44.9          332.9         421.4          722.0
-  Interest, Consmis.imns and Dividends Payable                            -             -           39.0          114.6         391.2          741.2       1,176.8        1,716.0
-  Short-ter  Maturities 1/                                                -             -          130.2       1,546.0          172.0          526.6       1,846.7        3,025.7
-  D.L. 19311 Sight Deposits                                               -          163.5         225.6          277.2         170.5          677.2         877.2        1,077.2
Other                                                                   -             -           23.2           25.7          4S.6           68.5          78.8          160.5
Sub-total                                                4.9         170.0          439.5       2,019.6          656.7       2,346.4        4,400.9       6,701.4
Long-term Liabilities
Borrowings from Central Reserve Bank                                   -              -             -              -            -         6,162.2        8,931.4       11,170.4
Long-term  Debt                                                         -             -        1,030.8       2,614.7        9,876.9      21,201.8       30,817.5      39,949.8
Other                                                                27.0           19.4          56.4           66.4         828.5        1.870.5       2,662.6        3,765.8
lob-total                                               27.0          19.4        1,087.2       2,681.1      10,705.4       29,234.5       42,411.5      54,886.0
Equity
Share Capital                                                     1,338.0       1,731.5        2,524.5       3,708.3        5,047.0       5,719.3        6,919.3        7,719.3
-  Retained Earnings and Reserves                                         1.4          73.6           34.0          87.1          78.1          164.3          280.9         348.0
Sob-total                                            1,339.4       1,805.1        2,578.5       3,795.4       5,125.1        5,883.6        7,200.2       8,067,3
TOTAL LLABILITIED AND EQUITY                         1,371.3       1,994.5        4,105.2       8,496.1      16,487.2       37,464.5        54,012.6    69,654.7
GUARANTEES GIVlN ON OWN ACCOUNT TO BORROWERS                                     -          738.9       1,450.7       2,519.6        3,353,4       6,000.0         7,000.0       7,500.0
RATIOS
Total Liabilities/Equity (Including guarantees on own account)             -         0.51:1        1.15:1         1.90:1         2.9:1          6.4:1          7.5:1         8.6:1
Loog-Tens Liabilities/Equity (Inclsding guarantees on own account)  -                0.42:1        0.98:1         1.67:1         2.7:1          6.0:1          6.9:1         7.7:1
Current Ratio                                                              -         5.4:1         1.7:1          D.23:1         1.15:5         1.31:1         1.33:1        1.32.1
Pro-slions/Total Portfolio (h) (Including Guaranteen on own Acct.)  -               0.23          0.25           0.44           0.53           0.51          0.47           0.49
Long-Term Liabilities/Total Assets                                                   0.28          0.46           0.49           0.71           0.81           0.81          0.81
Credits Given on Behalf of Government                                                       -            990.0          521.0         345,4        (       N 0 t  K n o w n
Guarantees Given on Behalf of Government                                                  3,962.0      4,622,0      13,502.0       20,834.0        (       N c t  K n o u n
L/ Includes current maturities on long-term debt.  An unusual bunching of matorities in 1974 accounts for the extra-ordinarily large corrent liabilities at the end of
1974; this circs-tance is not expected to repeat.
LCPDF
Dec-eber, 1976



PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Past and Projected Income Statements. 1971 to 1978
(in millions of soles)
A U D I T E D                  UNAUDITED             P R O J E C T E D
1 9 7 1       1 9 7 2       1 9 7 3       1 9 7 4       1 9 7 5       1 9 7 6       1 9 7 7       1 9 7 8
INCOME
Interest on Loans                                             8.9          22.6          67.6         459.9         969.6       2,503.4       4,042.3       5,555.3
Interest on Short-term Investments                            4.5          72.8          71.9          38.2            8.4           -              -             -
Comnissions, etc.                                              -             .7           2.1          58.5          88.4         160.8         237.2         313.5
Dividends Earned                                               -           34.4          14.7           8.9          13.9            7.5          9.0          10.8
other Income                                                  2.9            .3           0.4           1.2          18.1           2.6           4.0            5.4
T O T A L                                           16.3          130.8         156.7        566.7        1,098.4      2,674.3       4,292.5       5,885.0
EXPENSES
Interest                                                       -             -            0.4         260.1         647.9       1,679.3       2,758.7       3,948.7
Commissions                                                   0.6           0.5           0.9          16.9           17.1        254.0         422.8         594.5
Other Financial                                                 -             -             -           0.4          14.7           5.0            5.5           6.5
Administrative and General                                   13.7          50.1         103.7         152.4         211.1         249.5          313.5         358.3
Provisions for Bad Debts, Depreciation, etc.                  0.7           6.2          13.0          33.5          63.1          70.5          84.0         100.8
Other Expenses                                                 -            0.4           0.7           4.8           8X5            5.2           5.7           6.2
T 0 T A L                                     -     15.0           57.2         118.7        468.1          962.3      2,263.5        3,590.2       5,015.0
Profit Before Taxes                                                 1.3          73.6          38.0          98.6         140.3 41      410.8         702.3         870.0
Provision for Taxes  2/                                              -             -             -           26.9           8.6         246.5         421.4         522.0
NET PROFIT                                            1.3          73.6          38.0          71.7         131.8         164.3         280.9         348.0
RATIOS 31
Total Income/Average Total Assets (%)                         3&6           7.8           5.1           9.0            8.8           9.2           8.8           9.5
Administrative Expenses/Average Total Assets (%)               3.0           3.0           3.4           2.4           1.7           0.9           0.7           0.6
Financial Expenses/Average Total Assets (%)                     -             -           0.1           4.4            5.4           6.6           7.0           7.4
Net Profit/Average Total Assets (%)                           0.3           4.4           1.2            1.1           1.1           0.6           0.6           0.6
Net Profit/Average Equity                                     0.3           4.7           1.7           2.3           3.0            2.8           4.3           4.6
1/ Eight months only.
2/  COFIDE (like most public enterprises in Peru) had been fully or partially exempted from the regular corporate income taxes during 1971-75,
but such exemption was lifted with effect from January, 1976. Corporate taxes for future years have been assumed to be 607.
3/ 1971 figures annualized.
4/ Includes additional profit of Col$4.4 million earned from holdings of basic industries.
LCPDF
December, 1976



PERU:  INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Past and Projected Sources and Uses of Funds, 1974-1978
(in mil-lions of-soles)
ACTUAL          UNAUDITED                       P R O J E C T E D
SOURCES                                                    1 9 7 4           1 9 7 5            1 9 7 6            1 9 77            19 7 8
A.      From Operations
- Net profit                                         71.7              131.8              164.3             280.9              348.0
- Provisions                                         33.5               63.1               70.5              84.0              100.8
B.      Capital Flows
- Increases in share capital                      1,183.8            1,338.7             270.0            1,300.0              800.0
- Recuperations of loans                            119.2              676.4             350.0            1,842.0            4,111.3
C.      Borrowings
- Domestic                                          436.3            2,140.2           4,306.6            2,769.2            2,239.0
- Foreign                                         2,563.4            3,112.9          10,803.5           11,462.4           12,158.0
D.      Sale of Equitv Investments                           729.0               --             1,160.0            1,380.0            1,664.0
E.      Increase in other Liabilities                        115.9           1.094.2              602.0              346.5            1,010.7
T 0 T A L                                  5,252.8            8,557.3           17,726.9          19,565.0           22,431.8
USES
A.      New Equity Investments                               893.7            1,170.8             661.0            1,022.7              888.3
B.      Loan Disbursements                                 4,611.4            6,079.8          15,862.0           17,079.4           18,416.7
C.      Investments in Studies                                14.0                5.2             104.1               89.0              114.5
D.      Amortization of Debt                                    -               741.2              172.0             526.6            1,846.7
E.      Distribution of Profits                               38.0               56.0             291.6              164.3              280.9
F.      Increase in Assets                                   152.5              275.3             614.2              555.0              884.7
T 0 T A L                                  5,709.6            8,328.3           17,704.9           19,637.0          22,431.8
Net Increase (Decrease) in Holdings of
Cash and Negotiable Investments                             (456.8)             229.0               22.0              28.0                 C.0              z
LCPDF
December, 1976



ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 3
PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Major Assumptions Used for Financial Projections
The following is not a comprehensive list of all the assumptions made in
arriving at the financial projections for 1975-78, but is indicative of their
general nature. Adjustments have been made to take account of special features
of individual operations governed by various decree-laws and historical data
of relevance to COFIDE's operations.
ITEM                                    ASSUMPT IONS
ASSEFTS
1. Loan disbursements
To Public, Private and                10% annual increments in local currency
Reformed private enterprises          and 5% increments in foreign currency
placements.
To Social Property enterprises       30% annual increments in local currency
and 10% increments in foreign currency
placements.
2. Equity investments
Increments of S/. 300 million annually
during 1977 and 1978 in the non-public
sector and a total increment of 5/. 600
million during 1976-78 in the public
sector for the acquisition of equity in
IN\UPERU.
3. Investments in Studies
Annual increments of 30%
4. Loan Recoveries
The average terms of the loans assumed
are:
For local currency loans
Public enterprises - 7 years including
2 years grace.



A NNEX ;G
Page 2 of 3
T II                                   ASSUMPT IONS
Private and Reformed Private enterprises -
6 years including 2 years grace.
Social Property enterprises - 5 years
including 2 years grace.
For foreign currency loans
5 years. including 3 years grace irrespec-
tive of the type of enterprise.
LLiBILTTIES
1.  Long term bonds and certificates    Annual increments of 30%
of deposits by industrial com-
munities.
2.  Bonds under Decree Law 19311          Constant annual increments of S/.200
million.
3.  Financing from Central Reserve        Additional financing at an interest rate
Bank                                  of 4% as assumed as follows:
1976 - s/. 4300 million
1977 - S/. 2770 million
1978 - S/. 2240 milli-on
4.  Share capital                         Additional share capital of S/. 300
million in 1977 and S/. 500 million in
1978 in class A shares and an additional
5/. 300 million per year in the form of
Class D shares.
(in addition 600 million    soles generated
by the shares of 3mpresas Electricas
Asoci-adas will be converted from capital
surplus account to paid-up capital)
INCOME
-Interest Income
Local currency loans                  8% p.a. on loans to public and social
property enterprises and 10% p.a. to
others.
Foreign currency loans                10% p.a. irrespective of the type of
enterprise.



ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 3
_TEM                                   ASSUMPTIONS
2. Commitment fee on loans
Local currency loans                 0.75% of the quarter of new commitments.
Foreign currency loans               0.5% of one half of new commitments for
public and social property enterprises,
and 1% for private and reformed enter-
prises.
3. Commission on guarantees
0.75% p.a. of the balances guaranteed.
EXPENSES
1.  Interest expenses                    8% p.a. on bonds and certificates of
deposit, 4% on Central Reserve Bank
borrowings and 8.5% on foreign currency
credit lines.
20  Commitment fee on borrowings         0.5% per year on class C bonds, 0.25%
on D. L. 19311 bonds and 1.5% on foreign
currency credit lines.
3.  Cperating expenses                   Annual increments of 15% and 20% are
assumed for salary and overhead expenses,
respectively.
4. Taxes                                 Income tax rate of 60%.
LCPDF
December, 1976



ANNEX 21
PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                 Cumulative Disbursements at end of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                               1,000
December 31, 1977                                                3,000
March 31, 1978                                                   5,500
June 30, 1978                                                    8,000
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                              11,500
December 31, 1978                                               14,500
March 31, 1979                                                  17,500
June 30, 1979 1/                                                21,000
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                              23,500
December 31, 1979                                               25,500
March 31, 1980                                                  27,500
June 30, 1980                                                   29,500
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                              31,000
December 31, 1980                                               32,500
March 31, 1981                                                  34,000
June 30, 1981 2/                                                35,000
1/ Terminal date for submission of subprojects.
2/ Closing date.
LCPDF
Decembher, 1976



APPENDIX  A
PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THE FINANCIAL SECTOR AND POLICIES
A.     Introduction
1.     The financial sector plays a crucial role in channeling financial resources
in Peru, handling a volume of conventional financial assets equal to that of the
rest of the economy and edging up marginally in the last decade. Its importance
in resource mobilization may even be greater due to its relatively high efficiency
in effecting large intersectoral transfers, the magnitude of which is revealed by
the savings-investment relationships by sector (Table 1). While the banking system
is, by far, the largest part of the financial sector, holding over 85 percent of
its total assets, the rest of the financial sector has steadily increased its
relative share since 1965. (Tables 2 and 3).
2.     Three closely interrelated objectives of financial sector reform are stated
in recent biennial plans: (i) to generate savings and to promote their efficient
distribution towards investment; (ii) to create selective credit channels to
increase production in "strategic sectors", improve the "democratization" and
regional distribution of credit, and support the beneficiaries of the agrarian
reform; and (iii) to secure and strengthen national control of credit sources and
credit institutions.
3.     The pursuit of these goals has led to some institutional as well as policy
changes in the financial sector over the past decade, which are discussed in the
following sections. Particularly noteworthy are the policy changes concerning
selective credit and the substitution of government bonds (notably public
lnvestment bonds) for credit.
B.     Structural Reforms of the Financial Sector
4.     Figure 1 shows the institutional structure of the financial sector as of
March, 1976. The origin of most changes in administrative control and responsibi-
lities during the past decade were the general Decree-Law of Reorganization of
Ministries of December 1968 and the Organic Law of the Finance Sector of March
1969. By these and subsequent measures, the Central Reserve Bank, the Inspectorate
of Banks and Insurance Companies, the National Supervisory Commission of Enterprises
and Securities, COFIDE and the other state development banks were defined as
public decentralized agencies. Also, a number of important permanent advisory,
supervisory, and counseling bodies within the MEF, or directed by it in collaboration
with other ministries or decentralized agencies, were created. Most important are
the Monetary Policy Council, the Council of State Credit Policy, the Council for
Coordination of Associated Banks, the Council of State Banks, and the Committee for
Coordination of State Banks and COFIDE. The Monetary Policy Council, acting as
the supreme authority in monetary policy matters, is composed of the Minister
'Chairman) and Vice-Minister of the Economy and Finance, the Inspector General of
Banks and Insurance Companies, and the presidents of the Central Reserve Bank and
COFIDE. The Council of State Credit Policy, which coordinates the entire credit
This Appendix is partly based on a draft prepared by Mr. Galbis (IMF) who participated
in the Bank's most recent Basic Economic Mission.



Figwre 1.  Peru:  StractLre of the Financial Sector (as of March 1976)
arozs ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~44 .. pwou.
~~JtWA?I                                              pfJauc~Aw       J~y.dF~
s-   .o             d.d               Cd.  .* It- A-do
phN *dw PINdf"4                         LCW.uC If C~dtlf.fon
A_md  B.      1 d
mman sa"CtAL                                                                      C4~.4   Y "W _EYd F
_,                           _ ~~~~~~AN. 1      _ i
. (M"lt " | | sNdo 3 wi. 
960'NC.1"4wft  p.0  U" I  ML d oo    lq'.' 4S.poo,I
am= do Lim~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Odo  SO.
1110 do Lafo*do OL.. m U  L
SWPJA of  OtVIOaM&W.   SAN                                                             /
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.ofo ,f Sttt 3 !
2GfASt _COiI_ _IIIC_NA
so=..o, Cf.w do KIMe,U  iof.dn-)    SA
Fh.... S.. Pod. IA.e
*v.ld. i. NA. .. _iA
CJI_I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f4U. _eVIb*-bt s.k'Oo
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q1
Coo d      . A,  C.                                                                                    of
Ww4 S-0m la-I~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f.dSos~'
b/- S 4.- Y                                       C..t o lb i/i. *  0- 4 XdsThl
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I-s                                                       h ^ f 1%
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t    cow                                   do P. *410         I              s4A0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cd.- r S- B-%
F.~        S-ft. &A.                              1i                           
I ~. c    -,                    I                 1          _ t            >  k
F[          AM  S                                              u---                    -\/t.  
F       -     v   1, 6 .L  17 .s*  al T||1 tnl6-s SR
v   f Viidd * teh0    C_tw XF-sach AA.{q l
I   sS-st|048st t_ Auofetl    I   I    tCI tzorwF rhnr         V I   ,
i e c e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 'f E-I     I                                 I           i 
I    bF   ; I_   ,   I    I        -                                 1\~~~~~~~~~~~~~- S~1-



ASPENDIX A - Paae 2
~.-ic  of    c:;uT~t:27~,is7 Z Co-s   of the members of the Monetary, Policy Council an
._T hr<-e   -.z c n on ti-ih instit-utional structure of the sector dutring
;oe `ast decade are wor-. mentiou- g.  First, in accordance with government policy,
or ree of the laraest Peru-vian commercial banks with principal of'fice ir Lfm/Calko
Popul.ar, Continen1-I 8an  Tnternacional -- were acquired by the public sector
in 970 n, e hJ  g-neric  a_2me of "associated banks". However, there is
ua iv n^ 4-is-inction between private national con=.ercial barnks and associated
ban.ks -kregarding legal reserves and selective credit regulat:ions.  The commercial
banking system consists now of four private banks, three associated banks, four
foreign banks and six small regional banks 1/. Other important changes in recent
years included the establishment of COFIDE in 1971 as a strong, diversified
development bank, and functional reorganization of the five specialized state
development banks.
6.     Second, as a result of Decree Law 18957 of September 1971, which restricted
the type of operations permitted for private financieras, their number decreased
from 37 to 7. while the measure has been reasonably success.ui in orienting these
institutions r- ore ~-.owards investment banking, their volume of operations has
remained relatively small.
7.     Finally, Banco de la Nacion was created in 1966 as the bank and financial
agent of the Government.  Initially it had rather limited resources and its furctioias
were restricted to receiving payments for the public sector, administering some
public monopolies and keeping government securities acquired through the judiciary
process.  Fowever, its functions were expanded in 1969 to make it the recipient of
the deposits of all public sector entities and of the portion of legal reserves
corresponding to the marginal reserve ratios (30 percent of the increase in
deposits) of all: commercial banks with principal offices in Lima/Callao.
Subsequently, Barice de la Nacion's capital was increased and it obtained signiic act
resources L aon, euternal credits and the Central Reserve Bank.  Banco de la Nacion
now provides substantial short-term credit to mainly public and private enterprises.2i
Finally, it has been authorized to buy and sell public and private securities and
w.as assigned the administration of the Export Insurance and Credit Operation
insura.nce schemes.
Ce  ~Honetary Poliicv Ilnstruments
8.     The Deriod 1962-69 was one of relative inactivity In the use of monetaa-y
-olicy instrumrents.  The supply of money by the Central Reserve Bank was controilec,`
thrrough contractual credit to the public sector and rediscounts with the banking
systems which the Central Reserve Bank attempted to attune to the volume of lts
interI at`ional. reserves and balarce of payments prospects.  No other instruments
of money stock' control were nearly as important: although the Central Reserve Bansk
reguliated all interest rates and imposed legal reserve requirements on both local
and foreign currency deposits, they were changed infrequently. There were no
portfolio requirements on financial institutions.
Although thOeir fuactions a--e somewhat different, the Lima Saving Bank and t1he
twio p--iv-ate hLou-sing develcpment banks  have been included as commercial lbanks.
21  In special cases it also provides medium and long-term financing to public
enterprises.



N X       Pa, .    -_
9.     The need to implement the new development policies after 1968 required the
introduction and intensification of selective credit policies (see section D).
However, the instruments to control money supply have remained essentially
unchanged, except for the increasing tendency to use legal reserves simultaneously
as an instrument of money stock control and of credit selectivity. 1/
10.    Table 4 shows the distribution of net domestic credit by the Central
Reserve Bank, Apart from relatively unimIDortant items (capital and reserves,
and others) whose behavior is fairly rigid5 the Central Reserve Bank continued to
use two exclusive channels to inject reserve money into the economy until 1975:
the Central Government and the banking system. However, as may be seen from the
table, the Central Government has not been used as a channel for new funds since
1969; increases in Central Bank credit were thus directed exclusively to the
banking system since 1969 up to early 1976, when COFIDE and FONAPS also received
SI. 1,000 million and about SI. 700 million, respectively.
11.    State developmernt banks and, within them, principally BIP have clearly
been the preferred channel to inject nev money by the Central Reserve Bank since
1965, except for a brief interval in 1971-72 when Central Bank credit was dis-
tributed fairly evenly among commercial and state bankas and Banco de la Nacion.
The sharp increase in Central Bank credit to coumercial banks and to Banco de la
Nacion since mid-1975 was necessitated by the severe l0oss of international
reserves which drained dramatically the liquidity of these banks.
12.    The basic simplicity of the Peruvian method of controlling money supply
enabled the Central Reserve Bank to assume chaacteristics of a developmernt
agency without impairing its principal function of regulating the money stock.
In addition to providing ample refinancing to state development banks and over-
seeing their operations, the Central Reserve Bank has participated directly in
the financing of rice crops through a special "warrants" system, and has provided
special credit lines for regional development and for the development of the wood
and related industries in the Peruvian Amazon ; it is also in charge of
administering the portfolio regulations applied to commercial banks with principal
office in Lima/Callao. Finally, the Central Reserve Bank has been charged with
financing EPS through COFTDE and FONAPS.  In the longer run, however, it may be
advantageous to separate the Central Reserve Bank's function of control of money
supply from that of credit redirection; this would achieve a greater clarity in
developmental policies as well as a more effective use of legal reserves in
regulating money supply.
D.     Selective Credit System
13.    Until 1969, there were few specific selective credit policies other than
those emanating from regulations defining the scope of financial institutions.
Some credit selectivity was implicit in the presence of the specialized state
development banks and Banco de la Nacion each of which catering to specific public
or private sector needs. However, credit selectivity policy has been more explicit
and intensified since 1969 and was pursued through further development of specialized
public financial institutions as well as direct portfolio regulations on commercial
banks and rediscount operations. The selective credit provisions as of May,1976 are
presented in Table 5.
1/  There have been no open market operations, thus facilitating the fixed interest
rate policy.



APPENDIX A - Page 4
14.    The general goal of selective credit policies was, of course, to modify
the distribution of credit to conform with the broad objectives of the socio-
economic development plan. In practice, this meant ensuring adequate finance to
key sectors of the economy (mainly industry and housing), to promote regional
development and economic decentralization, and to "democratize" credit, i.e.,
to make it available to small- and medium-size enterprises and to the beneficiaries
of social-priority housing and of the agrarian reform.
15.    Portfolio related measures taken in April 1969 required all commercial banks
with principal office in Lima/Callao to direct 60 percent of the increase in their
credit after May 1, 1969 to priority uses in agriculture (10 percent), fishing
(7 percent), industry (40 percent) and construction (3 percent). However, the
detailed allocative guidelines were revised subsequently on various occasions to
make banks' compliance possible, to adjust to changing circumstances and to fit
the evolving industrial and other government policies. In March 1971, commercial
banks were authorized to cover deficiencies in credit to agriculture and fishing
by purchases of Agrarian Development Bonds and deficiencies in lending for fishing
through credit to the Fishing Development Fund within BIP. Beginning October 1971,
portfolionorms could be met through the purchase of Public Investment Bonds and banks
were required to hold at least 20 percent of the increase in credit in Public
Investment Bonds -- a requirement which was abolished in September 1975. Finally,
in March 1972 all intra-sectoral guidelines were suspended; the only remaining
requirement was to dedicate at least 60 percent of the total increase in credit
to any of the designated sectors and activities or, alternatively, to purchase
Public Investment Bonds by the amount of the total deficiency. (See Table 5).
16.    Although the association between the final destination of credit and the
type of institution providing is not necessarily very close, the pronounced shift
away from commercial bank credit in the last decade (see Table 3) does suggest
an important selectivity effect, given the specialized nature of the public
financial institutions. As shown in the tabulation below, the shift favored the
development-oriented institutions, i.e., state banks and COFIDE:
Banking System and COFIDE: Percentage Distribution
of Credit in Group's Total 1/
1965          1968           1975
Commercial banks                  63.6           56.6          44.6
State development banks           26.7           37.5          37.0            I
Banco de la Nacion                 9.7            5.9            9.9
COFIDE                              -              -             8.5
Total              100.0          100.0          100.0
1/ The term credit is used here in an all-inclusive sense, meaning net credit (assets
minus liabilities) through normal credit operations and others such as purchases
or sales of bonds.



APPENDIX A - Page 5
The state development banks and COFIDE provided as much credit as commercial
banks in 1975. Because of their special functions, COFIDE and Banco de la
Nacion oriented their credit mainly toward the public sector, while commercial
banks and the specialized state development banks directed to it only 18% and 24%
respectively, of their total credit (Table 3). Among the specialized state banks,
those oriented towards housing grew fastest over the last 10 years as seen from
the table below:
State Development Banks: Percentage Distribution
of Credit in Group's Total
1965         1968           1975
Banco Agrario (agriculture)               42.3          42.3           28.2
BIP                                       34.8          33.6           28.9
Banco Minero (mining)                      5.1           7.2            3.5
Banco Hipotecario (housing)               17.0          16.5           30.1
Banco de la Vivienda (housing)             0.8           0.3            9.3
Total                            100.0         100.0         100.0
17.    The impact of selectivity is also evident in changes in the sectoral
distribution of credit granted by the banking system, particularly that from
commercial and savings banks (see Tables 6 and 7). The shares of industry and
construction in commercial and savings banks credit rose markedly between 1968 and
1975, while agriculture and fishing declined to insignificant levels:
Percent Shares in Total Commercial and Savings Bank Credit
by Sectors of Destination
1950        1960         1968         1970         1975
Agriculture                10.5         12.1          7.2          5.4          1.9
Fishing                      ...         ...          4.6          2.5          0.4
Industry                   25.4         27.1         27.2         34.9         38.2
Construction                4.4          4.3          6.5          9.6         12.2
The rise in the industry's share appears to have been due to the combined effect
of the portfolio guidelines (which assigned a large role to key priority uses
within industry) and the rapid industrial development facilities by other policy
measures. Commercial and savings banks had little difficulty in concentrating a
required minimum of 60 percent of their credit in first and second priority
enterprises within the industrial sector:



APPENDIX A - Page 6
Distribution of Commercial and Savings Banks Credit to Industry
1972          1973           1974           1975
First priority                 29.7           22.2           19.0            n.a.
Second priority                64.0           71.4           73.4            n.a.
Source:  Superintendencia da Banco y Seguros, Memoria 1974 (Lima, 1975) and updates
for 1975 ny the Superintendencia.
18.    Similar conditions favored the rise in the share of credit to construction
by commercial and savings banks, as well as the private financieras. The decline
in the share of credit to agriculture by commercial, savings, and development
banks since 1968 was in line with the relatively small   rate of growth planned
for agricultural production. Commercial bank lending to fishing decreased between
1968 and 1975 mainly as a result of the serious ecological setback of this sector
after 1971 and the transfer of firms to the public sector which enabled them to
obtain credit from BIP.
E.     Interest Rate Policies
19.    Between 1962 and 1975, interest rates remained virtually unchanged.  As shown
in Table 8, effective interest rate ceilings were maintained on both the liabilities
and assets of all major financial institutions in an attempt to keep the cost of
credit low.
20.    On the savings side, interest rates on savings deposits (typically 5 percent)
and time deposits (7 percent) remained fixed throughout the period 1962-1975, while
a small interest rate payment on demand deposits (1 percent) was abolished beginning
April 1965. Interest rates on other savings instruments were somewhat higher than
7 percent, in accordance with their specialized, longer-term nature, but always
below the average annual rate of inflation of 10 percent. The weighted average rate
on these instruments increased slightly as a result of interest rate-induced shifts
toward the higher-yielding instruments including some newly created ones. The most
notable change of the period appears to have been the gradual elimination of rates
below 9 percent on Savings Mortgage Certificates issued by the Central Mortgage Bank
and, since 1970, by the Savings and Loan Associations and the Lima Savings Bank;
'the resulting relatively high average rate on a liquid savings instrument
permitted them to become more important than savings deposits and time deposits since
1973. The only other significant changes during the period were: the rate on
Agricultural Development Bonds issued by the Agricultural Bank was raised from 6
percent to 8 percent in 1968; the Housing Bank was authorized to issue Mortgage
Development Bonds at relatively attractive rates; the regional banks were allowed
to issue Certificates of Deposit at 8 and 9 percent rates; and BIP was authorized to
offer Participation Certificates at 10 percent. COFIDE's bonds held by the public
yielded 8 percent and Public Investment Bonds issued to the public earned 10 percent.
21.    Interest rate policy on the lending side suffered from the same rigidity during
1962-1975. Since 1962, the interest rate charged by commercial and savings banks for a
loan or an overdraft has been limited to a maximum of 12 percent per annum plus a
commission of 1 percent. However, an increasing diversification in the structure of
rates resulted from the pursuit of credit selectivity through the state development



APPENDIX A - Page 7
banks, particularly since 1968. This diversification was of course made possible
by the policy of the Central Reserve Bank to provide the specialized banks with
ample financial resources at preferred rediscount rates.
22.    The extreme rigidity in interest rates on savings instruments as well as
the lending rates during the 1962-1975  was maintained in the face of substantial
fluctuations in the rate of inflation; furthermore the interest rates were very
low in comparison with the average annual inflation of about 10 percent. Mounting
criticism against such an flexible  policy in recent years led to a major change
in legislation in mid-1976, through which all statutory limitations on interest
rates were removed; instead, the executive branch through its agencies (the Monetary
Policy Council, the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Central Reserve Bank),
has been authorized to regulate interest rates as necesEsry.  Following this,
a new structure of interest rate ceilings was announced on June 24, 1976 .
The ceilings under the new regulations, which reflect an average increase of 3-4%
in the deposit and lending rates, are presented in Table 9.         Under the new system,
banks are allowed to charge up to 2% for demand deposits, 9% for savings deposits
and 10-17% on time deposits (depending on the maturity and the type of bank). The
lending rates are correspondingly higher, ranging from 14.5% for the Central
Mortgage Bank to 19% maximum auth-orized for financieras.
23.    Finally, Table 10 shows the evolution of structure of interest rates on
central bank credit to financial institutions. Till 1975, commercial banks and
private financial enterprises are entitled to borrow at only penalty rates for
normal rediscount -- i.e., rates above those they charge on their deposits from
the public, but concessionary rates are applied in all the other cases. This
situation, which continues even after the most recent interest rate reforms, has
led to a lack of interest on the part of commercial banks in central bank credit.
The Central Reserve Bank applies rates of 2 to 4 percent on rediscounts to BIP and
2 percent on lending to the Treasury. The lowest rate is applied to credit to
Banco de la Nacion to finance the rice crop, an operation which was transferred to
it from the Agricultural Bank in 1971 when the rate was reduced from 2.5 percent.
COFIDE, which received Central Bank credit (of SI. 1 billion) for the first time
in early 1976, is expected to pay rates of 2-5 percent.
24.    Selective rediscount rates for regional development ranging from 3.5 to 5
percent were first introduced for regional banks in 1969. To favor the expansion
of these banks, the normal rediscount rate applicable to them was also lowered from
9.5 to 6 percent. In 1971, regional development rediscounts were extended to
associated banks at somewhat higher rates than those applicable to the regional
banks, and the volume of operations was expanded. Although as shown earlier, the
total volume of such rediscounts is small, their selective impact is likely to be
large and adequate to the needs of intended firms.
LCPD-f
September 1976



Table 1    Pwe-i  Finanial Requir   t bY 8eetor, 1 p8-i%975
19G8         1.969'       1970         !WI          1972         1973           1974          1975
General governmenti/
Investaellt                                             4,494         41,1%        6,656        3,397        9,493        9,345         14,497         n.a.
Saving                                                    -748        4?3t         4,5w         1,226        1,551        -1,141           816         n.a.
Financial eltaiets                                       5,242         .L!i        2,09         1,171        7,942       10,486         13,681         n.a.
Central Go"rikwW
Intestment                                              4,071                      6,59         2,3648       8,4709       -,665         13,747         n.a.
Saying                                                   -94o                      6;6 7AM                   8T9            ,65P.74                    na
Foinanilrqirzet                                                                                              1,4oo        -1,145           727         n.a.
Financial reejutre:iienta                                5,011          ,3 1j,6S8               6,36a        7,379         9,810        13,020
Local governments
1nvestmnlr                                                !423          40T                       909           714          680           75c            roo
Saving                                                    .W2                                     10 49  100   151             4            6          n.a.
Financial requtrement6                                    231                                     809           563          676           66r
Bwiness sectoIA
Inrestanet                                             21,           23,637Q        , -3       3L,239       32,341        41,63T        62,919         s.a.
Saying     t5,i5                                                     22 ,                      34,226        38,149       39,950        50,131         n.e.
FinancIla teecuirekentc                                 V26           ij4119                    41"          -5,808        1,88T        12,,788        n.a.  z
Public ertTprtjeiee
Investment                                              2,557         4,307        3,852        3,833        4,963        10,318        22,153         n.a.
Saving                                                     302        1,0O4        1,951        1,581         1,874        1,446         2,711         n.a.   -
Financial requS,rments                                   2,255        3,3OV        1,901        2,252         3,089        8,872        19,442         n.a.
Social aecurity/ 
Investmernt                                                 51          355          429          348           160          198           519         1,168  p
Sa-ing                                                     686        1,362        1,575        1,814         2,543        4,237         6.661         7,751  $
Financial requirements .                                  -635       -1,007       -1,146       -1,466         2,383       -4,039        -6,142        -6,c83  Cs
Private enterprises and finencial sector66
Investment                                              18,681       19,008       20,112       27,053        27,218       31,321        40,247         na.
Saving                                                  24,537       19,647       25,056        30,731       33,732       34,267        40,759         n.e.
Financial requirements                                  -5,856         -639       -4,944        -3,673       -6,514       -2,946          -512         n.a.
Perscnal se-tor
Financial requirements (t - Saving)                          5       -2,815       -6,177        -4,199       -1,735       -6,444           677 T.
Extc2rna1 sector
Financiai requirements (=  - Savin4g)                   -1,011        1,203        8,268           -85         -399       -5,929       -27,146        -63,386
Sources:  Banco Central de Reserva del Peru, Cuentas Nacionales del Pcr, 1960- 173) Tables 5, 13, 14, 15, except for rearrangenents based on unpublished
data as indicared in footnotes below.  Updates for 1973-75 were provIJed by the lational Income Accounts section. of the Banco Central de Reserva del Peru.
(For further details see Tables 5.3 through 8.13 in the Statistical Appendix.)
V Includes investment of all decentralized acencies, but excludes saving of : inancial decentralized agencies. It therefore overestimates government
fLnancial requirements by a small amount.
.    Excludes investment of public financial decentral.zed agencies.  It therefcre underestimates business financial requirements by a small amount.
/ Data provided by the National Income Accounts section of the Banco Central de Reserva del Peru.



Table  2.   Financial Structure  of  the  Economy, 1965-75
(in million of soles)
Percentage
diattu                                               itribu.                                  xg'u'                        Jur 17  17
(1965)            1966    1967      1968      1969     1970      an1  _            1973      19T)               1:4    19rS
A88Z'T 100.0                                                  81.639  ss.468  1092792  128,893  i49.327  L81 s42  RROJU   64-M    321,951  415.473   100.0    361,552  44. 337
I. Originsting in the financial system
(indirect finance)                             49.9    40,731  47,237   57 973   62,353   73,500   95 886  lio,926  134,612  167,942  222,492    53.6    190,671  238,674
A. Banking system                              46.o    37,523  42,694   52,257   55,382   65,020   84,842   95,314  115,784  144,014  191,336    46.3    163,222  202,3aO
Currency in circulation                      8.5     6,943   7,878    8,911    9,930   11,712   16,178   18,861   21,811   27,074   33,330         8.0      27,863   35,530
Demand deposits                             11.4     9,289  10,862   13,308   14,286   18,330   28,333   27,304   37,3D5   45,782   61,303    14.8          53,402   54,957
Saving and time depoatts                    13.2    10,744  11,108   10,869   11,671   15,237   18,850   22,825   24,290   29,561   39,625         9.5      33,520   43,181
Foreign currency deposits                    4.2     3,443   4,161    5,179    4,607    3,7O5        640       466      584       502    4,808     1.2         555    3,302
Saving mortgage certificates                 0.5       385   1,009    1,372    1,823    2,317      5,413    7,165    9,577   12,155   14,428       3.5      13,420   16,261  t
Au other                                     8.2     6,721   7,676   12,619   13,064    13,720   15,699   18,693   22,216   28,942   37,842        9.1      34,463   49,150  'd
B. Ron-bank financial system                    3.9     3,208   4,543    5,716    6,972    8,4aD   U,044   15,613   18,829   23,927   31,156          7.5      27,449   36,295  m
Demdnd depoasta                              0.2       126      150      139      238       409      461       557      668      850    1,207      0.3         879    1,113
Saving and time deposits                     0.9       744   1,299    1,760    2,394    2,917    4,657    6,041    7,307    8,332    9,729         2.3       9,014   11 035  H-4
Capital contributions                        0.8       688   1,100    1,410    1,970    2,623      3, 379    5,505    6,727    8,721   11,405      2.7      10,107   14,028  x"
Other                                        2.0     1,650   1,996    2,406    2,370    2,530    2,547    3,511    4,126    6,025    8,816         2.1       7,450   10,119  >
II. Originating outside the financial system
(direct finance)                               50.1    40,908  48,231   51,306   66,540   75,827   86,063  109,645  129,749  154,010  192,981    46.4    170,881  205,662  1
A. Public sector                                0.7       586     881    1,071    2,447    2,376    8,424    9,340   15,991   18,047   21,960         5.3      19,834   23,710  H
Investment bonds                             -       *-                                               72    1,999    2,473    3,831    6,823       1.6       4,788    8,873  53
Agrarian debt bonds                          --        --       70       139      498       541    5,280    6,027    7,063    7,854    7,872       1.9       8,047    7,776  V
Other                                        0.7       586      811      933    1,948    1,835    2,672    1,314    6,455    6,362    7,266        1.7       6,999    7,061  r'
B. Enterprise aend personal sector             48.5    39,588  46,562   49,387   62,982   72,287   76,418   99,069  112,431  134,498  169,556    40.8    149,582  18o,488
Shares                                      44.5    36,344  43,097   44,646   57,429   66,538   70,574   92,8au   109,271  131,010  165,910    39.9    146,063  176,842  k
Bonds-and other                              4.0     3,244   3,465    4,741    5,553    5,749    5,844    6,259    3,161    3,488    3,646         0.9       3,519    3,645
C. External sector                              0.9       734     789       848    1,112    1,165    1,222    1,235    1,328    1,465    1,465        0.4       1,465    1,465
ZASILITIES                                        100.0    82.534  !L288  112,009  1t2,934  13          04,627  224,750  270 713  333,855  427.028   100.0    370,017  458.331
I. Originating in the financial system
(indirect finance).                            50.4    41,625  49,057   60,703   66,414   77,793   98, 64   115,106  140,964  179,845  234,047    54.8    199,136  252,669
A. Banking system                              46.7    38,553  44,564   54,938   59,109   68,961   88a,46   100,411  i22,984  156,160  201,590    47.2    172,26D  213,879
Credit                                      36.1    29,783  34,135   41,d83   46,273    53,366   58,760   67,025   77,577  101,511   131,537    30.8    115,758  154,699
Investment bonds                             --        --      --        -        *-      1,200    5,009   10,266   18,o48   25,633   25,794       6.o      29,001   27,825
International assets and other credit
to external sector                          9.1     7,513   8,072   10,744   10,505   12,149   21,742   20,087   24,247   26,153   41,936         9.8      24,709   29,165
Other                                        1.5     1,257   2,357    2,312    2,331    2,246    2,635    3,034    3,112    2,863    2,324          0.5      2,792    2,191
B. Non-bank financial system                    3.7     3,073   4,493    5,764    7,306    8,832   10,419   14,694   17,980   23,685   32,457         7.6      26,875    38,790
Credit                                       3-3     2,703    3,972    5,248    6,583    8,030    9,499   12,967   15,320   20,553   29,240        6.8      23,631   35,133
Other                                        CA        370      520      516      723       801      920    1,727    2,661    3,132    3,217       0.8       3,245    3,656
II. Origtnating outside the financial system
(direct finance)                               49.6    40,908   48,231   51,306   66,540   75,827    86,063  109,645  129,749  154,010  192,981    45.2    170,881  205,662
A. Public sector                                o.6       456      550      683      i44    1,057    1,043    1,193    1,302    1,442    1,442        0.3       1,442    1,442
B. Lnterprise and personal sector              27.7    22,c74  29,267   31,962   44,211   50,595   60,993   81,393   99,782  123,588  158,837    37.2    141,404  171,344
(shares, bonds, and other securities)
C. Extcrral sector (shares, bonds, and other   21.3    17,57d  16,395   18,661   21,384   24,175   24,028   27,058   28,665   28,980   32,702         7.7      28,035   32,876
securities)
Bourcet Banco Central de Reserva del Feru, Cuentas Financieras del Ferui 1965-1973 (Division de ULtudios Seon.icos, Depsrtawmto de Moneda y Banca, 1975), Tables 1 and 2. Updates to
June 1975 were provided by the office in cnarge of this publicati3n,



Table 3.  Peru:  Selected Statistics on the Banking System and COFIDE
1965       1968        1973        1975
Commercial banks
Credit to the public sector                -1,369        -115     10,504      13,122
Credit to the private sector               14,477      18,046     42,610      58,987
Liabilities to the private sector          16,908      21,783      41,806     56,355
State development banks
Credit to the public sector                  -144        -437       8,997     14,238
Credit to the private sector                5,638      12,303     28,421      45,585
Liabilities to the private sector           1,258       3,021      16,152     23,297
Agricultural Bank
Credit to the public sector                  -257        -315         249         577
Credit to the private sector                2,850       5,337      10,432     16,312
Liabilities to the private sector             127         215       1,050       1,089
Industrial Bank (Banco Industrial del Peru)
Credit to the public sector                    94         -55       3,400      3,961
Credit to the private sector                1,820       4,047       7,807     13,300
Liabilities to the private sector              59         127         296         529
Mining Bank
Credit to the public sector                     2           4          20          20
Credit to the private sector                  278         849       1,459       2,066
Liabilities to the private sector               4          37         116         173
Central Mortgage Bank
Credit to the public sector                   -24         -99       4,270      7,302
Credit to the private sector                  959       2,058       7,321     10,730
Liabilities to the private sector           1,063       2,593      13,625      19,258
Housing Bank
Credit to the public sector                    40          28       1,058      2,378
Credit to the private sector                    2          12      1,407       3,178
Liabilities to the private sector               5          48       1,065       2,248
National Bank
Credit to the public sector                 1,815       1,715     -1,657      14,465
Credit to the private sector                  186         169         287      1,577
Liabilities to the private sector             457         751       2,464      2,904
COFIDE
Credit to the public sector                   --          --        2,932      9,727
Credit to the private sector                  --          -           620      4,081
Liabilities to the private sector             --          -           237      1,703
Source:  Banco Central de Reserva del Peru, Cuentas Financieras del Per6, 1965-
1973 (Divisi6n de Estudios Economicos, Departamento de Moneda y Banca, 1975),
Tables 16 through 23, and 29; and subsequent updates.



Table 4. Peru: Components of Net Domestic Credit by the Central Reserve Bank, 1965-1975
Net credit to    oNw        Credit to  Commercial       State        National      Total
the public      Central       the       banks       development       Bank     classified   Misc.
sector         Govt.      banks                     banks
1965                4,596          4,612       2,118         108         2,010           ...        6,714          -80
1966                6,662          6,667       1,525         242         1,284           .,.        8,187           30
1967                7,506          7,527       1,779         116         1,663           ...        9,285         -434
1968                9,119          9,422       1,627         224         1,403           ...      10,746          -426
1969                9,410          9,432       1,884         461         1,423           ...      11,294          -501
1970                9,433          9,433       3,394       1,221         2,173                    12,827       -1,125
1971                9,480          9,481       6,635      1,795          2,776          2,064     16,115       -1,725
1972 March          9,834          9,834       7,675       1,831         3,626          2,218     17,509       -1,412
June          9,832           9,832      7,485       1,941         4,444          1,101      17,317       -1,902
Sept.         9,830           9,830       7,699      1,868         3,666           2,165     17,529       -1,621
Dec.          9,845           9,845      8,629       1,662         4,884           2,083     18,474       -1,825
1973 March          9,839          9,839       8,353       1,364         5,426          1,563     18,192        -1,500
June          9,820           9,820      9,541       1,880         6,914             747     19,361       -1,960
Sept.         9,808           9,808      8,629       1,518         5,736          1,376      18,437       -1,628
Dec.          9,730           9,730      9,520       1,662         6,870             988     19,250       -3,865
1974 March          9,683          9,683      11,232       2,161         8,833            238      20,915      -2,054      x
June          9,438           9,438     12,873       2,407         9,837             630     22,311       -2,473      >
Sept.          8,807          8,807     12,692       2,037         9,129          1,525      21,499       -2,328      1
Dec.          9,103           9,103     13,624       2,112        10,372           1,140     22,727       -3,121      H
1975 March          9,216          9,216      14,326      1,591         11,868            868     23,542       -3,214
June          9,213           9,213     18,245       4,212        13,484             550     27,458       -3,716
Sept.         9,345          9,344      25,012       7,366        12,552          5,093      34,357       -4,931
Dec.           9,350          9,350     30,339      10,029        14,408          5,902      39,689       -4,209
1976 March          9,315          n.a.       33,605     10,694         17,085          5,826     44,6371/    -2,673
Source:  Banco Central de Reserva del Peru, Cuentas Financieras del Peru, 1965-1973, Tables 15 and 15a and
updates provided by the Money and Banking section of the Banco Central de Reserva del Peru.  The "Total
classified" shown in this table excludes "Credit to enterprises and persons", "Credit to non-bank financial
institutions", "Capital, reserves, provisions and results" and "Other assets and liabilities (net)", which are
hereby reclassified as "Miscellaneous" items. The private sectors and non-bank financial institutions have not
received but nominal amounts of credit in extraordinary and rare circumstances. "Miscellaneous" includes--
besides the items mentioned above as excluded from the Total--"deposits of non-bank financial institutions",
"deposits of the enterprises and persons" and "other liabilities" (foreign currency deposits and exchange
certificates).
1/ Includes 1,000 million soles to COFIDE and 717 million soles to Fondo Nacional de Propiedad Social.



Table 5. Peru: Selective Credit System for Conmmercial Banks
Private ban  with
Regional banks                                     Associsted num*a (branch offices)                                        head office tn
Lima/Callao
A. O_eral wortfolioesirmen                    60 per cent of the Increase In credit tince May 1, 19b, of comaerciel banks with principal offices in Lima must be directed to first,
second and third prtority sectors. Until September 'O, 1975, 20 per cent of the increase in credit sinet October 29, 1971 of comercil
banks vith principal offices In Lima vere requirel to be in tjie form Gt TrCabury-issued public investment bonds.
b. Balective rediccoant facility
1. Atents                                8/. 240 mllion                                      S/. 157 million
I. Characteristics of credit
a.  snericisries                     Firms whose capital does not exceed 8/. 8 million.
b. Destination of credit              Credit iuat be directed to agriculture, fishing for domestic consumptlon  Industries of first end second priority (for northeast region 
also industries of third priority as weLl s those not assigned priorityS, tourism, handicrafts, river-borne transport, bunting aH
trapping (for mid-south region, vintners and distilleries), as well as all social property fires located outside LIMA.
C. Maturity                           180 days, except for credit for lumber extractton and eretit Vir conutruction o r ApeAsiuon of hotels, which May have up to 360  ays of
maturity.
d. Credit ltiits                     S/. 250,000 to firma vith capital of less then S/. 250,000 (including those without subscribed capital).
For fires vith capital of S/. 250,000-S/. 1,000,000, credit is limited to en astount equal to capital.                                             H
For firms vith capital of 8/, 1,000,OO0-8/. 8,000,000, credit limit is S/. 1,000,000 plus 30 per cent of capital sove 8/. 1,000,000.
a. Interest rates                    For social property firms, as vell a  firms in the northleast, Tumbes, Piura, Piuno and Tacna, 8 per cent; all others, 9 per cent.
;d3.   tdacount rateat
a. for social property firms,
and fires with less than
a/. 1,000,000 capital            2.0 par cent                                        3.5 per cent
b. for fires with capital of
8/. 1,000,000-S/. 4,000,ooo      2.5 per cent                                        4.0 per cent
p. For fires vith capital of
8/. 4,000,000-8/. 8,000,000       3.5 per cent                                       5.0 per cent
(continued)
Sates 3a.-3c. ar reduced by 1 percentage point in the case of firma located in the departments of Tumabes, Piure, Puno an4 Tacna.  For fires located in the northeast regio,
rate 3a. is reduced by 1 percentage point and rates 3b. and 3c. are both 3.0 per cent.



TABLE 5.  (concluded) Peru:  Selective Credit System for Commercial Banks
private banks with
Regional banks                                    Associated banks (branch offices)                                        head office Ia
C. Special rediscount facility
1. Amount                                S/. 100 miLlion to be shared by regional banka end oranch offices of assowiatec banks.
2. Cheracteriatics of credit
a. Destination of credit             Financing of projects of special Interest for regtonel development, for loans in excess or the maximum limit epplicable for *eah miSe
of firm ln the selective rediscount facility. Approval of the Central Reserve Bank is retuired.
b. Interest ratee                    Same as those governing credit under the selective credit facility.
3. Rediscount rates                      Sme as those governing rediscounts under the selective credit facility.                                                                        H
ure.: Central Ileamrv  sank of Peru.
t_n



Table 6.  Peru:  Corrnercial ard Savings Bank-Credit Granted by Econoriic Sectors, 1950-1975
(End of period, in miUion6s of soles)
Purcha8es &
Purchases    saleo or                       Central       Public                /
Year     Agriculture   Livestock   Mining   Fisiing   Industry   and sales   securities &  Construction    Govt.    institutional/  Other-f   Total
of goods    invest. goods
1950          185           31          26       ...          445         71            70               78          30            10            186       1,755        hd
1955          592           97          54       ,,.        1,069      1,547           220              163          32            34            423       4,233        Z
196o          824          154         81                   1,841      2,467           314              295          49           115            641       6,785        U
1965       1,278           321        184        746        3,688      5,359            380             640          61           405          1,429      14,491        H
1966       1,393           337        184        687        3,849      6,024           489              909          22           281          1,526      15,703
1967       1,426           301        165        811        4,130      6,013           484              971          34           177          2,113      16,625
1968       1,290           316        183        822        4,890      6,107           637           1,174           25           153          2,348      17,946
1969       1,320           260       -102        816        6,037      4,848           936            1,777          57           123          3,263      19,538        H
1970       1,287           253         123       585        8,249      4,939         1,750           2,265           13           14l9         4,019      23,633
1971       1,208           373         312       346       10,531      5,986         2,130            2,761          19           196          4,663      28,525        cr
1972       1,255           514        261        329       13,256      7,005         2,259            3,718          34           160          5,748      34,539        (D
1973       1,255          606          252       299       16,413      8,'t64        2,233            5,177          19           260          7,303      42,568
1974       1,158           706         34 8      343       16,741      9,639         2,44o           6,345           32           308          7,873      45,933
1975       1,107           843        661        241       22,516    12,621          2,602           7,158            6           356         10,760      58,871
Source:  Superintendencia de Bsnca y Seguros, Memoria 1974, pp. 264-67.  Data for early years and updates for 1975 were provided by the
Superintendencia.
_V  Inclwies: Municipalities, enterprises, Banco de la Naci6n, National Social Security Fund, charitable inatitutions, etc.
W Includes loana granted to rentists, professionals and those granted for other nonspecified purpoBes.



Table 7.  Peru:  Commercial, Savings and Development Banks--
Credit Granted by Economic Sectors
(End of period, in millions of soles)
Compound
annual              Percentage distribution
Amount                             rate of                     in total
1968     1969      1970      1971      1972      1973    increase   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973
Agriculture
& livestock   7,170    8,026    8,480    9,474   10,812   12,582           11.9       23      24     22      20      18      16
Fishing         1,557    1,267        887       795    1,120    4,163       21.7        5       4       2      2       2       5
Industry        8,278    9,487   11,534   14,008   18,605   22,595          22.2       27      28      30     30      32      30    >
Mining          1,019       992       910    1,300    1,544    1,700        10.8         3      3       2       3      3       2    X
Commerce        6,744    5,783    6,689    8,115    9,375   12,059          12.3       22      17      17     17      16      16    @
Construction   3,804    4,843    6,137    8,333   11,393   15,594           32.3       12      14      16     18      19      20
Public sector    178        180       162       216       194       279      9.4        1       1       1                      I. ..  1
Other           2,348    3,263    4,019    4,663    5,748    7,303          25.5         8      9      10      10     10      10
Total    31,098   33,841   38,822   46,904   58,791   76,275           19.7      100    100    100    100    100    100
Source: Superintendencia de Banca y Seguros.



Table 8.  Pam:  Intweret Rates on Deposits and Othier Savings InBtruinnt,. 1962.1i975
(In per cent)                                                                     9
1.96       1963        1,6*        1965       1,66        1967        1968       1969        1970       1-97        1972       1913        157%.       17       eIp*s
Agricultural ssk                ..                        -           --           6          6           6          6           6                      3                 6          6                 6
I,neir.~~~~~~~~          5-6         5.6        5-6 ~~~~~~~~~~ 5-6      5-16        5-16       5-16        14         36 4                    5-6        5-6         56           -
.Usawle    floawnAsss.V            6          6           6           6          6           6           6          6           6           6          6           6           66                    -
00pvt1aie5'5                                                          5           5           5          5           5           5                      5                      555
i~~~~~~~lF~~~LbsJ/  7      7          1           '1 ~~~~~~~~~~ 71       7           7           17                     1                      T           T           7 
A.IClc.tsr11                       -                                                          T           T          7                                  7           1           7.7 
Istostrisi Bush                                                                                  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T1   .1  1  1         1
Nisiog C.i.a                                                                                     1    ~    ~~          ~~~         ~~        ~~~~         ~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 7  7T1.1   
8.11a4s arA L.   A6                                                                           6          6           6                                              6           6-6
bo~~~~.ute4hea5           t3Wla                              3D          W           0           D 3   3JD                         la          i           60         to1t
Ceowatt"s            7           T        ~~~.1         T           7          7           7           7          7           7           T          7           7           I          7
n1ea"ina  9tweJ'p54.                                     .44         ,-.     ..15 PUS                  .5-!:"l   06*-'U-    9.5-L'        9lwe.3        a        941~        9*-5-1a                   a
Lti   64t,t   A: 'a     5--.-1-.5p5-.-   1-.-                            -.5-       T.5-9       7.5-9      1.5-9       T.5-9      1.5-9           9          9           P 
hartasga Dwiev1ouet Seeds
'If p,i'sto deselieost beak.                                                                                                                                                             10          ID
Certiricatesa   Le0pouit of, r      -         -           -           -          .            .          -                                                    ~     a           S           a         S-p
t      local haek1           I. -            -           -                       -          .-          -           -          -                                   9  -        9          9          9.5
A;piculum.l Develop. Bonds
ca, UsldIckUtur.1sok              -          -            6           6          6           6                      a                                  a                       a           a         p.s
of Us 1-!.AstrW-                                                      -          .- -                   10          to         10          10          10         so          10          10
*5emit d.0es-e5t5  . t
Ces.tre.l XOflga41 IwJ                                           I.
Mzt 4'ftIc?lceat  aod         -.9
of tic llusiog I1st                          _-                       - _                    -191                             --8        791          4.         .-8        191          -.0
SOMIA of private dsenlopessbi
bs.td. L M%. "teVsta                        9- 9- 9-                                                                                                                                      '99.
CocMarcial   sak Wad                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(io) 
CCrMA - Ik-- .A.Of                                                                                                                              a           a          a        .  a           a
Public i*restasat bonal                                                                                                                                                                  5-6-20     54-&W
Bveesre  mr4Z. raetm
8o.rese,ss eat  Ceotral de euRvew del For,. 3&s3;n                 iIsure'f NIosS'Rnd  ON peett Lceenei. Vve"lsgsees in hcwz Germ&  to I& Ielesa, 1 4 a                            med NUlstertn do
somlel p Yioe*s. Prop"W9  pr FM    Ifit~e   et'ctw    eit W -mss                  dee 1. tteres seelvee.  Me staf  OC ti. A.esdta de La Owsreis Gosa   a   atoCeil4 oesensa del puze
3.4tin  help in 'e.ststruesixg the Series, wtthey ar.ee  repnsbefo   mses  error..
l 1c1uiee re.a  sni po rivwte develepeest beAks med tim  Lim. Sawleg  lek.
5 pr cnt   aleinofftCel 6 per test In broach otffies.
Tim. deposits a" reguslarl,y eapltALllad at 7 per cost.
6 per cent for ;eriod of less thme or,* yass ID Per ceat ftr psorta  of mome thme en. yesr.
9. 5 per esoit 3so to-e deposits fros -,60 to 51.0 dasp; 10 per cant os tise dposlto fro.. 541 to 720 days; 19. per cent on tlme deposits frem 7*2 to 970 das; 11 per ced4t to tine depsit.
fros 901 to I ,C.   s.  13.5 per cent tn tier dtposits fri. 1,031 days.
T..ea demfif lt.. sic like savirg.i  d4posits btcaus.. they can be transformed Into the. at par.
T, At..t~rL &el ty Circalar 154. of Elov,sh.r 2t', 1971 a. faLloum: 8 per ceat an certificates of deposit ef 15 lIe" a 'Mo-4y notwirty; 9 per cent an t*.ose rutb .4 s%Asity of oai'*ajs
Tt..,, certificates vere ast.tLrizal by Sr.prinss Decree 016448-IC (of February 12, 19.:9).  They akre sot in nirenultice. ci te presoat tune (Aflrt2 196.
7  er crr  as credit docusents ouitctaniei.g, and 9 per coat an now credit docesents.
U&S. euiutrritel by Decree Lee 17863 of OcLober.22, 1969. 5oods ia she first. tniri and fourtA series pay 7 per cos; thee. Lis toe rifth sad sixth ertiee r4y 9 peren&%$t tiiedt lIs %W
otc='t eerie. ;ay 3fl per test.
wilt 155*3l yet.
yIthl   Xovestmot Bonds held by th,e bomkin  eynon s    ponrt o  the legal reserve. pay 5 per cent.  Co=unity 9eveopnerA Bonds pey 6 per ent.. Public lonevetseal %&nds V'hich ni"  Sam



Table 9. Peru: Interest Rate Ceilings on Lending and Deposits, June, 1976
(in percent)
LENDING
RATES                 R A T E S  O N  D E P O S I T S
T I M E  D E P 0 S I T S
Demand      Savings    90-180       180-270    270-360   more than
Deposits   Deposits       days         days        days    360 days
A.  Commercial Banks, State Develop-           15.5        2.0         9.0         10.0        11.0        12.0        13.0
ment Banks, Lima Savings Bank
and Private Industrial and
Construction Development Banks-
B.  Regional Banks                             15.5        2.0         9.0         10.5        11.5        12.5        13.5
C.  Financial Enterprises -/                   19.0         -           -            -           -           -         13.0-17.0  It
D.  Central Mortgage Bank -                    14.5        2.0         9.0           -           -           -           -         e
E.  Housing Cooperatives                       14.5         -          9.0         10.0        11.0        12.0        13.0
l
1/ These are also authorized to issue "cedulas" at rates of up to 11%.
2/ Financial enterprises are authorized to issue financial bonds ("bonos financieras") at rates of up to 12%.



APPENDIX A - Table 10
Table 10. Structure of Interest Rates on Central Reserve Bank Credit*
1968      1970          1973           1975        June, 1976
Commercial banks with head office
in Lima/Callao
Rediscounts and guaranteed loans         9.5       9.5           9.5             9.5            12.5
Selective rediscounts for regional
developmentl/2/                         -         -           3.5/4/5       3/5/4/5/5.5      3/5/4/5/5.5
Treasury bills                           -         -                             1                1
Regional banks
Rediscounts and guaranteed loans          9.5      6             6                6               9
Selective rediscounts for regional
development.2/                                  2/2.5/3.5    2/2.5/3.5    2/2.5|3.5/4         2/2.5/3.5/4
Banco Nacional            3
Financing of rice crop /                           -             0.5             0.5              0.5
State development banks
Agriculture Ban3/                      2/2.5    2/2.5            2                1               1
Industrial Ba       am (  e ndue trial    4        4             2-4             2-4              2-4
Mining Bank                               4        4             4                2
National Fund for Social Property(FONAPS) -          -             -                2               2
Financial enterprises-5/
Rediscounts and guaranteed loans         --        -             11              11               16
Public Treasury                             2         2             2               2               2
COFIDE                                      --       -             --               2.5             2.5
Source:  Banco Central de Reserva del Peru, Boletin del Banco Central de Reserva
del Peru (Lima, various monthly issues including December 1975).
*The Central Reserve Bank is authorized to charge lower rates than those shown in the officially
published schedule.
1/ Only available to associated banks.
2/ For firms located in the departments of Tumbes, Piura, Puao and Tacna, rates
are reduced by 1 percentage point. For firms in the northeast region, the second.
rate is unavailable and the first and last rates are reduced by I percentage point.
3/ The refinancing of rice crops was performed through the Agricultural Bank at
2.5 per cent interest until 1971; thereafter it was transferred to the National Bank
and the rate was lowered to 0.5 per cent.
4/ Beginning in 1973, a 2 per cent rate is applied to firms of less than a pre-
specified amount.
5/ Financial enterprises were made eligible to receive credit from the Central
Bank beginning in 1971.



APPENDIX B
PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
The Social Property Sector
A.       Legislation and Concept
1.       The Law of Social Property Firms (D.L. 20598) of Peru was passed by
the Government on May 2, 1974 after a significant amount of public discussion
and debate within the Government. 1/ It provides the legal framework for the
new Social Property Sector (Sector de Propiedad Social-SPS),composed essentially
of worker-managed enterprises in which the workers make most of the operating,
marketing and financial decisions including determination of their own wages.
2.       Social property is seen as a new form of property ownership distinct
from state or private ownership, and as an attempt through which to implement
the Government's stated goals of constructing a "fully participatory social
democracy" 2/ that is neither capitalist nor communist in nature. Since
assumption of control in August 1975, the Government of President Morales
Bermudez reiterated its commitment to this form of pluralistic democracy,
which foresees a mixed economy in which SPS would co-exist with enterprises
under the three other forms of ownership, namely, public, private and reformed-
private enterprises. Economically, SPS is intended to accomplish a more equi-
table distribution of income while at the same time permitting a rapid economic
growth through more cooperative labor-management relations and worker incomes
linked directly to the firm's performance.
B.       Structural Components of the Social Property Sector
3.       An elaborate organizational structure has been designed to administer
and support SPS. By law, SPS is to have three levels of self-manged institu-
tions: the individual Social Property Enterprises (Empresas de Propiedad Social-
EPSs), regional assemblies performing certain planning and coordinating functions,
and a peak-level National Assembly. The internal organization of all these
institutions are to be democratic with no government or other outside represen-
tatives among them. Workers of each individual EPS elect three delegates to the
regional assembly; each regional assembly in turn sends the president of its
management council and two other elected delegates to the National Assembly.
1/ Subsequent modification of the Social Property Law, mainly through Decree-Law
(D.L.) 21304, D.L. 21317   and D.L. 21506, are also incorporated into the
following description of the sector.
2/ Defined by President Velasco Alvarado in October 1971 as "a system based on
a moral order of solidarity rather than individualism; on a fundamentally
self-managed economy in which the means of production are predominantly
social property, under the direct control of those who by their work gene-
rate wealth; and on a political order where the power of decision, far from
being the monopoly of political or economic oligarchies, is diffused and
rooted essentially in social, economic and political situations managed,
without intermediation or with a minimum of it, by the men and women who
form them."



APPENDIX B - Page 2
4.       While in theory the National Assembly is the highest administrative
body of SPS, its formal powers at the national level are limited; a wide range
of policy-making administrative and financial powers are enjoyed by what may
be called the "supporting structure" of SPS, comprised of various autonomous
and semi-autonomous agencies. The most important among them are the National
Social Property Commission (Comision Nacional de Propiedad Social, CONAPS), the
National Social Property Fund (Fondo Nacional de Propiedad Social, FONAPS),
COFIDE, and the Housing Fund for Social Property Workers. In addition, govern-
ment bodies such as the National Planning Institute, the Council of Ministers,
and the various ministries in charge of economic affairs have varying degrees
of control; in particular, all EPS investments must be approved by the relevant
ministry. The interrelationships among these various agencies are indicated
in Figure 1. The following is a brief description of the support organizations.
CONAPS is an administrative agency created to execute the national
social property policy. It has important powers of decision regard-
ing the constitution, merger and dissolution of EPSs, their hiring
policies and some financial affairs of the sector, particularly
those relating to the issue of the non-voting shares (accio-bonos -
see para. 7) by EPSs. It also exerts an indirect control on the
level of wages and salaries in each EPS since it must approve the
act of constitution of the EPS which contains a remuneration
schedule. The President of CONAPS is a member of the Interminis-
terial Committee for Economic and Social Affairs as well as the
Council of Ministers (where he has a voice but no vote), and is
also designated as the head of the National System for the Develop-
ment of Social Property (SINADEPS)-.which includes CONAPS, the
Regional Social Property Offices, and Sectoral Social Property
Sector Organs, to be created in ministries and other Central Govern-
ment agencies. CONAPS is composed of 3 worker representatives
elected from the National Assembly of SPS; and twelve other members
representing the President of the Republic, various ministries and
other state agencies. To afford additional support for the imple-
mentation of SPS programs, D.L. 21304 provides for the establishment
of regional offices of CONAPS and sectoral social property organs
within a number of ministries and other state agencies; most of
these are yet to be established.
FONAPS and COFIDE are the key financial organs supporting the sector,
and are responsible for determining project feasibility and economic
and financial viability as well as for arranging the financing of
EPSs whose formation has been approved by CONAPS. FONAPS is governed
by an eight-member Administrative Board, consisting of three worker
members elected by the National Assembly of SPS, four representatives
appointed by the Minister of Economy and Finance (including one repre-
sentative from COFIDE), and one representative of CONAPS. The appointees
of the Minister of Economy and Finance effectively have a majority in
FONAPS, since one of the must be President of its Administrative Board
and is given, a tie-breaking vote. Individual EPSs can obtain the
required financing either in the form of conventional loans from finan-
cial institutions including COFIDE, or in the form of "Transitory
capital" (aporte transitorio), or both.  Transitory capital, which



ORGANIZATION OF THE SOCIAL PROPERTY SECTOR
Social Property Sector                               Supporting Structure                     |State
1       <     President of the Republic          C  G
National Social Property           11                                                  e o
Commission (CONAPS)                                    Council of Ministers            n v
15                                                                                                t e
National Assembly of the        S       1                                        - \               _   National Planning Institute        r r
Social Property Sector                             Regional Social Property                                                               a n
Offices (to be created)                                    SINAMOS                     I  m
t 3             '          --   13        tK\                                                     /z_n 
.  .             \                                                  /                ~~~~~~~~~       ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ministries  t  2:
Regional        Regional        Regional
Assembly        Assembly        Assembly  |                 Administrative Board
COF ~ |  ational Social Property Dvi                                                        SC
.   .   l  I  Fund IFONAPS)                  \
Sectoral Social Property Organs  |\                  \u
j    EPS    | 2    EPS    | j    EPS    l   ~~~~~(to be created ini ministries  |                                                                           (\D
LEEILEHI                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a r
Houtseing Bank of Peru                                    Housing Bank of Peru               P
3g~~~~~~~Sca PrCFIE  operty Prousing  DIvso                   l u                                               r  
a
t
0
n
Notes:   Arrows indicate representation or appointment of personnel.
Numbers indicate number of representatives
World Bank--16232



APPENDIX B - Page 4
performs the function of equity, is similar to a loan granted
without a collateral except that annual payments of a capital
charge called "income compensation" (compensacion de la renta)
are required to be continued perpetually, even after full
amortization of transitory capital. By law, both COFIDE and
FONAPS have the authority to finance the transitory capital
required for establishment or expansion of approved EPSs. In
practice, however, since the establishment of FONAPS in June,
1975, it has been decided that all transitory capital would
be financed by FONAPS, while COFIDE will restrict itself to
making conventional loans to EPSs. FONAPS has the power to
set, after negotiating with the individual firm, the terms
governing its transitory capital including the amortization
period, grace period and the special capital charge. In
addition, FONAPS will receive annually 10% of the surpluses 1/
generated by the individual EPSs.  The Administrative Board of
FONAPS has the power to enforce a firm's financial commitments
to FONAPS and may require the firm to prepare an economic
recovery plan which may include revisions in the basic remu-
neration schedule of the firm. Its decisions on these matters
are binding on the firm, with no appeal permitted. At present,
lacking any but a small secretarial staff, FONAPS relies heavily
on COFIDE for technical and administrative support to investigate
project feasibility and economic viability, but this situation
is expected to change in line with recent legislation, converting
FONAPS in effect into a full-fledged financial institution for
SPS, as opposed to an account maintained by COFIDE and governed
by an Administrative Board as provided in the original social
property legislation of May, 1974.
The Housing Fund for Social Property Workers, like FONAPS, is in
part generated out of the economic surpluses of individual EPSs.
It is a state-controlled institution under the direction of the
Minister for Housing and is managed by the Housing Bank of Peru.
C.       The Process of Social Capital Formation
5.       The socialization of capital formation, usually referred to as "social
accumulation" in Peru, is a concept directly linked to social property of the
means of production. Although workers of an individual EPS can make most of
the decisions (including those on acquisition or disposal of assets, reinvestment
policies, and remunerations) the ownership and assets of all EPSs formally lie
with the totality of the workers of SPS, and "social accumulation" is thought
of as capital formation for the sector as a whole. Individual EPSs may have
recourse to the banking system and suppliers' credits, but cannot pledge the
firm's assets as collateral except to financial institutions of the state.
1/ The law provides for a specific method of computing the surpluses.



APPENDIX B - Page 5
6.       Capital accumulation at the level of SPS takes place through FONAPS.
In addition to the special capital charges and share of the economic surplus
mentioned above, it also receives from each EPS any liquid assets in excess
of specified limits and keeps them in a demand account until needed for
current operations. Furthermore, the law requires that, after fully amorti-
zing the transitory capital, the EPS must either annually reinvest a specified
minimum amount 1/ in the firm or invest an equivalent amount in "immediately
convertible" bonds issued by FONAPS. However, in reality, the bonds are not
fully convertible; while they may be cashed by the EPS to make authorized
investments, normally they have to be purchased from FONAPS at the end of the
year in which they are converted. Also, the law does not specify whether the
bonds would carry any interest or if so, how much. The lower the rate of
interest, the greater the incentive for the EPS to reinvest in the firm's
fixed assets which, although formally owned by the totality of all SPS workers,
could generate future income accruable to the workers in the form of higher
remunerations or distributable surpluses. In effect, non-reinvested surpluses
represent accumulation at the level of the entire SPS.
7.       Individuals and non-SPS enterprises may also invest in the SPS,
sharing the profits as well as the risks of the sector, but without acquiring
any rights to control of EPSs. This is to be accomplished by selling non-voting
shares (accio-bonos) of EPSs, upon the decision of each firm's General Assembly
and with the approval of CONAPS. The financial intermediaries maintain port-
folios of these securities and a specified portion of state interest-bearing
securities and in turn, would sell "certificates of participation" (akin to
mutual fund shares) to the investing public. These financial intermediaries,
and indirectly the holders of certificates of participation, have a right to
a portion of the firm's distributable surplus and reinvestments proportional
to their share of accio-bonos in the total net assets of the firm. Holders of
certificates of participation benefit from two kinds of income tax exemption:
up to 50% of their taxable income can be used tax free for acquiring the certi-
ficates, and the income generated is also tax free. Certificates of participa-
tion are also exempt from the inheritance tax.
D.       Methods of Promotion of Social Property Projects
8.       Social Property projects fall into four basic categories aecording to
their origin. Under the first category are projects generated within the state
apparatus. These include relatively large industrial operations, such as elec-
tronics, glass and metal working complexes planned specifically for inclusion
in SPS, as well as smaller projects spun off by state enterprises as exemplified
by a slag cement plant connected to SIDERPERU's steel mill, and fish processing
industries built around the state fishery complex. Projects under this category
would tend to be relatively capital intensive projects of medium to large size.
They would be well conceived and prepared.
9.       The second type of projects are those promoted by private entrepreneurs,
attracted by the special financing mechanism and treatment accorded to SPS.
Promotion of these projects is in line with the Government's objective of
1/ Equal to the average of the five years of highest amortization payments.



APPENDIX B - Page 6
stimulating entrepreneurial activity in a wide spectrum of the pooulation which
has traditionally been hindered by lack of capital. However, lack of sufficient
identification of the entrepreneurs with the social property concept and absence
of a proper development orientation could be potential problems in these cases.
10.      The third type of projects are those originating from popular organi-
zations, such as pueblos jovenes or agrarian federations, and are particularly
attractive since they tend to cater to the needs of the poorer sections of the
population.  They are usually small to medium size operations employing relatively
simple technologies. l/ Promoters of these projects have shown considerable
organizational creativity in some cases (the most notable example being that in
Villa El Salvador, a poor suburb of Lima--see para. 20); however, they often
lack the ability to formulate their projects in terms which fulfill the require-
ments of CONAPS and FONAPS/COFIDE. While COFIDE could provide some help in the
formulation of these projects, it is not equipped to deal with a large number of
small projects requiring technical assistance in preparation. Moreover, to employ
COFIDE's staff in this type of work would be inefficient use of scarce, highly
skilled resources. It would be preferable to tap the full potential for genera-
ting this type of project. The technical assistance component of the proposed
loan to COFIDE addresses this problem.
11.      Finally, EPSs may be formed by transformation of existing non-EPSs,
provided that they are in sound financial condition and the agreement of two-
thirds of the share owners or members is obtained. In practice all of the firms
transformed or in the process of transformation through December 1975 have been
in difficult financial conditions. This, together with the lack of streamlined
procedures for the transformation, has in the past led to some tensions between
CONAPS, whose main interest is a speedy development of SPS, and FONAPS/COFIDE,
the financing agencies whiclh stress financial soundness.
12.      The special financial problems inherent in transformations, which are
likely to become more common if a large number of agrarian reform enterprises
seek to enter the SPS, appear to require additional legislation and possibly
the creation of a special high risk fund within FONAPS to support the firms in
transition until appropriate feasibility studies for their restructuring are
completed.
E.       Evaluation and Implementation of Social Property Projects
13.      From conception to final constitution as an EPS, a social property
project passes through a complicated evaluation and implementation process
which, however, is becoming increasingly streamlined with experience. Any
individual, group, or promoting firm that may prepare a project is required
to provide certain basic information to CONAPS. Copies of the project proposals
are sent by CONAPS to the National Planning Institute and appropriate ministries
for comments, and on the basis of the comments as well as its own evaluation
according to 15 different criteria, such as profitability, employment creation,
export content, and relationship with the state sector, CONAPS decides whether the
project merits further study. If the decision is positive, CONAPS may request
1/ The recent Bank urban development project in Peru includes the establishment
of industrial parks for such "grass roots" projects.



additional studies to be carried out by COFIDE and/or the project's promoters
if they have the required skills. These studies are usually financed by FONAPS
or COFIDE. When they are complete, CONAPS may decide to create an "EPS in
formation" which has the juridical personality required to continue the imple-
mentation process until the formal constitution of EPS and is directed by a
"Management Committee" l/ appointed by CONAPS.  The key financial decisions of
FONAPS and COFIDE are normally taken following the creation of an "EPS in forma-
tion" with useful input from the Management Committee. When these steps have
been completed, the EPS may be formally constituted by a vote of its workers
to decide on the statutes, the scale of remunerations, work hours, criteria
from granting bonuses, and other important aspects.  The act of constitution
must then be approved or disapproved by CONAPS within 15 days.
14.      In principle, the process for transforming a non-SPS firm into an
EPS is simpler, but may involve many of the same steps, particularly if the
transformation's viability is dependent on expansion of the firm.
F.       Operations Supported Thus Far
15.      Considering that social property may become an important form of
ownership in the manufacturing sector, amounts committed so far to its implemen-
tation have not been particularly large. At year-end 1975, CONAPS had a staff
of 84 Iprofessionals and a budget of SI. 130 million (US$2.9 million) for the
two-year fiscal period 1975-76. An additional SI. 200 million (US$4.4 million)
was requested at the end of 1975 to expand operations and implement a series of
regional offices.  Also, the budget and personnel available for implementing SPS
projects have been effectively expanded with the creation by CONAPS of Management
Committees for "EPSs in formation" (para. 13) which are eligible for advances
on transitory capital provided by FONAPS.
16.      As of October, 1976, FONAPS had at its disposal total resources amounting
to about S/. 3.3 billion of which S/. 2.5 billion were provided by the Central
Bank and S/. 0.8 billion from a COFIDE loan.   Since 1975, transitory capital of
S/. 1.9 billion (US$28.5 million equivalent) has been committed, of which S/. 912
million (US$14 million) has been disbursed--mostly from FONAPS resources. It
included some financing by COFIDE made prior to the decision to finance all
transitory capital through FONAPS. During the same time, foreign currency credits
totalling US$5.0 million equivalent to enterprises in the sector had also been
approved by COFIDE, but only about 2% of them had been disbursed.
17.      As of July, 1976, only three EFSS were formally constituted, but an
additional 31 enterprises in formation were operating on a provisional basis
under the Management Committee system, bringing the total SPS employment to over
3000 workers. Many of these firms, however, are existing companies in difficult
financial conditions which are in the process of being transformed into EPSs.
This may reflect in part the desire of CONAPS to establish quickly the credibility
of the SPS during its first 2 years of operation by having working examples of
EPSs in the shortest possible time. However, this is not seen to be indicative
of a continuing trend not only because of the legal requirement that only finan-
cially sound companies be admitted into the sector, but also due the sector's
need for capital accumulation through financially sound operations.
1/ The "Management Committees" typically include project promoters, representatives
of CONAPS and, in gome cases, officials of other state agencies.



APPENDIX B - Page 5
G.        Experience from Operating Social Property Enterprises
18.       Geographically, two-thirds of the projects approved thus far are
located outside the Lima-Callao area, thus contributing to decentralization.
Given the small number of operating EPSs, their short history of operation
ax/Vr transient stages in the process of transformation from a non-EPS to
EPS, it is not yet possible to draw definitive conclusions on their operat-
ing characteristics. Nevertheless, the following preliminary observations
have been gathered during the appraisal mission through field visits to 8
EPSs and interviews with their personnel.
19.       There were several instances that suggest a significant change in
worker attitudes accompanying the transformation to a social property firm.
Workers in some cases contributed voluntary (unpaid) work to help meet produc-
tion commitments. In one firm, unexcused absences fell by 39% and absences
due to sickness by 61%.  Workers tended to impose rather strict codes of work
discipline upon themselves; in some cases, penalties,including layoffs with-
out pay, are being instituted, and in a bus company, the workers have installed
clocks to record lateness on the part of their fellow drivers. Instances of
worker entrepreneurship in obtaining new business for their firms, active
worker-involvement in training programs outside the normal work hours and
worker-initiated innovations to improve production techniques were also
observed.
20.       Perhaps the most encouraging sign of initiative at the grass roots
level has been the emergence of innovative organizational structures in con-
nection with the development of two EPS projects, INCOSUR (Industries of the
Southern Cone) and Alpaca-Peru; the workers in these firms made organizational
changes aimed at integrating the firms with other organizations in the com-
munity and responding better to the local community needs. Fbr instance, the
management committee of INCOSUR, which is located a few miles south of Lima
within the self-managed community (pueblo joven) of Villa El Salvador, actively
participated in formulating a proposal for institutionally linking its TEPS
projects with other self-managed organizations in the community and in draft-
ing a law for the creation of community banks (cajas comunales) which would
help launch EPSs initially at local risk and initiative.
21.       The principal complaints made at the firm level were related to what
was perceived as excessive bureaucracy, red tape, and delays imposed by CONAPS,
COFIDE, and FONAPS. These problems seem to reflect the normal growing pains
of a new sector in an economy undergoing profound economic changes, and are
not a cause for serious concern at this time.
H.        Principal Implementation Problems
22.       In the first two years of SPS development, CONAP's main objective
has been to establish the credibility and presence perceived as necessary for
building political support for the sector's future expansion. It has thus
tended to emphasize the criteria of speed and visible social impact in project



APPENDIX B - Page 9
implementation over those of maximizing potential for production of economic
surpluses or priority among the projects approved. During this time, CONAPS
has also had to set up its own organization, establish procedures and policies,
encourage state agencies to provide the support (including project formulation),
and stimulate public and popular organizations to present projects for social
property enterprises. These factors have contributed to the appearance of
three major problems in the development of the sector: (a) insufficient atten-
tion to an integrated planning and development strategy in the expansion of SPS
activities; (b) lack of a clear definition of the criteria for preparation,
evaluation and financing of SPS projects and a clear specification of the
sharing of responsibilities for financing and implementation of the projects
among the various organizations concerned; and (c) absence of an effective
national training system that caters to the special technical and management
needs of EPSs.
23.      Over the coming year, greater attention is expected to be devoted to
developing a strategy for consolidating the nascent SPS, in particular, to the
interrelations between different projects and the development of a core of surplus
producing firms without which the sector's strategy of expansion based on internal
capital accumulation will be in jeopardy. In addition, an institutional mechanism
for systematic decentralization of the project preparation, evaluation and finan-
cing process could be one way to minimize some of the problems mentioned above.
This, as well as the need for a specialized training and a better institutional
framework to support promotion and preparation of new EPS projects will be
eligible for support under the technical assistance component of the proposed
loan.
I.       Outlook for Future Expansion
24.      Despite the apparent commitment of the Peruvian Government to the SPS,
there is some hostility towards the concept within the private sector with, at
best, grudging acceptance of SPS to the extent it is confined to the areas of
the economy which do not compete significantly with private enterprise. Also,
the private sector has been notably reluctant to invest new funds in its own
growth; national saving for 1975 is estimated at only 8.3% of GDP, and a majority
of the private sector investment has been going into the Lima-Callao metropolitan
area. The Government is aware of these issues and has taken a pragmatic approach
towards the private sector while gradually implementing social property legisla-
tion. At the same time, it is closely watching the potential of the SPS to raise
the rate of saving and investment while decentralizing economic activity, promoting
worker participation, and improving the distribution of income. In October 1976,
CONAPS was conducting a detailed evaluation of SPS development to date.
25.      Also,in view of Peru's current economic problems, the Government decided
to follow a policy of only gradually increasing resources available to the SPS,
while encouraging development of the projects already launched, consolidating EPSs
in operation, and strengthening the new sector's planning, financial and educational
systems, but stressing that EPSs will have to compete under equal conditions with
other enterprises. SPS development strategy is likely to focus on using the
limited financial resources available to consolidate a viable economic base in a
way tnat will generate maximum popular and governmental support, thus paving the



APPENDIX B - Page 10
way for more rapid expansion in the future should economic conditions become
more favorable. Carrying out such a strategy will require the development of
greater planning and project analysis capability within CONAPS, greater
systematization and decentralization of the project preparation, evaluation and
financing process, and more attention to the development of an effective
national worker-training system. The most important bottlenecks are likely
to be the availability of good projects (particularly projects arising from
popular bases) and possibly, skilled managers for the larger, more sophisticated
projects.
LCPDF
November 1976



APPENDIX C
PERU: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Description, Activities and Prospects of COFIDE
A.        Organization
1.        Establishment and Objectives.  COFIDE was established as an autonomous
state enterprise in 1971, principally to stimulate Peruvian entrepreneurial
activity, coordinate the financing of state enterprises, mobilize resources
towards high    priority projects, and expand the domestic capital market.  Thus,
its scope and tasks are wider and more complex than of those of most DFCs asso-
ciated with the Bank.
2.        In support of the above objectives and within the framework of Govern-
ment priorities, COFIDE, by law, 1/ has the following major functions: (a)
medium-and long-term lending (for fixed assets and working capital) on its own
account to state, reformed private, private and social property enterprises;
(b) issuing guarantees on behalf of these enterprises, either on its own account
or as the Government's agent; (c) arranging and/or participating in the financing
of state enterprises other than state banks, either on its own account or on
behalf of the Government; (d) acting as a holding company of a number of state
holding companies in the industrial and tourism sectors; (e) keeping in custody
the Government's shares in other state enterprises; (f) promoting new enterprises
and strengthening existing ones, mainly by participating in their capital; (g)
financing through loans and grants -- and occasionally preparing -- preinvestment
studies; and (h) broadening the capital market by offering to the public its
participation in non-public enterprises as well as its own shares and bonds.
By law, all medium and long-term borrowing of state enterprises (including foreign
borrowings) require COFIDE's approval, 2/ putting it in a unique central role.
3.        Ownership and Control   As of year-end 1975, COFIDE's S/. 5.05 bil-
lion paid-in share capital was held 84% by the Government,and the remainder by
individuals and companies which had received COFIDE's 'D" shares in part payment
of debt resulting from the agrarian reform.  A third group of "'C" shares which
had been held by private shareholders under the Government tax-exempt reinvestment-
of-earnings scheme were converted to "C"' bonds effective January 1, 1975 (Annex 6).
By law, the control of COFIDE rests with the Government regardless of share
ownership. COFIDE is responsib?e to MEF and is expected to orient its opera-
tions in support of the country;s Economic Development Plan.
1/ COFIDE was created by Decree-Law 18807 of 1971. As a state enterprise, it
is also subject to other public sector legislation. In addition, the General
Law of Industry of 1970, the Organic Law of the Industrial and Tourism Sector
and the Law of Social Property Enterprises, both of 1974, have important
implications as to the nature and scope of COFIDE's operations.
2/  Short-term state enterprise financing is the responsibility of Banco de la
iNacion. Thus far, many state enterprises have continued, in effect, to
arrange their own financing.



APPENDIX C - Page 2
4.        Board of Directors and Management Committee.  COFIDE's organiza-
tion includes a fourteen-member 1/ Board of Directors and a Management Com-
mittee.  The former, which is COFIDE's highest authority, is dominated by
Government appointees. In addition to the Chairman, who is appointed by the
President of Peru, the Board includes representatives of six ministries
responsible for various sectors, the Central Reserve Bank, Banco de la Nacion,
the State Banks, INP, the National Securities and Market Commission and the
National Integration Office (Annex 2). Working relations between the Govern-
ment and COFIDE are close. 2/ The Board meets weekly, taking an active interest
in directing COFIDE's policies and operations. Mr. Espinosa, the dynamic
full-time Chairman and President, has the experience, skills and capacity to
carry out this role successfully. He knows COFIDE very well, having been its
General Manager up to late last year. The Management Obmmittee, composed of
the General Manager, the five Division Managers and other senior COFIDE
executives, is another key element in COFIDE's decision making (Annex 3). At
present, it is empowered to approve all operations under S/. 20 million and
make recommendations for Board action on all larger proposals.
5.        Management and Staff.  Mr. van Oordt, who succeeded Mr. Espinosa
as COFIDE's General Manager, has a broad academic and practical background,
most recently having been Deputy Minister of Industry and Tourism. He appears
well qualified for his position. Under the General Manager, who is mainly
responsible for day-to-day operations, responsibilities are functionally
assigned to the Operations, Finance, Technical, International and 'Social Prop-
erty Divisions. (For COFIDE's organization chart, see Annex 14, COFIDE's
second-level management and professional staff are relatively yount- (average
age of about 33 years) and inexperienced, but generally dynamic, well qualified
and responsive to the leadership provided by a pragmatic and agressive top
management. The level of OOFIDE's remuneration is affected by the general wage
freeze presently enforced in Peru. However, OOFIDE is independent of the civil
service system and its good reputation should continue to be helpful in hiring
of well-qualified personnel. Staff turnover has been moderate thus far. The
number of 325 employees in 1975, including 155 professionals, appears somewhat
high in relation to the current level of operations, but should facilitate
the handling of a sharp increase in activities planned for the near future.
Professional staff is well diversified among the main categories of engineers
(63), financial analysts (42), economists (22), and lawyers (19). COFIDE's
professionalism is respected more and more by other Government agencies and
it is not unusual for COFIDE to receive requests for advice on specific
subjects.
6.        Internal Organization.  Triggered in part by discussions with Bank
project preparation missions, management made a series of organizational
improvements 3/.   These have tended to strengthen COFIDE's orRanization
and control, particularly in the Finance and Social Property Divisions, the
performance of which had been a matter of concern in the past. Despite some
1/  No representative of the privately owned "D" shares has yet been appointed.
2/ The Chairman of COFIDE is a member of various ministerial level committees;
and senior staff represent COFIDE on lower level committees and state enter-
prise boards.
3/ Most significant were, first, the concentration of responsibility for all
appraisals in the technical division, while limiting the operations and social
property divisions to promoting and supervising public, reformed private and
private, and social property proiects, respectively; and second, the creation
of a new international division for arranging financing from abroad.



APPENDIX C - Page 3
improvements, however, COFIDE's financial planning and internal reporting
systems are not yet fully geared to the increasing complexity of its opera-
tions. COFIDE is still a new, albeit fast-growing institution, and its
proposed future association with the Bank is expected to lead to further
institutional upgrading in these and other areas.
B.        Operational Policies and Procedures
7.        Operational policies of COFIDE, which had been contained in various
pieces of legislation, Board of Directors' decisions, and operational manuals,
provided relatively little operational guidance in several important areas.
With Bank assistance, COFIDE prepared a ccmprehensive Policy Statement (for a
summary,see Annex 5) focussing on its development banking functions; it was
approved by COFIDE's Board on August 13, 1975. Mainly due to the absence of
a clear definition of COFIDE's involvement in holding state companies, however,
neither specific policies on these activities nor completely satisfactory
financial policies 1/ could be included in the Policy Statement. Fhrthermore,
several of the new policies can only be introduced gradually over an extended
period of time.  While in its present form the Policy Statement cannot yet be
fully endorsed and would not be part of the legal framework of the prepared
loan, COFIDE is expected to move towards a solution of these issues in close
cooperation with the Bank in the future. A separate Statement of Operating
Policies and Procedures (Annex 4) would govern the operations of the Fund.
8.        Appraisal and Follow-up.   COFIDE appraises all projects submitted
to it for financing, putting emphasis on checking financial, technical and
marketing aspects; it may reject projects which are not considered to be
financially sound or able to service their debts, either from revenues or
assisted by Gbvernment subsidies, whenever called for. In several cases,
COFIDE has been able to cause projects to be redesigned or to be dropped on
technical grounds. Overall, appraisal reports are of good quality, except
that most do not yet contain any systematic economic evaluation. However,
this deficiency is expected to be corrected as a result of the proposed loan.
Also, there is a need to pay more attention to the project implementation
capacity of investment enterprises. On balance, the appraisal capacity of
COFIDE is sufficiently strong to entrust it with allocating the proceeds of
the proposed loan. COFIDE only recently introduced economic appraisal on
a trial basis. While the law of its creation did not specifically forsee that
COFIDE would concern itself with the economic justification of projects,
COFIDE's Policy Statement corrected this situation. The Government's desire
of COFIDE's applying economic tests as project investment-decision making
criteria was confirmed during negotiations.
9.        Internal economic rate of return (IERR) tests would be applied to
all Bank-financed Drojects as a minimuim, but are expected to be carried out for an
increasing number of other projects receiving COFIDE financing. During project
preparation, extensive discussions have been held with COFIDE on ways to adopt
economic efficiency tests based on the Bank's guidelines for IERR calculations on
/ Mainly due to the absence of a clear definition of COFIDE's involvement in
holding state companies neither specific policies on these activities nor fully
satisfactory financial policies could be included in the Policy Statement; thus,
it would not form part of the contractual arrangements under the proposed loan.



APPENDIX C - Page 4
DFC subprojects. A seminar on this subject was held in July 1976 to help COFIDE
apply IERR tests to a sample of Peruvian projects. Most COFIDE staff members have
good academic training and two staff members have participated in EDI-sponsored
project appraisal courses. In addition, several lectures on project evaluation
have been arranged recently by COFIDE for its technical staff. Thus, no great
difficulties in applying satisfactory economic evaluation procedures are expected.
Furthermore, the Bank would continue to assist COFIDE actively in improving its
economic evaluation methodology and capacity through participation in EDI courses and
evaluations of any future Bank projects involving the productive sector. as well as
through constructive comments on subloans proposed for Bank financing. This should
also be conducive to strengthening COFIDE's analysis of management, technical and
market aspects.
10.       With COFIDE giving increasing attention to follow-up, supervision
procedures (Annex 14) are generally satisfactory. During 1974-75, COFIDE's staff
visited, at least once, all the projects in operation and about 75% of projects under
construction.  Follow-up reports, while acceptable, could be improved further
by being oriented more towards recon.mending actions to be taken by client firms
or COFIDE, whenever called for.
11.       Promotion and Technical Assistance.  COFIDE has been devoting most
of its promotional and technical assistance activities, and financing of pre-
investment studies, to EPS creation. The focus of its promotional activities is
likely to be more dispersed in the future.
12.       Procurement and Disbursement.  COFIDE had been giving relatively
little attention to procurement decisions of most of its borrowers, although
purchases of all state enterprises must be based on competitive bidding. By
law, this provision does not apply to procurement by EPSs. As stated in its
Policy Statement, COFIDE now intends to gradually strengthen procurement
procedures, regardless of the type of enterprise involved, by requiring several
bids on all procurement and insisting on international procurement for large
projects. as feasible.  For all Bank-financed projects, as a minimum, COFIDE
wi'l satisfy itself that the goods and services to be purchased are suitable
for the investmernt project and reasonably priced.
13.       Disbursements for equipment, civil works and working capital financing
are reviewed by the technical staff and authorized by the head of the Operations
Division, after clearance by the loan or investment supervising officer.  Dis-
burserents for preinvestment studies are authorized by the manager of the
Technical Division.  Existing procedures are sufficient to ensure that funds -re
used for their intended purpose. Loan collection procedures are also satisfactory.
C.        Role of COFIDE
14.       COFIDE's Holding Company Activities.  One major reason for COFIDE's
creation in 1971 was to entrust the coordination of all state enterprise financ-
ing to one entity. Thus, according to the law of its creation, COFIDE was to
own the Government's shares in all state enterprises.  When this task proved
to be difficult for the new institution, a subsequent decree reversed this
positicn,proviiding that COFIDE would have neither management nor profit and loss



APPENDIX C - Page 5
responsibility for these enterprises, but only hold their shares in custody. 1/
These holdings do not form part of COFIDE's financial statements. Then,
legislation issued in August 1974 (Decree Law 20689) assigned to COFIDE full
ownership, profit and loss responsibility, and a "decisive vote" in the financir2
decisions of four major state manufacturing and tourism enterprises, namely,
SIDERPERU (steel), INDUPERU (general manufacturing), ENTURPERTJ (tourism) and
EPPAPERU (artesanal activity). These in turn, acting as second-tier holding
companies, have been assigned ownership of all state enterprises in the
industrial and tourism sectors. However, ministerial rulings defining COFTDE's
holding company responsibilities have yet to be issued, which casts serious
uncertainties on COFIDE's future institutional role. Legislation of March 1975,
intended to transfer ownership of the giant mining company CENTROMIN 2/to COFIDE
(using MINEROPERU as a second-tier holding company) may point to a possible
widening of COFIDE's holding company functions in the future.
15.       COFIDE's future holding company role 3/ raises several important issues.
First, the share transfer to COFIDE could be considered by the Peruvians as a
Government capital contribution, raising COFIDE's paid-in capital by S/.7.9 billioon
(it was SI. 5.05 billion on December 31, 1975) and, in effect, it would convert
COFIDE into a predominantly industrial conglomerate with some development
banking functions (para. 40). Since COFIDE is expected to continue to provide
and/or arrange the financing of the four holding companies and all other state
enterprises, appropriate financial policies and other arrangements would need
to be devised to avoid excessive concentration of financial risks for COFID.
Also, to provide sufficient financial control for COFIDE and adequate informa-
tion for its foreign lenders, periodic financial statements would need to be
prepared separately for COFIDE's banking activities, alone, and consolidated
with its subsidiaries. Second, COFIDE may ultimately only have a say in
financing decisions, with each ministry retaining responsibility for the "business"
decisions in all state enterprises within its sector. This line may be difficult
to draw and would require, as a minimum, a far earlier COFIDE involvement in their
project planning and decision making than has been the case thus far. Finally,
depending on degree of management and control responsibilities over its subsi,
diaries in the future, due consideration would need to be given to building up
a strong organization commensurate with both,i COFIDE's development banking and
holding company functions. Over time, COFIDE's association with the Bank under
1/ As of December 31, 1975, these comprised S/.45.2 billion in nominal share
capital of companies in the manufacturing and extractive industries, public
utilities, banking, tourism, services, and trading sectors.
2/ For which a US$40 million Bank loan has been approved.
3/ Since the lengthy and complex process of evaluating and transferring state
company shares to COFIDE (and to the second-tier holding companies, in parti-
cular) has not yet been concluded, these have not been included in COFIDE's
financial statements.



APPENDIX C - Page 6
the proposed loan should contribute towards resolving some of these issues,
whenever they arise.
16.       Relationship between COFIDE, CONAPS, and FONAPS. While COFIDE has
been assigned an important role in promoting EPSs, its financing decisions
(including preinvestment studies) are interdependent with the activities of
CONAPS and FONAPS. CONAPS has ultimate responsibility to execute national
SPS policies, having important powers of decision regarding eligibility of
projects for, and the constitution, merger and dissolution of, EPSs; FONAPS
is the sector's key financial organ concerned with providing transitory capital
financing. COFIDE continues to support SPS development through project lending,
financing and, occasionally, preparing preinvestment studies and giving technical
and administrative support to FONAPS.
17.       Up to now, FONAPS, in the absence of a technical staff of its own,
has relied exclusively on COFIDE's appraisals of project proposals. Thus,
while formally FONAPS' approval of transitory capital for, and COFIDE lending
to, the same EPS have been separate decisions, they have been fully coordinated
in practice.  This situation may change as FONAPS builds up I_ts own technical
staff in line with recent legislation. While there exists a possible area of
conflict in SPS financing decisions in the future, COFIDE is represented on the
administrative board of FONAPS, and COFIDE's insistence on sound development
banking criteria should continue to be crucial for rinancing decisions.
18.       Independence of COFIDE's decision making.  As indloated above,
there is substantial influence exercised by other Governmnet agencies on
COFIDE's decision-making. The following tries to assess the present degree
of CODFIDE's autonomy in two key areas, financial planning and investment
decision-making.
19.       As a state enterprise, COFIDE is subject to the public sector plan-
ning and control system. Thus, COFIDE's budget depends substantially on
projects included in the previously approved budgets of other state enterprises,
which OOFIDE is then expected to finance, and its own budget must be approved
by MEF in addition to COFIDE's Board.  While it has therefozre had clear ex ante
limitations in its financial planning amd investment decision-making, generally,
COFIDE has been exercising reasonable autonomly in rejecting, or at least modi-
fying, projects it considered not to be viable or to involve excessive risks.
However, the past offers little basis to judge COFIDE's future operational autonomy
because most state enterprises,thus far,have been allowed, in effect, to arrange
their own financing and there has been little lending to EPS that may involve
sensitive political issues.
20.       COFIDE is aware that some projects presented to it in the future may
be too advanced to be rejected or modified, COFIDE's only function being to
obtain adequate financing. To limit these cases to a mirnmum and to have a
better basis for its own financial planning, COFIDE needs to get involved at
an early stage in project preparation, particularly of state and social property
enterprises. This is being recognized increasingly by the Peruvian authorities.
Through the extension of a Bank loan to COFIDE, it is intended to further
broaden and strengthen COFIDE's role in the investment decision-making process.



APPENDIX C - Page 7
D.        Resources
21.       Up to 1972, COFIDE mainly relied on its equity for its own financing
operations. 1/ Since then, COFIDE gained access to additional resources and,
its borrowings increased rapidly from S/.182.9 million to S/. 11.1 billion as
of December 31, 1975. By that date, COFIDE had obtained S/. 19.6 billion, of
which 26.0% in equity, 7.1% through issues of bonds and certificates of deposits,
and 66.9% thirough foreign borrowings. So far, paid-in capital and retained
earnings have provided the bulk of COFIDE's local currency resources; the remainder
came from tax-exempt bonds, 2/ bonds issued by C0FIDE on the Government's behalf
to pay for the acquisition of expropriated enterprises whose activities are
reserved for the State, tax-free temporary deposits,mainly by productive enter-
prises for investments into high priority productive projects,and deposits from
Industrial Communities. As of December 31, 1975, COFIDE had not yet used the
Central Bank rediscounting facilities authorized for it. 3/ The foreign
resources comprised a wide variety of borrowings from commercial
banks 4/ and export credit agencies, and development credits from Canadian and
Dutch sources at concessional terms. While most foreign loans have been for
financing of specific projects, COFIDE also recently obtained several credit
lines for general project financing, mostly tied to specific countries for pro-
curement. As required by law, all of COFIDE's foreign borrowings have been
authorized by Supreme Decree.
22e       At September 30, 1975, COFIDE's undisbursed portions of contracted
foreign exchange operations amounted to US$117 million equivalent. Another
US$110 million equivalent was available under foreign credit lines. As to
local resources, the Government is expected to contribute a minimum of S/.1
billion over the next two years, as required by law.  5/  This would imply
that COFIDE will have to rely heavily on increasing its local resource mobili-
zation in addition to further borrowings from foreign sources.
1/  The following discussion does not include  operations carried out on behalf
of the Government.
2/  Private enterprises can invest, free of income tax, up to 85% of their
annual net income into "C" bonds.   Recently   the interest rate on most
of COFIDE's local borrowings was increased from 8% to 13%.
3/  However, in early 1976, COFIDE received a S1.1 billion credit from the
Central Bank, and is expected to make more use of this facility in the
future.
Vz At readjustable rates between 1-1/8% and 2% above LIBOR, and fixed rates
between 5% and 8-3/4% p.a., and terms ranging from 5 to 10 years, inciud-
ing 6 months to 4 years of grace.
5/ It is not yet clear whether the transfer of holding companies to COFIDE
would be considered as Government capital contribution.



APPENDIX C - Page 8
E.        Financial Position and Results
23.       Quality of Portfolio.  As of September 30, 1976, almost 70% of
OOFIDE's loan portfolio was still in the disbursement and/or grace period
stage (Annex 15). Only 12 out of 243 loans outstanding were in arrears over
three months, witl the total amount in arrears (including both principal
and interest) being only 2.5% of loan portfolio. To date,there have been
few write-offs; and 2 small loans of S/.34.5 million to companies
experiencing difficulties have been converted into equity investments and
limited reschedulings have taken place. On the other hand, there is a
substantial concentration of risk in COFIDETs portfolio. Its largest single
exposure (which includes loans, and guarantees on COFIDE's own account) in
PETROPERU, the state-owned petroleum company, was equivalent to 89.8% of
COFIDE's own equity, and its exposure in MINEROPERU to 35.1%. 1/  The auditors
declined to give an opinion on the adequacy of S/. 26.8 million in global
provisions for losses from equity investments at year-end 1975. To establish
the need for provisions and to have a basis for a provisions policy in the future,
COFIDE has asked for a detailed review of its loan, equity and guarantee portfolios
in connection with its 1975 audit. Its results and their implications for
COFIDE's financial policies will be discussed Drior to finalizing COFIDE's
1976 audit.
24.       As of September 30, 1976, COFIDE held 25 equity investments (Annex 12)
totalling 5/. 3.0 billion, equivalent to 41.3% of its own equity. The equity
portfolio consists mainly of minority holdings and does not include the four
state holding companies.  7Ahile it was generally of good quality, many of the
investee firms are still relatively new and a final judgement cannot be made
for some time to come. Although the market value of COFIDE's largest invest-
ment in Enpresas Olectricas Asociadas, Lima's power company, had dropped to
50% of the SE. 604 million acquisition cost, no significant losses are expected
from that account since OOFIDE has a sales option at cost.
25.       Financial Position.  Comparative balance sheets for 1971 to 1975 which
do not yet include the shares of the four state holding companies are given in
Annex 17,  During that period, COFIDE's loan and equity portfolio grew rapidly,
from S/o0.18 billion to S/.14.8 billion. However, with S/.16.5 billion in
total assets by year-end 1975, COFIDE is still relatively small considering the
important functions assigned to it. Financial statements for 1972 to 1974
(audited) and 1975 (unaudited) indicate an acceptable financial position.
Reflecting sharDly increasing foreign borrowings, mainly since 1973, COFIDE's
total debt-to-equity ratic  jumped from 0.51:1 in 1972 to a still rather low
2.9:1 in 1975. Except for 197k, when COFIDE incurred an unusually large amount
of short-term borrowings and bunching of maturities of long-term borrowing
occurred, the company has been maintaining an adequate, although somewhat tight,
liquidity posit-Lon.  The expected  growth in borrowings suggests the need
for greater emphasis on liquidity planning than had been necessary in the past.
/   In additions COFIDE has given guarantees on behalf of the Government for
loans to the state-owned companies PETROPERU, ELECTROPERTU and MINEROPERU,
equivalent to 496.0%, 77.8%, and 67.5%, respectively, of COFIDE's own equity.



26.       Income                 Expenses and Profitabilt.  Income statements for 1971
to 1975 (Annex 1b) show that the past ranid gocwth in revenues was accoimpanied^
by  a corresponding increase in expenses,  Wnhle admin.istrative expenses --
equivalent to 1.7% of totai assets in 1975 -- are somewhat high co :oared cco
similar development banks associated 7ith the Bank, they are not exces-s.ive
considering that they reflecf su'bstaflntial s+aff reserves for future operatioral
growth.
27.       Since inceptionD  hC7   Itas been modestly profiJtable, reflecting
the conpany's efforts to obtain revenue3 sufficient to demonstrate its
financial viability.  Wdth returns on equity ranging between 1.7% and 4h7%
during 1972-75, COFIDE s profitability, however. has been substantially
below inflation (of about 23% in 197W5)resitLt.ng iin an erosion of capital r
real terms.  Income has been affected by COFIDE's generally low local cur-
rency lending rates (Annex 16) and comnii,ssions on foreig-n exchange loansS, 1/
this  had only been ma'de possib>l 'y itS loa  cost capitail structure,  CnFIDE
should endeavor that its profits at least compensate for the erosion of
equity through inflation.  Thus, there is a clear need for COFIDE in the f<:sure to
charge local currency relerding rates re fect4y,g the opportunity cost of capital
in Peru.  This should also have a positive i'mpg ct. on COFIDE's capacity to mobilize
and allocate resources more efffectively.  in line with the pro visions of its
Policy Statement, COFIDE would be expected in the future to adjust its interest
structure whenever necessary to reflect changing capital market conditions and to
achieve a satisfactory return on its equity.
28.       Audit of Accounts,  Under Peru's public sector law, COFIDE is
subject to the control of the General Accounting Office which, in turn,
appoints annually independent auditing firms to audit COFIDE's accounts.  A111
three firms 2/ appointed thus far have been satisfactory.  While more continuity
in auditing would be desirable, the Bank should be prepared to accept the present
system of annual appointees by the Genral Accounting Office, provided that
the external auditors are acceptable to the Bank.
29.       Reflectirng in part the risks involved in development banking activities
and the short span of COFIDE's operations, all audit reports, thus far, have been
qualified regarding the carrying value of its loan and equity (1972, 1973, and 1975)
and loan portfolios (1974).  3/  On the other hand, the scope and quality of
the auditors' work on COFIDEIs accounts leaves substantial room  for improvement,
particularly regarding analysis of loan, equity investment and guarantee port-
folios, loss provisions, liquidity structure and orofitability.  During negotiations,
l/ Involving interest rates ranging from 8-14% on local currency loans, and
foreign exchange commission charges oP Oe2%-1.5%, both differentiated in
line with the Government's complex industrial development priority system,
but also taking into account ow nership and location of enterprise and pur-
pose of financing. Interest rates have recently been raised substantially
(see Appendix A).
2/   Arthur Anderson in 1972, Jaime Castro in 1973 and Bell & Co., in 1974 and 1975;
all are well established and among the largest Peruvian firms of auditors.
3/   The 1975 audit report has not yet been comqpleted.



APPENDIX C - Page 10
COFIDE should agree to employ the services of external auditors acceptable
to the Bank and to have them prepare annually full audit reports (following
the standard format for DFCs associated with the Bank) on (a) COFIDE only;
(b) COFIDE consolidated with its subsidiaries; 1/ and (c) the operations and
financial position of the Fund.
F.        Past Operations
30.       Despite its still relatively small size as the G(vernment's main
promotional arm (total assets of US$367 million equivalent as of year-end
1975) and short period of operations, COFIDE has made an important contribu-
tion to Peruvian productive sector development. Within less than five years,
COFIDE has approved 370 operations totalling SI. 59.6 billion (Annexes 8 and
9). However, guarantees given and letters of credit issued by GOFIDE on behalf
of the Government accounted for over one half (51%) of the total amounts since
inception; followed by COFIDE loans (31%) and guarantees (15%) on its own
account, and equity investments and transitory capital contributions (3%). A
review of all operations outstanding (Annex 11) shows a similar picture. State
and private enterprises account for almost one half of COFIDE's total port-
folio. However, the private enterprises include a number of firms which, while
organized according to private sector law, are in effect Government owned or
controlled. Preinvestment study financing, while equivalent to only 2% of total
loan amounts approved, accounted for over one third of the number of loans.
The large number and wide sectoral and geographic coverage of preinvestment
studies financed (Annex 13) points to COFIDE's promotional orientation. A major
part of these efforts have been directed towards identifying new industrial
opportunities to be exploited in setting up EPSs. Although most preinvestment
studies originate within COFIDE, it also finances some study proposals submitted
by state and other enterprises.
31.       In analyzing the direction of COFIDE's past operations (Annexes 8
to l0),due consideration has to be given to distinguishing between its own
operations (predominatly loans) and those performed on the Government's behalf.
The latter, accounting for more than half of total amounts approved, are
weighted heavily by a few very large guarantee operations. Since these are
less representative of _COFIDE's development banking activities,the following
analysis concentrates entirely on COFIDE's own lending (Annex lOY
32.       Loan recipients represent a wide range of sectors.  Manufacturing
industry (32%) received the most, followed by petroleum (23%), transportation
(14), communications (9%), energy (8%), and mining (7%). Reflecting the
relatively large size of loans to some public and established private companies
as well as the relatively large number of small loans related to promotional
efforts, the size distribution of loans approved is quite skewed: loans of up
to SV. 200 million account for nine,tenths of the number of loans approved, but
only 38% of the total loan amount. With COFIDE following a policy of providing
working capital financing only as a lender of last resort, almost nine tenths
of its lending has been for fixed capital requirements. COFIDE has been quite
1/once the holding company legislation has been implemented--even then, there
may be some delay in implementing consolidated audits, depending on the degree
and timing of COFIDE's holding company functions.



APPENDIX C - LPag 11
successful in reaching virtually all of Peiu's geographic regions.; with
less than one-third for the Lima-Callao  hrF&asq rl been no undue geo-
graphic concentration of lending.  T/ hre-caart.s of  iOFLDE's lending
had final maturities in excess of five, and mnast of    nerai.der bet.,w,c een
three and five years, indicating that C03FDE ha-s   eea.  -:..t respo:-d tD
the long-term, capital investment needs of i5_-s
G.        Economic Impact
33.       The preceding analysis of COFIDE's rast operat. -IRses gi'V,85 soMie
indication of its economic impact. Undoubtedly, given the magnitude and
diversity of its fast growing operations, COFITE's contribution to the develop-
ment of the Peruvian economy has been signficant.  Hoe7e"er, dae tc a la,c c.
comprehensive data, it is virtually impossib Le to quantia-.y t is contribution
and to precisely measure its benefits.  COF=E is bacomnig ig             -r awaTe
of the need to prepare and record systematically' fo' a l' it.s prc ,ect'sn
economic indicators like direct employment generat on. cost of fixedC irvest-
ment per job created and net foreign exchange earning3/savings   Ex cnt e
partial economic indicators for a small sandsle    p rojects   v4e          t'-w e
mission were auite acceptable. Another measur a         -.-
the contribution of COFIDE's own and COFIDE-arranged flinancing to the total
fixed new investment in the manufacturing state entesrrise sector0  It is
estimated to amount to as much as 23% in 1975.
H.        Projections
34.  Forecas't of Operations:  Dhe forecast of C27
larZgely based on the approved budgets of other state erte =,ses a:Qd
to  some extent, the translation of Pei-as indua'stria   p-  az
effective financial decisions and physical iTlerentt                t     -
for COFIDE's financial services increasing rapid' , tYhGe voluoe Of' 1`L Cpera-
tions is determined mainly by the availability of foreligr and loccl _reaoar'es
Obviously, regarding the type and amount of resources  OFIDE will be able to
secure, the institution's resource mobilization camab1l, tYr canrnot be seen
separately from the Governmentf's  finaincial strateKy- and      rnansacgemrenc oiL
Peru's budget.  This introduces substantial -uncertuainty  
tional forecasts.  Very tentative and highly optimiJstic prnoect' ns ,prepared
by COFIDE for the two biennia ending 1978 appear- in Anmexes 1720.  . ney arre
partly based on a review of the implementation or pmnvee.'             t.-D urander
way, and do not include the assets, liabilities a,:nd financ al -es   fc the
four state holding companies the shares of wbf ch are he       y D077i7E.
35.       COFIDE expects its lending operatiocns to rise rap-a l-  over -.'-he next
three years, with disbursements reaching St/. 18.-' bill.70n J1 t07.5  Co-mparci
with s/. 6.1 billion in 1975, and S/. 4.6 billion in l9.9L.  rTnanci3ng of
l/  COFIDE holds shares in a private development b       -ar'. <a7-o reglonna  bank.s
and has used these institutions for on-lendirg La a l--7f  d Z<7     z.-.  a -!--y
to improve the geographic coverage of its cperat -1
ex7erience and capacity in dealing with then are st.ll too lm,-ed and7 Lhe
spread may be insufficient to consider reo-           f & n.        >.
this mechanism.



APPENDIX C - Page 12
preinvestment studies would increase even more rapidly in relative terms,
while disbursements for equity investments would remain at an average
sS/.860 million annually. As a result, total loan portfolio would rise at
an average annual rate of 66% between 1975 and 1978, to S'. 57.2 billion;
and equity investments by a much lower 4% per annum, to S/. 3.2 billion.
While financing of state enterprise projects would dominate during the fore-
cast period and reach 59% of COFIDE's total loan portfolio by 1978, the share
of the SPS financing would increase even more rapidly from a small 6% portion
in 1975 to 15% in 1978.
36.       Resource Needs:  The fast growth expected by COFIDE would call for
a rapid widening of its borrowings and equity base. To achieve its ambitious
operational forecasts, COFIDE will need to mobilize over the next three years
EV. 43.8 billion net of repayments in new borrowings and S/. 2.4 billion in
equity. Given the present economic situation in Peru, these figures may
have to be reduced very substantially. COFIDJE projects to have the following
resources at its disposal: (i) foreign borrowings of S/. 34.5 billion
which would provide as much as 58.8% of the total needs; (ii) domestic
borrowings (Sf. 9.3 billion);  (iii) share capital increases (SI. 2.4 billion);
(iv) net collections (S/. 6.3 billion); and (v) other cash flow items (S/. 7.2
billion).
37.       Credits from commercial banks, suppliers and official export
agencies, all of which are for specific projects, would continue to be COFIDTE's
main source of foreign funds.  CIDA, the Canadian Development Institution, with
loans of US$35 million for project and prefeasibility studies financing, and
the IDB, with a -SS$15 million loan for the latter purpose, are expected to
provide long-term development resources.
38.       To support its local currency operations, COFIDE expects to make
increasing use of Central Bank borrowings, which are expected to
rise to 28% of COFID E's total borrowings at year-end 1978. Projected share
capital increases, mostly from direct budget allocations and exclusive of
holding company transfers, would be much more moderate in comparison;
internally generated funds are also likely to be relatively small, amounting
to less thman 10% of the projected total new resources during the next three
years. COFIDE exDects to continue to raise rather limited local resources
through tax-exempt and other special feature bonds and deposits.  The possibility
of raising local resource mobilization through issuing bonds in the market is
unclear, as it would depend on the Treasury's overall fund raising plans as
well as on the borirowing rates offered by COFIDE. In any case, given COFIDE's
increasingly important role in the economy, the Government can be expected to
support- the institution's resource mobilization efforts as may be necessary.
39.       Projected Financial Position and Results:  Throughout the forecast
period.,COFDDE1s total assets would grow at a high average rate of 62% per
an.nui- to reach S/. 69.6 billion in 1978. Since most of the increase would
be financed through borrowings, COFIDE's total debt/equity 1/ ratio would jump
from 2.9,l in 1975 to 8.6:1 in 1978. Although high, this ratio is still
acceptable given the expected continuing strong Government support for COFIDE.
1 /  t+i-ch includes the guarantee operations on COFIDEts own account.



APPENDIX C - Page 13
Liquidity and debt-service capacity would be acceptable. With growing
operations, COFIDE's profitability is expected to improve, largely due to
a sharp drop in administrative expenses from 1.7% of average total assets
in 1975 to 0.6% in 1978. Profits after provisions 1/ would reach 4.6% on
average equity in 1978; they would mostly be retained to strengthen reserves.
The projected level of profitability is unlikely to fully compensate for the
erosion of COFImEts net worth through inflation.  However, COFIDE's financial
condition overall is likely to develop satisfactorily throughout the forecast
period.
40.       Possible Effects of Holding Company Transfer:  The operational
procedures discussed above do not contemplate the possible effects on COFIDE's
financial status resulting from its  holding company role, given the present
uncertainties about its implementation.  Highly tentative and optimistic
projections prepared by COFIDE on the effects through 1984 of the transfer of
the four holding companies STDERPERU, INDUPERU, ENTURPERU and EPPAPERU indicate
a possible strengthening of COFIDE's consolidated financial position. Incre-
mental income is expected to be positive throughout the forecast period,
rising from S/. 108 million in 1976 to S/. 804 million in 19840 The net cash
flow effects of the transfers would be negative during the first three years
(requiring some interim financing),but strongly positive thereafter, and COFIDE's
total assets would gradually increase by as much as S/.37 billion. Given the
low indebtedness of the holding companies, COFIDE's combined 2/ debt/equity
ratio  would drop to between 2.01:1 and 3.01:1 in 1976-78, compared with 6.4:l
to 8.6:1 for COFIDE's development banking operations only. However, when
analysing the former ratios, which may appear low, the yardsticks for an indus-
trial conglomerate may be more appropriate than those for a development bank.
Thus, it is not clear whether the transfer of holding company ownership would
increase COFIDE's consolidated borrowing capacity in the long run, as hoped for by
somePeruvians. There would also be important changes in COFIDE's organization and
administrative structure, the effects of which have not been considered in COFIME's
projections.
41.       There are two other important aspects of the anticipated impact of
COFIDE's holding company role. First, the sectoral composition of COFIDE's port-
folio would shift towards steel and other basic industries,such as cement, chemicals,
paper and metal working, with almnst one-half of the total assets to be transferred
to OOFIDE being from SIDERPERU (steel), and another third fron INDUPERU (various
basic industries). Second, because of the low profitability of SIDJERPERU (its
expected return on equity is below 1% through 1984), and expected losses of ENTUR-
PERU through 1980, the bulk (about 80%) of OOFIE's additional revenues from the
holding companies would come from INDUPERU alone, with expected returns on equity
between 4% to 8% during 1976-84.
1/ Their adequacy may have to be reviewed depending on the results of the
ongoing portfolio review.
2/  Available information       does not permit full consolidation of COFIDE's
financial statements with those of the holding companies.
LCPDF
November 1976



1BRD- 11467
80 < 72 j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARY 1975
.  *t  >                                            \0  ~~~~~~~~BRAZIL
.    <.            C OLOM BI A
Gulf of                                         >
Gua.7 quil                                 A                                                                                              . 
*Tumbes                 /                                                        Iquitose                    4b<>a    
TUMBE                                                                                                                        E ' ! !
P I U R A                         2                             <\
I   f   Y    troo,.  *      \ ~Moyobambrza /         
LAMkAYEQUEnS Crcrpys) 
E) t ~~~M A R T I N                                               \                      bB R A Z I l
L A  L 1BPER TA D)                %>                                                                          
Trujilllo         r     
* J H U A N U C O  _/~
P A  C IF /C                           %                      H,anuc2Rr%    v
r,  rA-Yv  <_) ~~PA5 CO                        LORET ro/ 
R  /   \   ~~cerro de Pasco          _\X>
O C E A N                                                                                                                                     .5 ........+ 
L I M  A                       
<q   J U N I NJ                              
-12'                                             Callao (DO        "I _\       Hunay 0- - \                      il  MADRE         DE    D105S                 12-
P       E      R      U                                                  '                                                          Maldonado 
Y-      Huancaveelica   \           
* Capital of Departmnent                                  ,-_/ HUANCA-r` yac uchot 
0.   National Capilal                                                      'p Cuzco
-- Depatmentol Boundaries                                                                        "A           euc           {     
-  -lternation Boundaries                                         t        >                      Abencay      ~            J(
Rivers                                                      Ica Xy_                  \APURIMAC   ))9
O   50      100      150      200                          I CA   tC       C     O ){vr                                   PuNO            , 
0,o       100   , 200   , 300\\                                                                rY<>X                  
Kilometers                                                    _Jt>                                            
._   f                     ~~~~~~~~~Atlantic                           J         .\yJ kZJ 
PANAMA      OMBA                   FR/ ( GUIcanA-6                                                    A R EQDU IPA                      Punoo   7r/Zcaca        1
ECUADORo ! 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arequipa   ,
B R A Z I L                                                                                                   ,tC\> 
PERU                                                                                                                      c,   us e5 g Li *Mrga 
<  t.>                                                                           /> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TA C N.A
Plcfe  A. BOLIVIA /van 
Oean CHI LEw     MPARAGUAY                                                               -1,- bon,ri hw  nt h, Rd o
ARGENTINib  {                                     g           Wtdl nf fjl8cranb b              7|2                       H I L E 



