CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1358-PE
LOAi AGREEMENT
(COFIDE Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COePORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
Dated January 28, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 28, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a development finance corporation established and
operating under the laws of the Republic of Peru.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the
Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan.
(c) "Social Property Enterprise" means an Investment Enter-
prise which is an empresa de propiedad social in accordance with
Decreto-Ley No. 20598 of the Guarantor dated April 30, 1974.


﻿-3-
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development proj-
ect to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a sub-loan.
(e) "Local currency" and "sol" mean the currency of the
Guarantor.
(f) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the cur-
rency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower approved
by Decreto Supremo No. 110-71-EF of the Guarantor dated August 24,
1971, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
()  "Development 'und" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
(i) "Statement of Policy" means the Developmert Fund's
statement of lending and investment policies approved by the
Board of Directors on December 7, 1976.
(j) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned
or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or more
subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or more of
its subsidiaries.
(k) "Financial subsidiary" means any subsidiary which, in the
judgement of the Bank, is engaged in promotional, financial or
technical activities similar or complementary to the operations of
the Borrower.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts expended by the Borrower for an
Investment Project or, if the Bank shall so agree, for amounts to
be expended by the Borrower for an Investment Project, to finance:
(i) the reasonable i reign currency cos. of goods and
services required under a sub-loan for the
Investment Project in respect of which the
withdrawal is requested, or
(ii) the equivalent of fifty per cent (50%) (represent-
ing the estimated foreign exchange component) of
the reasonable local currency cost of goods and
services required under a sub-loan for the Investment
Project other than an Investment Project for tourism
development or industrial construction in respect of
which the withdrawal is requested, or
(iii) the equivalent of thirty-five per cent (35%) (repre-
senting the estimated foreign exchange component)
of the reasonable local currency cost of goods and
services required under a sub-loan for the Investment
Project for tourism development or industrial construE n


﻿0                          -5-
in respect of which the withdrawal is requested
and of civil wo,rks required under a sub-loan for
the Investment Project in respect of which the
withdrawal is requested, or such percentage as
shall have been established, to the satisfaction
of the Bank to correspond to the foreign exchange
component of such goods and civil works;
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect
of a sub-loan unless (1) the sub-loan shall have been approved
by the Bank, or (2) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan
for which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the
Loan Account, or (3) the sub-loan shall be for an Investment
Project to be carried out by a Social Property Enterprise and the
amount of such Gub-loan, when added to any other amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for
Investment Projects to be carried out by Social Property Enterprises,
shall not exceed in the aggregate $10,500,000 equivalent, or (4)
the sub-loan shall be for an Investment Project to be carried out
by an Investment Enterprise and the amount of such sub-loan, when
added to any other amounts financed or proposed to be financed out
of the Loan and lent to the Investment Enterprise which shall carry
out such Investment Project, shall not exceed $4,000,000 equivalent.
The foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time
as determined by the Bank.


﻿-6-
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise other
than a Social Property Enterprise in an amount to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of
$500,000 equivalent, the foregoing amount being subject to change
from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures
made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject
to the Bank's approval, if such expenditures shall have been made
before the date of this Agreement or more than ninety days prior
to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of
such sub-loan the application and information required by Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request and
information required by Section 2.03 (b).
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise
and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan; and (iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿7-
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of such free-limit
sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before June 30, 1,979.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy-hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.


﻿-8                                    0
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate of
the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans which have been
approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account under
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and (ii) take into account any
cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions and
any repayments made by the Borrower under Section 2.09 of this
Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made
on January 1 and July 1 in each year. Such amendments of said
Schedule 1 shall include amendments to the table of premiums on
prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
shall provide for a period of grace of not more than 3 years, and,
unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall
not extend beyond 15 years from the date of approval by the Bank
of such sub-loan, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan, of
authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal
semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the Bor-
rower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.


﻿-9-
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or any part
thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed
of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly notify
the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following interest
payment date, together with the premiums specified in Schedule 1
to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08
(a) of this Agreement, the amount withdywn from the Loan Account
in respect of such sub-loan or part thereof and not theretofore
repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or ma-
turities of the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources in
Peru as will contribute to the economic and social development of
the country. The Project consists in the financing of Investment
Projects through sub-loans to Investment Enterprises in Peru, in
furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards
and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in
accordance with the Statutes and Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) open and maintain a separate account (the Development
Fund) and pay into it (i) the proceeds of the Loan, (ii) out of
its own resources at least the equivalent in local currency to
fifty per cent (50%) of the proceeds of the Loan, and (iii) any
funds accruing from the carrying out of the Project;
(b) use the proceeds of the Loan exclusively for carrying
out the Project; and
(c) use the funds referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) and (iii)
hereof exclusively for servicing its financial obligations under
this Agreement; provided, however, that if any such funds are not
needed for said purpose, the Borrower may use them as follows:


﻿(i) to pay the cost of the training and technical
assistance specified in Section 3.08 of this
Agreement;
(ii) to make loans in accordance with the Statement
of Policy;
(iii) to pay itself a service fee not exceeding 1 1/2%
per annum of the aggregate principal amount of the
sub-loans outstanding from time to time; and
(iv) to pay itself interest at a reasonable rate on the
amounts paid into the Development Fund by the
Borrower as required by paragraph (a) (ii) above.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) charge interest on the
outstanding principal amount of sub-loans at a rate of not less than
11% per annum; and (b) review the adequacy of such interest rate as
part of the review referred to in Section 4.07 of this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan will be made on terms
whereby the Borrcwer shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate rec-
ords; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to be financed


﻿- 12 -
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment
Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv)
require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound busi-
ness practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing,
such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other hazards in-
cident to the acquisition, transportation& and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its ob-
ligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the in-
terests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with its obli-
gations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project.


﻿- 13 -
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the Develop-
ment Fund, the Investment Enterprises, the .Investment Projects,
and the sub-loans.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under agreements under which funds have been lent or other-
wise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its
agencies or others for relending, investment or management. The
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which would
have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiv-
ing any material provision of, any such agreement,
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, as part of the appraisal of
an Investment Project, calculate the internal economic rate of
return thereof; such calculation to be made in accordance with the
guidelines approved by the Borrower on December 10, 1976, as amended
from time to time to the satisfaction of the Bank. The Borrower
shall gradually apply economic evaluation methods to other proj-
ects financed by the Borrower.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall (a) train such of its staff
as shall be appropriate for purposes of carrying out its operations;
(b) train staff of agencies of the Guarantor and financial institu-
tions concerned with appraisal of projects in matters related to such
appraisal, and (c) provide technical assistance in (i) the operation
and management of Social Property Enterprises to agencies of the
Guarantor and to any institutions responsible for assisting such
enterprises in their operation and management; and (ii) such fields
and to such institutions as shall be agreed from time to time between
. the Bank and the Borrower.


﻿- 114-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause each of its sub-
sidiaries to observe and perform the obligations of the Borrower
hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall or can
be applicable thereto, as though such obligations were binding
upon such subsidiary.


﻿-15 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Proj-
ect (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements), including the accounts and finan-
cial statements of its subsidiaries and of the Development Fund,
for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of the
Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.


﻿-16                                      0
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets of
the Borrower or any financial subsidiary as security for any debt, such
lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall
be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any financial subsid-
iary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing pro-
visions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien cre-
ated on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as se-
curity for the payment of the purchase price of such pr.perty;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/
equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of this
Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the
Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio
within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.


﻿*                                      - 17-
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any financial subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring
of such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
financial subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be
greater than five times the consolidated capital and surplus of
the Borrower and all its financial subsidiaries. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any
financial subsidiary;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date
and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding
pursuant to such loan contract or agreement, and (ii) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that the
guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of soles debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of
servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its financial
subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and
financial subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to
any financial subsidiary or by any financial subsidiary to the
Borrower or to any other financial subsidiary; and


﻿-8- 08
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
financial subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and
financial subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
as shall represent equity interests of the Borrower in any
financial subsidiary or of any financial subsidiary in the Borrower
or any other financial subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower undertakes: (a) that the rates
of interest and commitment charges on its lending operations will
be established taking into account the situation on the capital
market of Peru and will be such as to (i) recover the cost to the
Borrower of the funds lent by it and the Borrower's operating costs,
and (ii) provide the Borrower with a reasonable profit; and
(b) not later than a year after the date of this Agreement
and thereafter at any time the Guarantor or the Bank may request,
review with the Guarantor and the Bank the adequacy of such rates
of interest taking into account the Guarantor's policy in this
respect, inflation trends and future inflation prospects in Peru
and abroad with a view to the gradual introduction of positive
real interest rates in the lending operations of the Borrower.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including soles) used in its lending and borrowing
operations.


﻿-19 -
Section 4.09. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower, its subsidiaries and the
Development Fund, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Borrower its subsidiaries and the Development Fund.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and. any relevant documents.


﻿- 20                                      0
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual in-
struments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Statutes which will
materially and adversely affect the financial condition or opera-
tions of the Borrower;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Statement of Policy
without the Bank's consent;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been cre-
ated or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the Borrower's
carrying out of the Project.


﻿-21 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 or any event
specified in paragraph (e) thereof shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 22                                       0
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
the Development Fund has been established.
Section 6.02. The date of March 28, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Corporaci6n Financiera de Desarrollo
Avda. Inca Garcilaso de la Vega 1456
Casilla Postal 10377
Cable address:                Telex:
COFIDE                        20162 PE
Lima Peru                     25356 PE


﻿- 24-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
By Is! Oscar Espinosa
Authorized Representative
By Is/ Winston Temple
Authorized Representative


﻿-25 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
July 1, 1978                                         75,000
January 1, 1979                                     125,000
July 1, 1979                                        175,000
January 1, 1980                                     350,000
July 1, 1980                                        500,000
January 1, 1981                                     700,000
July 1, 1981                                        900,000
January 1, 1982                                   1,200,000
July 1, 1982                                      1,300,000
January 1, 1983                                   i,400,ooo
July 1, 1983                                      1,600,0o0
January 1, 1984                                   1,800,000
July 1, 1984                                      1,800,000
January 1, 1985                                   1,900,000
*       July 1, 1985                                      2,000,000
January 1, 1986                                   2,000,000
July 1, 1986                                      2,000,000
January 1, 1987                                   2,000,000
July 1, 1987                                      1,975,000
January 1, 1988                                   1,700,000
uly 1, 1988                                      1,550,000
January 1, 1989                                   1,400,ooo
July 1, 1989                                      1,200,000
January 1, 1990                                   1,150,000
July 1, 1990                                      1,150,000
January 1, 1991                                   1,000,000
July 1, 1991                                        800,000
January 1, 1992                                     500,000
July 1, 1992                                        350,000
January 1, 1993                                     200,000
July 1, 1993                                        125,000
January 1, 1994                                     75,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
.    to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 26-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                        1.55%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                         3.05%
More than six years but not
more then eleven years
before maturity                         5.65%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                         7.70%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                         8.70%


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or in sub-
stitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03 Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the
Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by the
date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the Loan
Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received


﻿- 28 -
by the Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having
been so received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the
Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn
from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have received
notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with re-
spect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice to the
Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or
portion of the Loan.


