D_nt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY
Rbpwb   12239
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IDUSTRIAL SECTOR POLICY LOAN
(LOAN 3087-ME)
AUGUST 10, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12239
Type: PCR
Country Operations I and Environment Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recpients only in de performane of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENC;Y INT - PESO (MEXS)
Mexico has a managed exchange rate with a pre-announced devaluation of a maximum
of 40 centavos daily. On Ocober 1, 1992, the exchange rate was US$1.00 =
MEX$3,103.6.
ESCAL YAR
January 1 - December 31
EDP            Export Development Policy
ESW            Economic and Sector Work
EQ             Export Quota
GATT           General Agreement for Trade and Tariffs
GD)P           Gross Domestic Product
GOM            Govemment of Mexico
iMP            International Monetary Fund
ISPL           Industial Sector Policy Loan
NAFIN          Nacional Fnanciea, S .N.C.
NAFTA          North American Free Trade Agreement
PACTO          Economic Solidarity Pact
PECE           Stabilization and Growth Pact
QR             Quantitative Restriction
SDR            Special Drawing Right
SECOFI         Ministry of Trade and Industia Development
TPL            Trade Policy Loan



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wahington, D.C. 2049
U.SA
Office of DlrOetor Gneral
Operation. Evaluation
August 10, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECIORS AND THE PRES1DENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Mexico -
Industrial Sector Policy Loan (Loan 3a87ME)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Mexico - Industrial Sector Policy Loan (Loan
3087-ME) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part H of the
report contributed by the Borrower.
ISPL formed part of a comprehensive and consistent program of Bank support to the
Mexican Government's objectives of stabilizing the economy and resuming growth. This suceof
adjustment project aimed at modernizing and deregulating the industrial sector.
Many of the policy measures proposed under the project were implemented in advance of
agreed schedules and exceeded targets. Many second tranche release conditions were left open and
made contingent on the outcome of studies. This allowed for time to define and build political
consensus on the scope and timing of the actions to be taken.
The sharp rise in private sector investment and the resumption of growth during the project
period suggest that the goal of establishing a framework conducive to private sector investment was
achieved. A critical factor in the successful design and implementation of the project was the close
collaboration and fundamental agreement on the major direction of reform between the Bank and
successive Governments.
Overall, the project is rated as satisfactory and its sustainability as likely. The institutional
development achievements are rated substantial
The PCR is generally of good quality. However, it does not adequately cover the impact
of some of the specific measures supported under the project, such as the impact on technological
change.
An audit is planned for this operation.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kdpp
Attachment
Ihis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their -:: dutiea. Us
contents may not otherwse be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorization.



FOR OMICIL USE ONLY
aLDAN NO. 3087-MM
PREFACE  .........                             .......................................... i
EVALUATIONSUMMAWRY                                     .....                               ....... ii
PARTI PROJECTREVJEWFROM THEBAINK'SPERSPECTVB  ........................  I
Ptoject Idenit  ................................ I
Backstound             ............................................ 1
ProjtObjectives andDeacziption              .........................................  3
PtojectDeopad Organization  .                .................... ................... 4
P    je    n     i    ................................................ 7
Result             ...................................................  7
hIvacueco n nic Developnet  ......................................                    I  8
Secr Pefwmance  .............................................                         . 9
Ev:         of Refrm  and RemningAgend  .................................. 10
Ad.cohimsofOvweaUObjeWives  .................................... 10
otivasecoK  ............................................. 10
uSotinahtyofdeRefnamPscesw  ........................................ 12
Porfoznano ofthe3Bnnk ...............................................  12
PrfomnzlmnoftheBotrrowr                     ............................................ 13
Lemons Leaned  ................................................ .. 13
PART U PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWMERSPERS PECIE .................... 16
PART m  STATISTCAL INFORMATION  ...........                                 .     ...... ...        . 24
TableIRetdBankLo                      .................................................. 24
Table2PotrjTmnabl ............ . .... 24
Tabb 3 LamE*baw"                                   .. .5.... a
TaWb4Pmajec aCos_and Fins cing.                          .       ...............              ..... 25
Table5UsoffBankRauro.... .. ...............                                                           ........ 2S
ANNEBS
Annex I  A. LetterofIndustuial Poicy  ...7....................................... 2
B. Poblicya Mtx ..................................................                          31
Annex h  Pj                      Action Pogm     ................................... 44
Annex MIMexico:Economiclndicators .......................................... 49
Annex IV SftuctureofImnportTari           ........................................... 52
Annex V  Flow of Direc Foreign nwestment ..........               . ........................... S3
Anmex VI StuctUr ofManuActuiviyA. .i.i                       .     ................ 54
AnexVlStuctute ofMwidcn Expots                             .............................................. S5
ATrACHMENT1Commentsonde PCRbytdeExport-hWport BanrofJ                     ...n...... 56
AT2ACHMENT2 uontan th PCR by                      DdP  .....t.F..   ......................... S9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfoma.nce
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclod without World Bank authorization.



-i-
INDUISTRLAL SEC        POLCYl=
LOAN NO. 3087-ME
P2Qfl  COMPlLONREPORT
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for fte Industial Sector Policy
Loan to Mexico (Loan 3087-ME) in an amount equivalent to US$500 million approved on
June 13, 1989. It was closed on June 30, 1991, one year behind schedule. The last
disbursenueat was made on June 26, 1991. An undisbursed balance of US$2,490,429.05 was
canceled effective November 6, 1991.
The PCR was prepared by the Mexico Country Opeaons Division (LA2Cl) in
the Ian Amerca and the Caribbean Regional Office (Prfc, Evaluation Summary, Parts I
and I), and by the Guarantor's Ministies of Trade and Industrial Development and of
Labor and submitted by the Borower (Part H). The cofinanciers, the Export-Import Bank of
Japan and the IMP, provided comments (Attachments 1 and 2).
Preparation of this PCR was started in June 1992 and is based, inter-aia, on the
Report and Recommendations of the President, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements;
supervision reports; corespondence between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank
memoranda and industrial sector work performed by LA2C1.



- ii -
M.Q
UIBIL WERCPELCY LAN
LAN NO. 387-ME
PROTI COPlQ  REPI
EVALUATO SUMMARY
1.        Qives.ix  The industral Sector Policy Lom  (ISPL) was prepared at a crtical
time for Mexico. in 1988, faced with a deteriorating economy, continued weakness in oil
prices and the rise in inional interest rates, the incoming Mexican administration was
ready to take extraordinary measures, which meant extension of its stabilization program and
undertaing of further comprehensive and deep policy reforms to restructure the economy.
Upon the Government of Mexico's request, the Bank suggested a weighty assistance package
to support the govemment's policy initiatives and to achieve a rapid transfer of resources.
Major areas of reform were identified and a comprehensive set of three sector adjustment
loans was idendfied and prepared in a short time. (paras. 1-8)
2.        The ISPL was part of three sector adjustment loans of US$500 million each,
presented to the Board simultaneously in June 1989, to support the Government of Mexico's
objectives of stabilizing the economy and resuming growth. The other two loans supported
public enteir  and financial sector reforms. The three loans together provided a
comprehensive reform package combining macroeconomic policies with micro adjustments in
key areas, and followed up on earlier sector adjustnent loans supporting trade reforms and
industrial sector zestructuring. The focus of the ISPL was to support a program of reforms
to modernize the industrial sector by removing market distortions and creating an appropriate
administrative and regulatory environment to enable enterprises to be internationally
competitive. The objective of the program was to stimulate private sector investment and
growth. (pa. 14)
3.        Implementation Experience. Project implementation went well. The ISPL was
signed two days after Board approval and became effective the following month. The second
tranche was released in February 1990, i.e., two and a half months behind schedule. The
target date of end November 1989 turned out to be too ambitious in light of the political
sensitivity of some of the changes and the time required to develop action plans. The loan
closed one year behind schedule, on June 30, 1991, in response to the request by
Government for more time to disburse the US$3.0 technical assistance component. After
closing of the loan, the remaining balance of US$2.5 million was canceled from the technical
assistance category. (pam. 21)



4.        Many of the measures required prior to second tanche releas, i.e., preparadon
of action progrms, or implementation of exsting ones, concerning technology, dirt
foreign investment, trade, idustrial secw  progams and ae  simplification, were
taken in advance of the agreed schedue. Moreover, the actions taken often exceeded the
established target. In serl areas, second tranche release was conditidonal on t'he
prept  of  es for elaboration of action plans. Only one study was finalized in time
for review of tranche r.lease, but preliminay findings of the other studies were used by the
Government to provide action plans satisfactory to the Bank. (para. 25)
s.        Reus, Itis difficult to separate the effects of the meaur  supported by the
ISPL from the effects of other policy changes implemented at the same time. Nonetheless
the evidence suggests that the measures supported by the loan contrbuted to a positive
change in the business climate, to increased efficiency and to the removal of obstacles to
competitive market forces. There was a remarkable improvement in economic stability
(inflation dropped from tree digit levels in 1987 to under 20% by 1991). The sbarp
increase in private investment (more than 12% per year over 1989-91) and the resumption of
growth (GDP grew by 3.7% over 1989-91) suggest that the goal of establishing a framework
conducive to private sector investment was achieved. (paras. 27-32, Annexes m-V)
6.        Since 1987 manufacturing output has shown steady gowth after the yearly
fluctations which marked the 1980-86 period. The major fctor underlying the recorded
growth was the expandon of exports of manufictures, which played an important role in
offsetting the decline in earnings from petroleum exports. (Annex VII) Data on actual
expenditures for indusial investment suggest major efforts at modernizaton of the sector to
increase efficiency and competitiveness but only marginaly to increase capacity. The data
on foreign investment suggest that numerous (arge) projects, involving substantial expansion
of output capacity, are now under constructon or in the pipeline. (pans. 33-36)
7.        Sustaimkin  Ihe main risk that had been identified was possible political
resistance to carrying out the reforms at the speed envisaged. However, a momentum was
built up early in the current administration propeling the Govemment to move quickly and
decisively in announcing policy and implementig reforms. Moreover, executive decisions
have been followed up with legal amendments and new legisation to reinforce the post-
reform policy framework. The GOM has carried the progrm further forward and has
consolidated it with completion of the negotiations for NAPTA. The various steps which
have been taken to tie Mexico into the world trading system provide reassurance that reversal
is highly unliklly as it would be very expensive. (pam. 45)
8.        Lessons  1         The widespread coincidence of views of the GOM and the
Bank on economic policy issues and the extraordinarily high quality of the Bank's
countewarts created "ideal" conditions for the elaboraton of the Bank's 1989 assistance
package. It might be dangerous to genealize that experience for applications to ote
counties, but an important lesson is to realize the high returns that can be gained from the
time and resources spent to build up a meaningful and extensive dialogue with key decision-



- iv -
makers an the economic policy issues and to maintain an open and frequent channel of
communications. Another key aspect of the relationhip was tle close contact that was
estblished between the teams of economists on the Mexican and he Bank side with some of
the Mexican economists providing important inputs in the Bank analysis and sector work, and
the Bank contributing to the ficing of the Mexican studies under technical assistance
components of existing loans.
9.        The fruitful dialogue on economic policy which had been developed between the
Bank and the Guarantor had already resulted in several large adjustment opetions referred
to in paragraph 2. The biannual Country Strategy Implemcntation Review (CSIR) process,
initited in 1985, provided an important vehicle for continuing discussion on broadening of
the ESW program, preparation of studi¢s wnth Mexican techricians and examination of
firther policy areas where reform was required. The Bank's resident representative's office
in Mexico had been established and permitted virtually daily contacts with key policy
makers. Due in great part to the close intellectual interchange between key policy makers
and Bank Mnagement and staff on economic and sector changes in policies, there was a
general agreement as to the principal focws of the required measure which the Bank could
support, with the need only to elaborate on some details. (paas. 51-52w)
10.       The Bank's assistance package was prepared in a period of crisis and reform,
coupled with changes in administrations. A second important lesson is the need to bring
subtleness and imagination to such a dynamic situation in order to adapt to expediencies.
The advantages to be gained were demonstrated by the role played by a number of the
studies which were included in loan conditionality as a prelude to formulating action
programs. In some cases, studies were a vehicle for consensus building among the Mexican
authiorites on the details such as timing and scope of actions, while seeing eye to eye on the
policy changes that needed to be pursued. In other cases, in sensitive areas, studies were
used as a means to guard confidentiality . When policy decisions were actually taken, the
actual measures adopted often went beyond the commitments made dunng loan negotiations.
(pam. 55)
11.       A third lesson, also drawn from the experience with the studies, suggests the
need to be more selective in specifying these measures as part of the conditionality for
tranche release for adjustment loans due mainly to the short period of time between loan
approval and the expected date of tranche release. Finally, allowing for expediencies as
mentioned above and under the assumption that the studies selectod are in key policy areas,
broader dissemination of the results of studies among Government agencies would also
contribute to achieving the basic objectives of undertaking these analyses. The interchange of
ideas could be exected to influence positvely the design of furiher studies and of the policy
reforms in the interrelated areas. (paras. 56-57)



AIEXICZQ
ENDUSTIIL SECTDR PQICX LOAN
LOA  NO. 307-ME
1RQImXEnQNR
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANT'S PFRSPECT
edentax
Name      :   Industrial Sector Policy Loan
Loan No. :    3087-ME
RVP Unit :   LAC Region
Country   :   Mexico
Sector         Industry
Type Loan:    Sector Adjustment
Backgrond
1.        The  ies exeienced by the Mexican economy in the first half of the 1980s
were among the most severe that the country had experienced in its history. Beginning with
the end of World War II through the mid-1970s, the economy enjoyed a strong GDP growth
rate exceeding 6% per annum on average, accompanied by exchange rate, monetary and
fiscal stabilty. Conserative monetary and fiscal policies, however, were abandoned after
1972 leading to double digit inflation and a series of peso devaluations. A short period,
1976-1978, involving some stabilizadon efforts was followed by highly expansionist policies,
generated by euphoric expectations for growing oil income and centering around the public
sctor as the engine of grwvth. GDP expanded by an annual average of 8% from 1979
through 1982 but this growth was unsustainable: it was characterized by soaring fiscal and
balance of payments deficits, accelerated inflation and dependence upon massive fori
borrowing and oil revenues.
2I        The debt cnrsis in mid-1982, triggered by the fall in oil prices and rising interest
rates, forced the new admiistation, which took office at the end of that year, to adopt a
stringent stabilization program and to seek external debt relief through the postponement of
debt servicing. In 1983, the budgetary deficit was sharply reduced and the trade deficit was
changed to a substantial surplus but at the cost of a 4% decline in GDP. Some recovery in
output was recorded in 1984 and early 1985 and the external accounts continued to record
surpluses. While the public sectr primary deficit also shifted to surplus, inflation rates



-2-
continued at relatively high levels. A modest attempt was made to liberaliz the external
sector while some progress was achieved in divesting mainly small public enterpnses.
3.       In mid-1985, the economy once more experienced a severe extenal shock as oil
prices, which had hardened somewhat after the declines in 1981-1982 from historic high real
levels, again began to tumble with serious repercussions on the public sector deficit as well
as on the trade balance. A destructive earthquake in September 1985 inflicted furher
damage an the economy. In 1987 one of the principal features of the stabilization program
was introduced In the form of an agreement (the PACTO) between the Government, labor,
faming and buiness rpresentatives. n return for fiscal and monetary restraint, the
freezing of public sector pnces and taiffs, and the freezng the nominal exchange rate vis-a-
vis the dollar, wages and private tor prices also were frozen.
4.        The economic difficulties confronting the authorities were primarily the result of
past economic policies dominated by an orientation toward the internal market, the large role
for the State and a highly reguated business environment, and of tht mismanagement of the
economic windall provided by the discovery of substantial hydrocarbon resources in the
1970s at preciey the moment when the prices of those resources exwienced a sharp rise in
nterntional markets.
3.        Following the change in adminion at the end of 1982, the Bank and
Mexican policy makers iniated a sies of policy dialogues in onnecidon wnth the Export
Development Policy Loan (EDP 1) approved in June 1983 as the Bank sought to provide
urgently needed foreign exchange resource to assist the stabiization efrt and to help
design the subsequent trade reform ptocess. Given the limited results from the earlier
lization effort, the Government recognized the need to embark on more comprehensive
adjustment measures in order to change the basic economic struct  and to improve reowurce
allocation. As a consequence, renewed measures for stabilization were accompanied by a
major ex al tade libeizaton program and by a seie of peso devaluations. The
program was supported by two Trade Policy Lon (T?L) from the Bank in July 1986 and
November 1987.
6.        With rapid progress on trade liberalization beging in mid-1985, the Bank
decided to orient its economic and sector work (ESW) to examie domestic policies,
partcularly of a regulatoy nature, which were also constrning efficient resource allocation.
Concern over te issues was shared by many high level policy makers within the
Government as well as within academic circles in Meico. It was widely recognized that, to
achieve the desred strucural changes and to generate the required supply response, trade
liberlzati would need to be matched by similar reforms in other key areas of domestic
policies and the legal and egulatory fhmework.
7.        In Decenber 1988, the incog administafion fced a seriously deteriorating
economic situaion. Tbere had been no growth in eoconomic activity in more thn six years,
with a consequent sharp decline in per capita income, and e Ons of "austerAy fatigueW



.3
wene widely heard. Although the inflation rate had been somewhat reduced from the level of
the previous year, it remained at triple-dgit levels. The current account had once more
turned neative and the continued weakness in oil prices had adverse effects on both fiscal
revenues and prospecs for growth in total export values. The burden of foreign debt
sericing, and the consequent pressure on the exchange rate, represefted a major barrier to
an improvement in the investment climate, in particular to a reduction in extremely higb real
interest rates. Hence, renegotiation of the debt with the commercial banks, to begin in
early 1989, was seen as a key point in the effort to resume a growth trajectory. In early
1989 the PACTO agreement was revised. The new agreement, named the Stabilization and
Growth Pact (PECE), contained guidelines for price and wage adjustments and exchange rate
movements in an effort to consolidate price stability.
8.        Govarnment's policy agenda thus focussed on: (i) consolidation of the
stabilizon achieved under the PACTO; (ii) consolidation of the trade reform and (iii)
proceedin5 with the libeliion of domestic policies which effectively were inhibiting
competition. The Mexican authorities recognized that the resumption of growth would
require, among other things, inreased private investment and participation in the indusial
sector. The projet supported the reform of the regulatory framework as one of the means to
attain the objecdve of achieving a more competitive domestic market structure.
IO Objectives and lWcK.fiu
9.        The basic objective of the Industrial Sector Policy Loan (ISPL) was to support a
program of reforms to modernize the industrial sector by removing distortions in goods,
service and factor markelt, and by providing an appropriate insdtutional and regulatory
environment to enable industrial enterprises to meet the challenge of a more compettive
world economy and thereby to stimulate investment and growth. Most of the specific
measures and studies included in the program drew upon extnsive prior sector work and
efected the pnorties agreed to with the new Government as it qickly moved to initate
basic sucural reforms. The various elements were speled out in the Government's Letter
of Indusal Sector Policy and the Policy Matrx (Annex 1).
10.       The main components of the ISPL wee: (i) the lberalion of foreign
investment regulations, and procedures and harmonizon of tax treatment and strengtening
of promotional efforts to att   foreign investors; (-I) improvement of access to foreign
technology and promotim of domestic research and development actvities; (iii) reducdon in
deregulation of existing setor progrms (programas de rama") as instrumnuts of industial
promotion to improve the efficiency of resource allocation; (iv) removal of entry barrers
resulting from excessive regulations and simplification of adminisative procedures affecting
enterptise costs of doing business; (v) the carrying out of a comprehensive study to identify
and remove impediments to competition and efficiency in the truckdng sector and the
development of a plan to implement the study's recommendations; (vi) fiuther reduction in
QRs and the carryg out of studies on eort quotas and on the adequacy of unfir tde
practices regulations; and (vii) study of factrs impairing labor mobility.



-4-
11.       Studies were to be done as a basis for developing action progams to supplement
and complement the measures which had already been take, cither shortly after the
inaugurtion of the new administration or following upon discussions with the Bank in
connection with loan appraisal. The studies which were to be underaken were designed to
identify further policy changes or amendments to existing legislation and policies needed to
improve the regulatory framework.
12.       A Bank mission visited Mexico in mid-1988 to build on the sector work ta was
being done on industrial policy and economic regulation. At the same time, a group of
Mexican economists, largely associated with the nstituto Tecnologico Autonomo de Mexico
(ITAM and including some Government officials contributing in their personal capacities,
had begun detailed studies of the effect of regulation n. several sectors of the economy.
Close contact was established between the both teams. Some of the Mexan economists
provided inputs to the Bank work, and the Bank contributed to the financing of the Mexican
studies under tcnical assistance cornrponents of existing loans.
13.       A clear concepWtual foundation of the project resulted from this work.
Preiminary results of the variou studies undetaken began to emerge by the Fail of 1988.
Not unexpectedly, these matials highlighted the difficulties of output expansion in the
prevailing climate which included over-regulation, excessive administive red-tape, bafriers
to technological tansfer and to foreign investment, and regulatory constraints on the supply
of transport services. The studies confirmed that without the extension of the reform process
to these areas, the benefits of the opening of the Mexican economy to inteonal
competition would be dissipated.
14.       At the time of the 1988 Bank annual meetngs, the outgoing Mexican
Government asked for a multiple loan package. After considerable discussion with Mexican
authorities, Bank Management concluded that it would be appropriat for the Bank to
formulate a compehensive assistance package to achieve a rpid transfer of resoures and,
simultaneously, to support expanded policy reform initatives which the new Govemment was
prepared o implement along with the extensinn of its stabilizaton progam. In this manner,
the Bank would assist in achieving the fundamental objecdve of the Mexican authorities, to
provide a basis for viable economic growth. The three-loan package was part of an oveall
assistance strategy which included a sei of adjustments loans. The immediate objective
was to prepa  quick-disbursing, high impact policy-oriented operations amounting to US$1.5
billion which would be sufficient to help meet the goverment's resource mobi ton arget
set for FY89. In the immediate future, the Bank would come in with a debt resriucunng
operation, with the commercial bank, to help deliver the quick-disbursing fumds.
15.       Three areas of major reform efforts were identified by the Mexic  authories:
public enterpise reform, financial sector reform and industrial sector policy reform. The
Bank had not been able to get agreement earlier from the Mexican authorities to undeak



substantive financial sector work and had done relatively little in public enterprise reform. A
tremendous effort was made during loan appraisal to prepare quickly thee demanding
adjustment loans for those programs and to coordinate with the outgoing govemment and the
new government's transition team. It was proposed to present the three operations, each for
US$500 million, simultaneously to the Board by June 1989. Parallel appraisal missions for
all three loans were in the field in October-November 1988.
16.      The loan design was innovative in the sense that although basic parameters were
agreed, most second tranche release conditions were not clearly established ex ante, but
consisted in agreeing on action plans that Were to be established based on studies that still
had to be carried out. This was possible only because of the shared views of the
Government and the Bank on economic policies and strategies and the history the
Govemment had of delivering on policy commitments under earlier sector adjustment
operations. The scope and scale of the project as well as the timing were appropriately
designed to provide complimentarily of the ISPL with the two other parallel sector
adjustment operations and with the whole adjustment support program.
17.      As mentioned earlier, the initiative for all hee of the sector loans came from
the de la Madrid government and the appraisals were carried out in close coordination with
members of the Salinas administration's transition team. By the time of the loan
negotiadons, the new administration was in place. The senior level of the incoming
Secretaia de Comercio y Fomento Industrial (SECOFI), responsible for policy formulation
in most of the areas of domestic policy reform covered by the dialogue, included many of the
expers who had participated in the original detailed sectoral studies. This contributed to the
cdear deintion of the leading role and responsibility of SECOFI for the project.
18.      Negotiadons for the ISPL proved to be more time consuming than excted.
Although there was broad agreement between the Bank and the Mexican authonties on the
substance of the refonns, there were differences regarding the timing of some actions and the
extent to which the Government would quantify and make public certain of its objectives. In
part, these problems reflected the concerns of a new administration as to the time it would
take to get consensus among those agencies which had not participated in the design of the
reforms but which would be required to participate in implementation as well as the time
needed to make changes in the strctucre and personnel of several of the agencies which
would be involved in implementing the new policies.
19.      in view of the Government's intention to continue negotiations with industrial
groups, e.g., the automotive industry, the Government requested that language be introduced
in the loan agreement noting that the scope and timing of action plans could be affected by
such negotiations in order not to compromise the government's negotiating positions.
20.      In retrospect, the aspect of project design that most contributed to its success was
the innovative approach that allowed enough room for the unfolding of events and
consolidations of views by the decision-makers on the details of the reforms while having full



-6-
agreement on all importnt policy objecdves. There was still the rislc, of course, to arive at
the estimaed second tranche relase date with unsatisfactory action plans.
21.       The ISPL, along with the two other sector adjustment loans comprsing the
assistance package, was approved by the Board on June 13, 1989 and was signed on June 16,
1989, becoming effective on June 29, 1989. The first tranche of US$250 million was
rdeased for disbursement upon effectiveness while the second tranche, US$247 million, was
to be released after November 1989 upon fulfillment of specified conditions in all key policy
areas supported under the program. The balance of US$3 million was set aside for technical
assistance and stdies to support the program. Retroactve financing of US$100 million was
made available for expenditures incurred from Februay 15, 1989.
22.       During loan processing, the Bank became increasingly concerned over the
possible magnitude of Mexico's extemal debt service requirements in the medium-term and
its ability to mobilize the necessary extenal resources for economic growth. On thier part,
the Mexican authorities indicated that attempts at debt reduction, to reduce the burden of debt
sevicing, would play a major role in the elaboration of futumre financial packages. For this
purpose, they intended to take advantage of the *Brady Plan' which had been announced in
March 1989, at the start of the loan negotiations. It was therefore agreed that, for each of
the three loans, up to US$125 million would be set aside within the respective second tranche
for possible use in the implementaton of a debt reduction plan, subject to the Bank's
concurrence. It was also xected that a specific loan for asisting in the debt reduction
exercise would be processed in the Fall of th  year, during FY9O.1Y
23.       Prior to ISPL Board pentation n May 1989, the Mexin Government and the
IM  reached agreement on an Extended Fund Faciity (EFF) for SDR 2.8 billion (about
US$4.1 billion) covering throe years and an optional fourt year. Also in connecdon with
the mobiliation of extnal rues, the Mexican Government and the Export-Import Bank
of Japan signed agrements in November 1989 whereby the latter co-financed each of the
three policy loans provided by the Bank in the amount of US$300 million. The total of
US$900 milLion was also to be disbursed against eligible imports and thus could be
subsequently used by the Governmfnt for credit enbacement in its 1989-1992 financing
package.
I1 'Set-asides' were also introduced in three sector adjustment/hybrid operations which had
been approved earlier. the Fertilizer Sector, Agncultural Sector Adjustment and Steel Sector
Restructuring Loans. The total for set-asides amounted to US$750 million. The Interest
Support Loan (Ln. 3159-ME), approved in September 1989, amounted to US$1.26 billion.
The role of the Bank in the debt restructuring exercise, both from the point of view of
technical inputs as well as financial assistance, is discussed in the PCR for the Interest
Support Loan.



-7-
fct Implementation
24.       Following appraisal and prior to Board presentation of the ISPL, the Government
had taken a number of specific measures reflecting its basic commitment to policy reform for
the industrial sector. Under the ISPL, the studies in priority areas were to be the basis of
action plans, to be agreed with the Bank, to accelerate the reform process in order to
achieve the desired changes in the business climate and to create the necessary environment
for economic growth. In some instances, they took satisfactory actions without completing
action plans, or action plans were basically agreed in the ISPL conditionality.
25.       Where the Government had committed itself to prepare action programs or
implement existing ones as conditions of second tranche release, the relevant measures were
taken before the end of 1989 when the release was being reviewed (Annex II). Moreover,
the actions taken often exceeded the targets established, or anticipated, at negotitons. In
several areas, the preparation of studies had been considered necessary for elaborating action
plans but the only study completed in time for the review dealt with the deregulation of the
trucking industry. During Bank supervision missions in late 1989, the Mexican authorities
provided action programs in those policy areas, based on the preliminay findings of the
studies. This was an important variance between planned and actual project implementation,
but given the progress already made and the agreement on the direction of the reforms, the
Bank considered the action programs to be satisfactory to meet the requirements for second
tranche release. The funds were released in February 1990, US$122 million available for
quick disbursement and US$125 miUion set aside for subsequent use in the debt reduction
exercise, as discussed above (pam. 18).
26.       Another vaiance between planned and actual project implementtion concerned
the US$3.0 million technical assistance component. The total amount required to finance the
studies attached to loan conditionality (about US$500,000) was considerably lower than
appraisal estimates because the work was done by local experts while the estimates were for
internaonal experts. In addition, the Government chose not to hire additional extnal
experts in areas where they aLready had access to highly qualified advisors. This vanance
probably could have been reduced if the Bank had not insisted on providing adequate funds
for international experts.
27.       Changes in sectoral structure in response to the new set of policies are difficult
to identify in the short period since the initiation of reform. Perhaps more importantly, in
the long-term the impact of industri sector reform cannot be separated from the other policy
reforms undertaken at the time, particularly trade liberalization, from the stabilization effort
itself and from the results of the debt restructuring. There have also been further related
developments, e.g. NAFTA.



-.6-
28.         M ans Macoenomic performance since 1989 has
been considered highly satisfactory with the main objectives of economic stabilization largely
met. Moreover, GDP which showed virtually no growth from 1980 through 1988
(representing on a per capita basis a substantial decline) increased by an annual average of
almost 4% in the period 1989-1991, signifying positive per capita gains (see Annex M).
inflation, which had reached thee-digit levels in the mid-1980s, was reduced to under 20%
by 1991. Although there has been a deterioration in the extemal trade balance due to the
sharp rise in imports, foreign exchange reserves have increased substantially reflecting
massive inflows of capital, both direct and portfolio investment, and apparently some capital
flight return. A key factor in overall performance has been sustained fiscal austerity with
the primary surplus reaching over 7% of GDP in 1990. Real interest rates averaged some
2% in 1991 as compared to over 40% in earlier years. There have been reversals however
starting at the end of 1991, and reflecting in large part, world economic conditions.
Domestic real interest rates inched up during 1992 to a level of about 12% during the last
quarter. There has been a slowdown in growth of the economy, with estimates indicating
growth at about 2%-3 % for 1992. Questions are being raised on the sustnability of capital
flows to finance the current account deficit of 6%-7% of GDP.
29.       Shortly after assuming office, the Salinas administration moved to extend the
PACTO. The revised agreement in early 1989 (PECE) contained guidelines for price and
wage adjustments and exchange rate movements in an effort to consolidate price stability. It
was subsequently renewed several times. The current phase ends in January 1993.
30.      In mid-1990 a successful restructuring of Mexico's commercial debt was
completed, reducing pressure on the exchange rate. There is litde doubt that this
achievement had a major impact on the level of confidence of the private sector and almost
immediately led to a significant decline in domestic nominal and real interest rates. The
confidence of the domestic private sector was given a further boost by the announcement at
the end of 1990 of the privaization of the nationlized banking system, leading to further
reductions in real interest rates through 1991. Balance of payments data, moreover, suggest
substantal return flows of flight capital. (Annex I[I). In addition, Mexico's creditworthiness
rating has improved enabling a successful return to the international capital markets.
31.       Among the structural changes which have emerged is the degree of openness of
the economy. The total of exports and imports of goods and services as a proportion of GDP
now stands at some 32%, more than double the level prevailing during the 1970s. Exports
of goods and services had been of the order of 8 to 9% which was one of the lowest ratios
among the newly indusrialing countries. The current ratio of 15 to 16% remains well
above the 1965-1975 levels in spite of recent sharp declines in revenues from hydrocarbon
sales which had dominated export earings since the mid-1970s. This performance reflects
the recent growth of non-petroleum exports, particularly of manufactured goods which now
account for over 50% of total exports. (Annex m) Another indicator of openness is the low
level of the average tariff now prevailing, some 13% as compared to 27% in 1982, as well



-9-
as the average dispersion in the current schedule (4.5%) compared to the earlier figure of
25%. (Annex IV) The maximum tariff is 20%, and non-tariff barriers have been reduced.
32.       Liberalization of the regulations on direct foreign investment, initiated in early
1989, and the growing awareness in international business circles of the extent of the change
in basic policy orientation of the Mexican Government have led to increasing interest in
direct investment, as well as indirect investment, in .he country. In 1991, almost US$10
billion in foreign direct and indirect investment was registered, equivalent to the total of the
three prior years (Annex V). The NAFTA discussions are also raising expectations.
33.       Sector PIrfomance, In the manufacturing sector, since 1987 output has shown
steady growth after the yearly fluctuations which marked the 1980-1986 period (Annex VI).
Performance among the sub-sectors varied considerably as the opening of the economy
forced many enterprises, previously heavily protected, to compete with imports in the
domestic market. The major factor underlying the recorded growth was the expansion of
exports of manufactures. It was estimated that the 15 branches of industry whose
contribution to output value increased during the period 1983-1990 exported some 16% of
their output; in contrast 15 branches whose share in output value had declined duning this
period exported only 6% of their product.
34.       The growth of manufactured exports since the early 1980s has played an
impornt role in offsetting the decline in earigs from petroleum exports which has resulted
from the fall in prices after the price shocks in the prior decade and, more recently, from
reduced export volumes. While petroleum accounted for some 65%-70% and manufactumes
25%-30% of total exports at the beginning of the 1980s, by 1991 the situation had been
completely reversed, with manufcures accounting for 70% of total exports and petroleum
30%(Annex VII). Most industrial subsectors exerienced some evansion in their external
sales but the principal gainers have been chemical products, ferrous metals, automobile parts
and components, and electrical and electronic machinery. These were generally the
subsectors where substantial investment in large-size plants oriented towards exports had
been undertaken in the earlier years to take advantage of Mexico's location, natural resource
endowments and availability of elatively inexpensive technical skills. While there is
anecdotal evidence of some recent growing diversification of exports, particularly among
medium-size firms, as a result of the new policy environment, it has not been possible to
make a more precise study of the present situation.
35.       Data on actual expenditure for industrial investment suggest major efforts at
modernization of the sector, increasing efficiency and compedtiveness and only marginally
increasing capacity. For the time being there appears to have been limited investment in new
facilities, reflected in the low share of construction in industrial investment. In recent
surveys of the private sector, many respondents indicated capacity constraints as a major
concern. The data on foreign investment, however, suggest that numerous large prijects,
involving substantial expansions of output capability, are now under construction or in the
pipeline and can be expected to be implemented shordy.



- 10-
36.       The share of manufacturing in GDP (measured in constant prices) has shown
little change since 1980 (Annex VI) with minor fluctuations during the period. Given this
overall flatness in share of GDP, the increase in manufactured exports confirms that exports
are now representing a much higher proportion of output than in the past. The subsectors
whose share of manufacturing output have increased (e.g. chemical products, machinery and
equipment) are those which have been the leading exporters. Conversely, subsectors largely
dependent on the domestic market have experienced declines in their relative importance. In
the case of textiles and clothing and wood products, which had been heavily protcted, output
has declined since the beginning of the 1980s as these enterprises have had difficulties in
competing with imports. As indicated in Annex VI1, these changes began to emerge
following the initiation of the trade liberalization process in 1986.
Evaluation of Reforms and Remaining Aenda
37.       Achievement of Overall Objectives.  The basic objectives of the Bank's
assistance package to Mexico, to support a comprehensive program which would achieve
both stabilization and structural reform, have been met. There is every indication that the
country's economy is now back on a long-term, sustainable growth trajectory. This is not
meant to imply that all problems have been solved, but rather to note that a solid economic
base has now been established from which furither progress is possible.
38.       The macroeconomic parameters of the stabilization have been set out in the
previous section along with indications of the favorable response by the industrial sector to
the change in its signals. Certain very specific measures supported under the ISPL (e.g.
liberalization of direct foreign investment regulations, deregulation of trucldng) have had
very clearly identifiable impacts. However, evaluation of the impact of these measures must
also consider the dynamic nature of all economic relationships and the flow of current events.
The determination of the Mexican Government to pursue the NAFTA with the United States
and Canada will alter the situation,. making identification of impact of specific measures all
the more difficult.
39.       Peceptions of the Private Sector. What is clear, however, is the change in
perceptions in the private sector which will have a positive influence on its behavior. With
the benefit of hindsight, one cannot overestimate the extent of the shatteing of the
confidence of the private sector as a result of the policy upheavals from the mid-1970s to the
mid-1980s. The significance of the trade liberalization program adopted in mid-1985 was
underlined by the decision to join GAIT in the following year, a step designed to convince
both the domestic private sector and the international trading community of the seriousness of
these efforts. Moreover, the extent of the trade policy changes subsequently adopted went
far beyond the Mexican commitment to GATr.
40.       The implementation of the reform programs shortly after the new Government
took office at the end of 1988 was followed by the largely successful debt restuctring and
reduction negotiation. This process involved furither significant commitments on the part of



- 11 -
the authorities concerning the basic orientation of the future Mexican economy. The
implementation of the decision to prvatize the nationalized bankdng system which started at
the end of 1990 and the privatization of major public enterprises such as TELMX
(telecommunications) and the steel and fertilizer sectors in the period beginning in 1989
similarly served to signal the depth of the policy commitment.
41.       There is some concern that necessary legislative action to complete reform in
some areas (for example, direct foreign investment) has yet to be taken. To some extent,
legislative and regulatory ihanges required for firming up the policies initiated are being
delayed pending approval of NAFrA. It is likely that the NAFTA agreement will require
many amendments to existing legislation so that any action at this time could lead to
unnecessary duplication of effort by the legislature and, to some extent, unnecessary political
debates.
42.       Interviews with private industrialists indicate that policy reforms affecting foreign
investment, financial institutions and external trade are the most bansparent and are generly
cited as having the most impact on their decisions. Many of these individuals also remarked
favorably on the emergence of competition in the trucking industry, particularly in terms of
improving availability of service. In 1990, the Road Trsport and Communications Loan
(Ln. 3207-ME) followed up on tansport deregulation. Although some enteprises noted
important reductions in their costs for such services, the extent of the overall reduction in
cost of these facilities was difficult to measure.
43.       While it is acknowledged th  elimination of many federal regulatons and the
simplification of administrative procedures have been of benefit, the persistence of
bureaucratic attitudes among federal agencies at worling levels and the failure to underake
similar reforms of burdensome state and local regulations are cited as continuing problems.
One of the principal objectives of the deregulation process was to remove the bariers to the
establishment of new enterprises and some dme will need to elapse in order to permit
judgements on th issue.
44.       Some observers commented on the problems of smal and medium-size firms,
noting that these may be facing speci difficulties at this time, particularly in the area of
access to finance. Given the restucturing which is going on in the privatized banks and the
need to develop appropnate project analysis methods and staff, it was noted that these
institutions may be finding it convenient under present circumstances to focus their activities
on larger borrowers. NAFIN, formerly the Government's principal institution for direct
channelling of funds to industry, has been fully converted to a second tier facility in line with
the reforms of the financial sector supported by the Bank's Financial Sector Policy Loan. In
line with the GOMs policy to increase support to smaller enterprises, NAFIN has expanded
rapidly its lending as well as its technical assistance and promotion activities to spur the
growth of the micro and small business sector.



- 12-
Sustainiability of the Reform Prcss
45.       Two successive administrations have implemented far-reaching economic reform.
Based on historical precedent, any successor Government is likely to have a commitment to
continuity in the external orientation of economic policy. At the same time, the various steps
which have been taken to tie Mexico into the world trading system provide some reassurance
that no reversal could take place, essentially by making such a reversal too expensive. Many
observers in the private sector believe that the ratification of the NAFTA would make it
virtually impossible for Mexico to turn again to ar. inward orientation of policy and would
make its extemal orientation permanent.
Performan-e of- the Bnk
46.       Mexico's situation in 1988-1989 presented the Bank with a unique opportunity.
The new Government was prepared to implement major economic reforms in a wide array of
policy areas. There had been a fruitful and continung economic dialogue between Bank staff
and officials of the outgoing administration, as well as with those who were expected to
assume key policy making responsibilities in the incoming administation. As a consequence,
there was an unusual degree of consensus on the need to take strong and clear measures to
promote growth and on the substantive content of the reform programs.
47.       At the same time, the deteriorating economic conditions indicated that Mexico
would have a need for a considerable transfer of resources in the immediate future and most
lkely for the medium term. While the magnitude of those requirements would clearlv be
beyond the resources of the Bank, and limits of Bank exposure, it was neverthdless felt that
a significant commitment over a reasonable period of time could have the kind of catalytic
impact that the Bank has historically seen as one of its principal wisons d'etre. During
that crucial period, the Bank was virtually the only source of foreign finance for Mexico.
Not only was it essential to convince, by example, the international financial community of
the soundness of the basic strategy which the Mexican Government was prepared to
implement but it was also important to show supprt for those officials responsible for
defining the policy framework in esponding to domestic crtics both from within and outside
the Government
48.       The Bank performed well during the preparation and appraisal process. The
ability to elaborate rapidly a comprehensive policy reform program for the industrial sector,
to be supported by the ISPL, reflected the quality and depth of the Bank's prior economic
and sector work. The appraisal team was in the field in October-November 1988, during
which time it identified, prepared and appraised the loan. As ste earlier, in spite of close
coordination with the incoming government's transition team, the tentative agreement on the
focus and conditionality of the three operations still needed to be discussed, reconfirmed and
negotiated with the new administration in spite of widespread overlap between members of
the transition team and of the new government. The Bank's resident representative office in
Mexico City was effectively used to maintain continuous contact with the new adminiton



- 13 -
once it assumed office. Draft documentation was discussed within the Bank before the end
of the year and it was possible to begin formal negotiations with the Mexican authorities by
mid-March.
49.      In terms of use of the Bank's staff resources, a rough comparison shows that the
ISPL was the least expensive to prepare of the three sector adjustment operations. The
records indicate that the total time required was only about 61 staff weeks (30 for preparation
and appraisal and 31 for negotiations), to be compared with an average of 124.5 staff weeks
required for adjustment lending operations in the LAC region in FY90-FY92, excluding the
FY89 Mexican assistance package. For FY88 and FY89, preparation of the study on
industral deregulation which provided a major input for project design and appraisal
involved 145 staff weeks.1' Supervision was adequate and timely in relation to the
scheduling of tranche release.
Performan of the Borrower
50.       The strong commitment of the Mexican Government to the reform process was a
fundamental facor in the successful design and implementation of the loan, as well as of the
two other loans in the assistance package. Actions were taken under the ISPL in many
policy areas in advance of time schedules, in some cases far exceeding in substance the
original content of the progam. (Annex 1) While considerable time was spent in
negotiations, the main problems concemned the degree of gradualism in introducing the
proposed changes. The Mexicans did not want to be tied down too much in order to have
leverage in terms of the extent and speed of implementation of policy changes. The Mexican
team had only recently taken office and time was required to develop its inte    staffing
relations to implement the program.
L       emnam1
51.       It would appear, with hindsight, that the conditions under which the Bank's 1989
assistance package o fthree adjustment loans and the medium term lending program for
Mexico were elaborated were so 'ideal' that it might be dangerous to generalize that
experience for application to other countries. However, an important overarching lesson is to
realize the high rurns that can be gained from the time and resources spent to build up a
meaningful and extensive country dialogue with key decision-makers on the economy and to
maintain an open an frequent channel of communications. What was 'ideal' was the
widespread coincidence of views of the GOM and the Bank which was based on a long
period of intensive dialogue and joint analysis. As indicated earlier, the underpinning sector
work in many areas was at times patchy (and virtually non-existent in some for the two other
operations under the ftree loan package) but this was overcome through an almost
JL The completion of the report Mexico: Industrial Policy and Regulation was delayed as
staff originally assigned to this work took part in loan processing.



- 14 -
superhuman effort and commendable cooperaion with the Mexicans during appraisal in the
field. Wbile there were many logistical problems and time pressures in meeting the
deadlines for preparing the numerous documents asociated with dtee separate loans, the
overall environment, intellectually and politically, was conducive to generate and carry out
successfully the imaginative approach adopted and design a well-focussed and comprehensive
program.
52.       On the side of the Bank, a fruitful dialogue on economic policy had been
developed which had already resulted in several significant adjustment operations. That
dialogue, formaized beginning in 1985 with the semi-annual Country Strategy
Implementation Review (CSIR) process, also had encouraged the broadening of ESW and the
initiation of studies, involving Mexican experts, to examine further policy areas where
reform was required. The the Bank's resident representative office in Mexico City had been
established which would permit even closer contacts with the Govemment's key policy
makers. The office did not perform so much a traditional economic monitoring role but
helped to establish virtually daily contats with high level policy-malkrs. Also many of the
key policy makers of the new government held key positions in the previous one (e.g. the
President and the Sertaries of finance and of the budget) or had been involved in joint
ector work with the Bank. In contrast to the situation at the time of the 1981-1982 crisis
when the Bank had inadequate intelligence on the nature of the problems then facng Mexico,
the staff appeared to be very much on top of the situation.
53.       Prom the point of view of Mexico, an administration which had clear views as to
the economic policy direction it wished to follow was about to take office. Although its
political position, pardy due to the controversy surrounding its electoral victory, appeared to
be not as strong as that of previous administrations, it believed that only by taking firm and
decisive action early in its term would it be able to bring about the fundamental changes it
considered necessary to break the existing stagnation and to achieve income growth. The
successes which followed can be attributed to the appropriateness of the essential strategy of
the Government, to deal simultaneously with stabilization, structual adjustment and debt
reduction.
54.       Due in great part to the profound intellectual interchange which had ocurred
earlier between key policy makers and the Bank staff, there was already general agreement
as to the principal focus of the required measures which the Bank could support, with only
fte need to elaborate some details. Moreover, as in the case of the Interest Support Loan,
the Bank demonstrated considerable initiative in designing an unorthodox set of three lending
operations which formed a comprehensive and consistent overall package.
55.       As regards the details of the ISPL, a second important lesson is the need to bring
subtleness and imagination to be adaptable to expediencies. Given the agreement on the
dircdon of fte policy measures to be taken in the various areas, the requirement for studies
represented the need for a vehicle to reach consensus among the Mexican authorities on
defining dates and, in some cases, the scope of actions required. In some instances studies



- 15 -
were considered useful in allowing confidendality to be guarded while finalizing deailed
policy formulation and timing of implementation (the Bank was told confidentially at
negotiatons what the government's intentions were on important issues, but they could not
be made public at that time). Thus, when the policy decisions were taen, the actual
measures adopted often went beyond the commitments made dunng loan negotiations.
56.       Another lesson may be drawn from the expenences with the studies, that is, the
need to be more selective in specifying thes measures as part of the conditionality for
tranche release for adjustment loans, Given the short perod of time between loan approval
and the expected date for sec";J -aanche release, only the study on trucbkng, esetially
drawing on the work which had been initiated earlier, was completed on schedule. Among
fte other studies, it appears that only those dealing with technology served to assist
efficiently the authorities in elaboraing detailed policy and institutional measures. In these
instances, that was made possible by the active partiipation of the officials involved in
decision makdng in ebrating and monitoring the studies.
57.       Finally, once studies have been agreed, there is also a need to ensure adequate
disseminatin and discussion of study results within different Govement agencies, not only
the principal one responsible for supervision, to achieve the basic objectives of undertaing
these analyses. Unless some broader approach is taken to discussion, there is the danger that
the reports will merely end up in more or lss impenetable files of the responsible office or
will support narrowly defined ints of that office. The Bank has generally agreed that
reports caried out under technical assstance components of its loans are the property of
Government who detennines how fte results will be used. Nevertheless, if the issues to be
examined are critical enough to be included under sectoral reform loans, then every effort
should be made to provoke the broad discussions the themes deserve.



- 16-
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPE VE *
*   Part H was submitted by NAFIN as a single report in Spanish, a copy of which is in
the project file.



- 17 -
BBL-150-II1-93-(624)
_ ERENCIA DE.FINANCIAMIENTOS MULTILATERALES
I de marzo de 1993
SR. DAVID DE FERRANTI
Jefe de Divisi6n de Operaciones
Infraestructura y Energia.
Banco Mundial
1.bLt- 11. Si:rsmmt N.'W.
Washingtc;., D.C.
204c3. U.S.A.
Me refiero al Pr6stamo 3067-ME, destinado a apoyar el Programa de
Reformnas de Pol{tica, instrumentado por el Gobierno Federal en el
Sector Irndustrial, y especAiicamente a la parte II del Reporte de
Terminaci6n de Proyecto (PCR) y a los comentarios de las partes I
y III del mismo.
Sabre el particular, anexo encontrara la matriz de politica que
refleja las observaciones de la Direcci6n General de Fomento
Industrial de la SECOFI, asl como los comentarios relativos de la
Coordinaci6n General de Politicas, Estudios y Estadisticas del
Trabajo de l.A STyPS.
Sin m&s.por el momento, aprovecho la ocasi6n para enviarle un
cordial saludo.
A T E N T A M N T E
L:  .JUA  MANU  IZQUIERDO SOSA
ente
Anexo:    Lo citado.
c.c.p.    Lic. Cesar  GutiOrrez L6pez.- Subdirector  de Proyectos
del Sector Industrial.-, S.H.C.P.
ccf.l    Lic.  Timoteo Harris Howard.- Subdirector de Organismos
|I4N  Internacionales.- NAFIN.
aIc a fN*ERM
nclnad finOcMOrS



- 18 -
MWAM  OF SECO  R
Text of comments submitted by the Miistry of Trade and Industrial
Development:
PETROCHEMICAIS
AtI  to be e
To reduce the basic petrochemicals to a maximum of 25. To define
an initial test of secondary petrochemicals.
Rom
Petochemicals were reduced to 20 and a list of 66 secondary
petrochemicals were identified through resolution published in the
offical daily of August 15, 1989. On June 7, 1991 methyl terbutil
eter (MTBE) was relasified from basic to secondary thus leaving
19 basic and 67 scodary peocemicals. On August 17, 1992 basic
petrochemicals we  reduced to only 8 and secondary ones to 13.
ACODS to be taken
To promote cooperation agrmen  between the pnvate sector and
PEMEX.
As a result of reclasicaton procses of fte petochemical industry,
especially snce 1989, investment schemes between PEMEX and the
domestic pvate industry have boe  estabhshed. This has made It
posible to terminate plants of 150,000 t/a of acrylonitrile (PEMEX-
Ceylonese-Medcan) and 75,000 t/a of acrylonitile (PEMEX Cydsa).
The latest reclascation process of petrcemicals will favor greater
complementarity of public and pnvate  vestment through the specific
orentation of the PEX     inestment in basic areas and a broader
area in producve nworks and the tchnologil development of the
sector.
MICROCOMPUTERS
Actou. to be taken
* To implement the agreed upon *ton plan, including:
(i)   gradual import ibalizaon of new computes starting by allowing
imports of speclzed hardware (e.g., Laptop computers, laser
printers) until complete elimi     of QRs is achieved in 1992.



- 9-
Gradual reduction of DCRs in computer producton untl completely
eliminated in 1992, beginning with one-third of current levels of
DCRs;
(ii) foreign exchange balance will be maintained. Depending on the
results of fte programs, these requirements will be made more
flexible; and
(iii) the sectoral program will be phased out by the end of 1992.
Satisfctory progress in implementation of plan of action.
Carry out agreed upon study on Mexico's international
competitiveness in Micro-computers.
Complete the study and agree on a plan for its implementation.
hoamMade
iberaization of computer imports since April 1990.
Deregulation, te same year, of eising manu ng requirements
in the computer field, such as intation level, trade balance,
research and technology development expenses, prices and capital
structure.
FElARMfACEUTICAL SETO
Action to be taken:
* Implement the agrmed upon plan of action, including:
(i)   commitment not to renew ths sectoral program (programa de rama);
and
(ii)  gradual and concerted elimination of QRs and reducdon of DCRs for
pharmaceuticals   ng into account existing contal arangements.
QRS on 15 harmonized tariff items will be eliminated, and further
redactions will take place subsequendy.
Sadsfactry progm  in implementation of plan of action.
Submit Terms of Rerence for a study: (i) to detemine methods for
a sound pricing policy in the pharmaceutical sctr and (ii) to
establish appropriate standards and procedures in the sector.
Complete tie study and agree on a plan for its implementation.



-20-
This program has not been renewed as of today, and the requirements
of domestic content were eliminated when the phamaceutical
industry's development program ended.
In 1989 the gradual and concerted liberalization of the previous
restrictions on the pharmochemiicals was agreed upon with the
industrial sector, and today has been done for 70% of the products.
The gradual liberalization of prices of medicines was done in March
1991.
AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY
Actions to be taken
Q)   gradual opening of imports of automobiles, light, medium and heavy
trucks, trar-tailer trucks and buses. The liberalizaion of new cars
(similar to the ones domestically produced) and all truck will proceed
in the following stages:
-  tially only vehicle producers will be allowed to import, later on
other importrs will be allowed.
- Inially only economy cars could be imported, while cars to
complement domestcaly produced lines could be imported later, and
- QRs will be maintained for luxury care not simila to the
domestically produced. QRS on cars, trucks and buses, similar to the
domestically produced, will be gradually reduced to increase
internatonal competitiveness of domestic car producers;
(ii)  gradual reducdon of DCRs in the producdon of automobil, light,
medium and heavy trucks, tractor-trailer trucks and buses. In the frst
step to be taken on the 1991 model, DCRs on automobiles will be
lowered to 50% and by 10 percentage points on each category of
trucks and buses. DCRS will be further reduced in subsequent model
years;
(iii)  gradual reduction of DCRs for autoparts, beginning with a 105
reduction in the 1991 year model. Liberalization of autoparts impor
by gradually removing the remaining QRs;
(iv)  the foreign exchange balance requirements will be maintned.
Depending on the results of the program, these reqirements will be
made more flexible;



-21 -
(v)   elminato of regulations restricting efficient organization of
production of vehicles and autoparts producers (e.g., car models and
lines); and
(vi)  official announcement of the above program of import libefalization
and industrial dereguladon for the automobile sector to begin with
model year 1991.
Two decees were issued for the sector taking into consideration the
structual differences in industial process and the participation of
automobile, trucks, and bus markets.
Prsently and until the terminadon of the automobile decree, only the
producers will be able to carry out imports of automobiles and light
weight trucks under the terms that the decree establishes for the
development and modernization of the automobile industry.
Buses, tractor-trailer trucks and heavy-weight trucks bave a gradual
opening, according to the decree of auto-transport as follows:
libealiation of buses as of January 1991; of tactor-trailer trucks
since January 1992; and of heavy-weight trucks since January 1993.
No restriction exists for the qpe of line and model that manu1tturers
wish to import, as long as they concur with the guidelines set on the
decree such as: a positive ade balance, and up to a 15% of the units
sold in 1992 and 20% for model year 1993, in the case of
automobiles and light weight trucks.
For the heavy weight trucks, tractor-trailer trucks and buses, imports
should be of the same type that the Mexican entprise produces and
it should not eed the domestic value added generated and concurs
with a minimum of 40% of the cumulative value.
The effective automobile legislation still maintains restrictions on
imports of vehicles and parts.
According to the automobile decree which includes automobiles and
light-weight trucks, the domestic value added coming from domestic
providers should be 36% according to the decree of autotransport and
the domestic value added should be 40% minimum.
Companies devoted to manufacturing automobile parts should pay
30% of the domestic value added to obtain registration as an
automobile parts enterprise and for sale to the terminal industry.



-22 -
The requirement of a positive trade balance is maintained for the
manufcturer of automobiles, commercial light and heavy-weight
trucks.
The restrictions imposed on production are eliminated. The
companies of terminal industry can freely sexect the vehicles and
models they will produce.
The actions taken have been carried out on the basis of the decrees
that regulate the automobile industry sector since December 11, 1989
and their rules of application of June 8, 1990 and their inidation with
the 1991 model year.
LLABORt
Text of comments submitted by the Ministry of Labor:
1.   After reading points No. I and m of the World Bank report on loan
No. 3087-ME, to support the Program of Poliy Refom in the
Mexic  Industial Sector, this General Coordinator considers that, on
the one hand, the text is adequate and, on the other hand, the most
important elements in the labor sector in which it centered its
partcipation are given consideration.
2.   In essence, the General Coordinatr concurs with the need expssed
in part I, that the World Bank-financed studies be duly printed and
distributed, and that they serve as guidelines for the policy citeria of
the c ponding sector. Moreover, this concurs with the calendar
submitted in Part m, to which it was attached, since the elaboradon
of the study entitled  Identification of the Factors Interfering with the
Manpower Mobility in the Mexican Industial sector,' was finished as
scheduled (mid-1990).
3.    Shortly after the study was completed, it was discussed among sverl
officials of this Secretariat and the authors, who submitted written
answers to the observatons. Later, during 1991 and the first few
months of 1992, important changes in the labor policies of the
Maeican govemment took place. The instrumentation of the Training
and Productivity 1990-94 National Program was strted, and, the
National Agreement for the Improvement of Quality and Productivity.
Both texts recognize and focus on the several points of view contained
in the study referenced to.
4.   In mid 1992 this General Coordination received the visit of a World
Bank delegation headed by Mr. Irwin Basidnd. Its purpose was to be
infrmed about the stus of the study and its influence in the design
of the labor policies. On that occasion, the delegation was given the
information mentioned in the paragrph immediately above, and was



- 23 -
infomed that the conclusion of the process contemplated the
publicadon and the dinaion of the research at all lvels (public,
private and academic sectrs).
S.    Since July 1992 this Genera Coordination inidated the process of
editing the book, with the view to its publicaton in the shortest time
possible. It is estimated that the printing could be finished during the
first months of 1993.



r 24 -
.ZISTIIAL MOTOR POLICY LOAN
(Loan 3087-a)
PRWZEft COMMOTIN WaPRT
PART III
STTIS L TIOC
1. tanted hat lo0
IT of                                             ban
hMMORnI LMJLa. LuLt    1                          (Us million) 8a5E"
1ite     2331-U   zzprt Deelopomut                   350       Completed
1987     2745-    Trade Policy                       SOO       Closed
2777-U  Ebport Deelopm_t la                250       Disbursing
1988     2882-U   Trd PolUy II                       500       Completed
2916-U   Stee Sector Restreturing          400       Disbursing
2918-U   ADSAL                             300       Competed
2910-9-   ertiliser Sector                 265       Dibursiag
1989     3047-U   M.dustrial Ies tuctrg              250       Disburstng
3085     Public Enterprise Relo s          500       Copleted
3086-U   Financial Sector AdJutomnt        500       T.A. disb.
3087     Id       l Sector Poliy           Soo       Caopluted
1990    b3195-U   Intrsit lSupport                 19260       Cmpleted
-3207-       d   ansport & Com              380       Completed
1991     3309-U   Export Sector                      300       Disburing
3357-U   £0A1S.II                           400      Disburstng
3359-Um   Ming Secto llestcturiug           200      lDisbu s
2.Emt&znA
Date               Dat
Appraisal Misio  Dep.             Oct. 16, 1988         Oct. 169 1988
Start Of Negotiations             Mar. 6, 1989          Mar. 6, 1989
Board A4ppral                     Jum 13, 1989          June 13, 1989
Si81±ng Date                      June 169 1989         June 16, 1989
Effectiveness Date                Jue 29, 1989          June 29, 1989
Cloing Date                       June 30, 1990         June 30, 1991



. - 25 -
3.             uma                            Disut
(UJS amilon)
FT            FT
22            21
Appra:Ual estimate              S00
Actual                           497          497.5       2.5 cnellsed
Actual as 2 of estimated         99.4          99.5
Date Of Pinal Diaburesmets Jun. 26, 1991
4. . et Cots a.d Piani
Planned
LOSS
EXPanditur Categories
amoeral imports     372                   372
?ecu±alAssistance  3          0.5         0.5     2.5
(B8 d=e;) ~     ~      cacele
Debt Reduction      1                     12
xzBal  k Sof J* tm       300                   300
TOTAL           00797.5
5, Dam of lanul DResou  urc6e.9
(in moe. of .teif week.)
ZMk                           mam   mam
Preparation               6.3                                    6.3
Appraisal          2~~3.0     -                           23.0
meois                    32.21                                  32.2
Sub-toW             61.5                                   61.5
supervision               L.s     25.9       2.0       0.2      29.9
Total               63.3      25.9       2.0       0.2     91.4



- 26 -
No. of   No. of    Total  Date of
~~~~mhl  Suo,Nokm   An=P 
Appraisal        Oct-Nov 1988         2                           fay 22, 1989
supezv±e±n I         Oct 1989         1          3         3      Nov  29 1989
8uprvlos U2          Now 1989         1          2          2     Dec 13, 1989
supervision III      Jon 1990         1          2          2     Jul 24, 1990
Superlsion IV        NoW 1990         1          1          1     Jan 249 1991
Cawpletion           Jun 1992         2          2          4         _



27                              Annex 1.A
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
M xico, D. F.,   May 12  ,1989
SVItTAfl1A
DE
K1Ut AT ?cRfTo PUDLICO
HR. BARBER B. CONABLE
PRESIDENT
WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C.
1.  This letter describes the Government of Mexico's program to modernize
the industrial sector. This program aims at removing market distortions,
and at providing an appropriate institutional and.regulatory environment to
enable industrial enterprises to meet the challenge of a more competitive
world economy and thereby stimulate productive Investment and growth.
2.   Increasing manufactured exports offers a promising path towards a
renewed Industrial growth.   In 1985, the Goverment of Mexico began to
implement a number of far reaching policy changes desiped to liberalize
the economy, to reduce unjustified subsidies, and to remove distortions
which had impaired the international competitiveness of the industrial
sector.
3.   The Goverment of Mexico has takenT other Important steps to refom  its
industrial sector. A new Governmeat procurement law has been introduced.
The regulatory framework for foreign investment is being simplified and
made more flexible to stimuate direct foreign investment (DFI). Actions
taken in specific subsectors include: an increased patent protection; the
lowering of domestic content requirements (DCRe) for exports in the
automotive sector; and the elimination of most quantitative restrictions
(QUs) for imports of autoparts, micraocomputer components and secundary
chemicals.   Additionally, private petrochemical firms have been given
freedom to Import inputs and to produce a larger number of final products,
wbile energy subsidies have been eliminated.  CEOFI (fiscal promotion
certificates) Incentives have been eliminated from most industrial
activities. In addition, Interest rate subsidies to Industry bave been
virtually elaimted an  market-oriented interest rates have been
adopted by fiauncial iustituions.  In transport, trucking movements across
the U.S. Border have been liberalized for the in-bond industry, and
limitation on the shipent of goods by containers has been reduced.



Annex LA
_ 28-
SECREtARIA
DE
HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUDLICO
THE POLICY AGENDA.
4.   After the remarkable progress in the area of trade liberalization, the
Government of Mexico recognizes that the resumption of growth will require,
among other things, an increased private investment (domestic and for/.ign)
in the industrial sector. Reforming the regulatory framework to foster
e!ficiency and stimulate technological development will be one of the means
to attain this objective.   This is consistent with our overall policy
agenda, which has focussed on consolidating the stabilization achieved
under the "Pactos", completing and consolidating the trade reform,
proceeding with the deregulation of domestic policies which effectively
inhibit competition, and thus gradually resuming a sustainable growth
process.
T-E ACTION PROGIA.
5. The Government of Mexico is committed to Implement a program of
reforms aimed at modernizing the industrial sector. The program includes
stimulating DFI, promoting new technology, rationalizing the sectoral
approach to industrial develoment and simplifying the administrative
procedures.
6.   The sectorial programs (programas de fomento) have served a useful
purpose in the past, stimulatiug investment and export growth in certain
subsectors.  However, the protection granted to these subsectors and the
related economic and fiscal costs are no longer justified. A new strategy
is being defined in consultation with the Industry representatives, and
taking lito consideration existing conttactual arrangements.   The new
strategy will create a more competitive and dynamic environment for
industry.
7. To a certain extent, industrial development bas been hampered by some
administrative barriers, which have made entry difficult and Imposed a
substantial artifical cost to doing business. In order to solve this Issue
the Government of Mexico has established a task force and an action program
for administrative simplification.



Annex I.A
-29-
.Ju
ICC tTARIA
et
NAW A TURfOtTO PUDUCO
8e   Regarding fiscal Incentives to industry, the CEPROFI Is being limited
to micro and small scale enterprises and used only on an exceptional basis.
The Government of Mexico is comited to continue with the current interest
rate policy and to increase credit allocation to the industrial sector.
9.  The Government of -Mexico is interested in stimulating additional
direct foreign Investment.  To that end, It has made more flexible the
existing regulations and procedures. The new guidelines give transparency
and automaticity to the system and eliniaste the requirement of case by
case aproval In the vast majority of cases.
10.  In the context of an increasing Internationalization of the world
economy, development of, and access to appropriate teenhnology is becoming
more significant as an element of Industrial policy.
11. Regulations on the transfer of technology will be made less
restrictive and measures will be taken to adequately protect investors and
technology suppliers. On the institutional side, actions will be taken to
effectively link RD efforts by the public research infrastructure to the
demands of sexican Industrial development.   Technical assistance and
Information services will be upgraded to help promote the diffusion and
assimilation of tecbnology.
12.  A substantial lmproveents will be made concerning transportation
services. This is of crucia Importance to modernize industry.
13. The fulfillment of the objetives of the proposed industrial.strategy
requires a complementar trade policy.
14. The Goverment Is convinced of the benefits derived from International
competition. Therefore, trade liberalization measures will be maintained
and no major changes In tariff structure are foreseen over the medium term.
15. The sexican Govermsent states   that anti-dumping procedures and
countervailing duties should not be used as means of disguising protection
but as a mean to defend our, economy from,dumping and unfair trade practices.



30 -                               AnneX L A
6.A.1
SECRETARI
. OE
NACIP I =RITO PUBLICO
16. For each action concerning the oectoral programs, trade and transfer
of technology, the Government of Mexico states that the scope and timing of
the plans of actions discussed above may be affected according to the
results of international negotiations. The Government of Mexico will
intensify the process of negotiations and proposes to establish a mechanism
for consultation with the World Bank to evaluate the progress of the
negotiations based on market access.
PEDRO ASPE ARMLIA
MIISTER OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT



MEXICO
INUSRIAL SECTOt POLIC  LON
POLICV MAflIEi
IlU.,EctmIVE,         ACTIONS ALREADY  tBI                          ACTIONS TO-BE TAKEN                                 TIMR
I.  Imoree Factor
mobilt II
(a) Direct Porelon       Elmleetloe of dedetIbIlIlty of             Ioplmsntb th  agreed upon actlon pla to promote DFT
Investmet           ditidends o wd of the ,litholding tax on   lncl.dingI
resittences to foraein cooomaies
In aecordonce        beolnaing io 196.                          (g) iqplmentation of a comprohnolvo OFT promotion
wlth the Law of                                                  prorsem, to pooltion Movie* De a country with
Forelon              Publication ot the 6eolemeto of the          igonlficont and Important comparative advantageo, ond
InVetment,          OFTI low contalAlng the following            wilitng to comete In the lnternational market for
lib elite end      mesoros:                                     cOpltol;
Inceaseo
transparency and    (t)  llove autmatic mtS S DFI                (11) elaborating periodIcally and ma*ing widely
eutosetlclty In      particlpation In actlvitileo  somprelmg    avellable up-to-date Intormatlon On the nstional
DWI regietratton    03K of CGOP  requirng onlr the               economy and on concrote ilvestment opportunities; and
nd                   regltration of te lnveotaent with the
authoritatlon        CGlE.  Thle procaedre will be appliod       (1ii) eotsbilihing a data bonk on lnvesta.nt
procOs               It agreed upon OiniNma  requirents          opportunities and an specific projects with co-
concerning exports, regonal                 Invatatent pooolbiltIte  for SECOFI'e Subsocretorio do
development, technology and Investment    Inductria e Invoralon Extrmnjora to function so a
els  nare met:                              catalyst for co-in o-tment..
to



SSJETIVES            ACTIONS ALREADIY TAKEN                        ACTIONS To BE TAKEN                              MttIING
(i1) allows Increseod psrticipation of   Satisfactory progroes In lmplementtion of plan of           Boforo Second
the prleoto eector (doestic and            action.                                                   Trencho Release.
foreign) In areas subject to opoclfic
rooless;                                  Submit Terms of reforenco for a study to further
promote and liberallso DFt.
(111) lncreases tranopareney and speed
of CNIE dciseton oasking bys               Complote the study and agree on a plan for Ito
lpleant.tion.
- louing concise snd transparent
rteulations on CWIEaB criteria to
outhorite OFI, and
- Increasing decision making ocope of
CH#E0 Enocutive Scretary. 
establishing automatic opprovel of hli
Rtesolutons ofteo as daysp aSd
(IV) simplify Bnd dereulate
relotratlon procedures (IflE) by:
- incr,enong the time period to eomply
with regltration requlireeats,
- ellansting 401 of the procedures
required to register WPI In order to
reduce the tlio elapsed between
appilcation, approval ned regltrotlen
roem about 1-1/2 yoers, at present, to
2 month,o end
- establishing outomtic approvol of
reistratlon in the RUIE.
to



OUJICTIVES           ACTIONS ALREA9Y TIKLM                         ACTIONS To 0  TAKEN                                TIDING
(b) Technolo nm
1. Improve aesoos   Beonlno In   900, thb  withholding tax    I-plement the agree upon plan of action for technology
to foreion       on royslty ptay"to was reduced free         developmnt comprlsing:
technology       21X to 16.
1. Faciltation of the access of firms to nov
technology by ellminaCtng excesslve regulatlons from
the Registry of Technology Tranofer by tho following
actloast
(1) eliminate or reduce conditlons for rogletration
of the contracts reterrlng to the transfer of
tochnologlcol knowledge (I.e., programe of technical
sesoallation, suppilers' development, labor training,
export requirements), and Improve transparency for
thoso contracts by publishino clearly defoinod crtterta
for sotting ceilings on authorited royalty paymeoto;
(11) the registration of contracto related to
oanageent oorvices and transactlon of computer
prograoms ill bo eoliinatod or eImpilfid; and
(iii) publication of the new regulatory framemorb for
technology transfer to achieve the aboveO 63eaCtlWoo.
2. Orientation of the ctlvititoo of SECOFI'.
Dreccion General de Doosarrollo Tocnologieo towardo a
more active promotion of technological modernlastion
of fIrms.
A. Coordinatlon of oW0orts of dlfferont entitloo and
organizattonQ In tho pubilc and privato sectors, which
are Involved with technological modernization of
Industries.
Satisfactory progress In lmploemntation of plan of         Wefor* Second
action.                                                    Tranche Release



ODJECTIVES            ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                         ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                                 TIUINC
2.  romoto                                                       Carry out agreed upon study on major problems and
research and                                                 constralnto to technology developmont, Including: (t)
dovelopment                                                   Improving the protection of Industrial property to
(RAO)                                                        motlvate technological innovation within Industry and
actlvltlos                                                   strengthen property rlghtsi and (11) determlne the
meritt of compulsory upeondituroes on RBO and of
advancing patent protection for chemicals end
parDmacheaicl¢s to promote technology.
Completo the study and agree on a plan for Ito              Before Second
lmploemontbtlon to be coordinated by SECOFT with            Treanch  Relobse.         4
cooperation froe  varlove Inotitutiono.
(c) Labor                                                           Carry out agrood upon study to Identify factore
impeiring inter-lndustry labor mobility.
Increase
Interl"duetrtal                                                  Completo the study and agree on a plan of action for        Botore Second
Nobilit   f                                                      Its Implemontation.                                         Troncho Releace
Labor.
jt. goregubet..                                                      Automotive (includin2 truc.o and part..  Sector.
feteral Programs
Improve                                                      Implement tho aereed upon action plan to Improve
naduttrial                                                   compet.itieness, Includinsg
Efficiency
Through Trade
Liberali ation
and IdUatrial
Dereglation
Fl



OBJECTIVES            ACTIONS ALREADT TAKEN                         ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                                 TIMUIN
(I) gradual opening of Imports of autamoblloe, light.
eodium and heavy truche, tractor-trailer trucbs and
buses. The liberalization of now care (s8ellar to tho
ones domoosticelly produeod) and all truche 111
proceed In the follolng stages:
- Initially only vehcll- producers will be allWed to
Import, later on other Importero will be allowed.
- Initially only economy core could be Imported, while
care to complement domestically produced lines could
be Imported later, and
- P*a wuil be maintained for lusury core not siallor
to the domeotically produced. QRo on care, trucks and
buses, similar to the dometicelly produced, will bh
gradually rduceod to Increase Interaotioaal
co.petitivoenoe of domestic cor producers;
(11) grodual reduction of OCRs In the production of
outomobilos, llght, medium end heavy trucks, tractor-
trailor trucse and buses. In the first stop to be
toke" on the 10t model. OCRs on satoemoilo. sill be
lowered to NI and by 10 porcontege points on each
ceatoory of trueb and buses. DCiR sill be further
reduced In subsequent model years;
(ill) gradual reductlon of OCRl  for outoparte,
begineing with a 11 treduction In the I991 year model.
Llberalitatlon of outopprte imports by gradually
removing tho remaining QIs;
(iv) the foreign ouchangs balanco requirements will be
malotainod. Dopes,4iog on the results of the program,
these requirement. will be made more flexible;
'F4
(v) olimination of regulations reetricting efficient                              td
organliation of production of vehicle *ndaeutoparts
producers (e.g.. car models and lines); and



92ACTIAIES           ACTIONS AlREMY                               ACTION  TO LE tACEN                                TIINGr
(VI) Official announcemnt of tU  above program  t
imort llb.oelitation and lnduetrlst dr.iplation for
time autemotv  soctor to begin with  odel year 1091.
Satisfactory prep..e In lmplmentation of plan of           Befoore Second
action.                                                    Tranche Relea.o
Carry out agreed upoe study of tie autmetivo sector
Including Meaiceo  international coepetltlven.s In
the Indutry and the reglatory fraoework for
envirometal and safety standard..
Copleto tm  ot*y NW agre on a plan of action foe           Beforo Second
It. lnple_statlon.                                        Trancho Release
-PetreimemIcals:
mplement tie agreed upon action plan for tie
dovelop_et of tbl sector Ireinldno:
(I) reduce the numer of basic petrochemiells produet.
to a mauls.. l1it of 26. Dtefie an initial list of
secondary potrechmelcale and
(11) encorage coo"prative arrOagomnts betwn the
priveto secter aod 9EMEX.
SatIataCtory progr"es In implementatIon of plan of         9Bfore Second
action.                                                    Trench* Release
to



RliuhYIf             ACT1SM ALEADY TAK                            ACTINS TO KE TAKEN                                  IUMM
-Pbeeae oticele:
Pogram eae  In Dscebebr  1990 end was  InpIeont the agree  "PON P1la  ot act*on includIn;!
not reneed.
(I) c laolamt not to renw thli aectoral program
(progra  do rems)l and
(11) gradual and coAcOrttd .ll.i.tl.o  of 0RS fnd
reduction of WC  for pbarmacbelei   taknlg late.
account exdstlsn contractual arraneente. 4e on Is 
h§armoiod tariff Itess will he ominatnted* and
further rodectlosse ill  take place auboqueatly.                               8
Satisfactory prgreac to lmplementlon of plan of           Before Second
action.                                                   Trenche Release.
Submit Term of Reference for a studyt (1) to
datorsmim methoda for a sound Pricing pollCy In the
phrmaceutIcal eetor sad (11) to establish
appropriat etsadardo sad procedures In the sector.
Coeplteo  the etudy and agree o  a plea for Its           Before Second
lplee.tstion.                                            Trenche Releas
.I
w



CSJECTIV!S            ACTIONS ALREADY tAKEN                         ACTIONS TO KE TAKEN                                 TIUING
Iopleent the groes upon plan of action iscludings
([) gradual Import liberallastion of nmm coaputero
starting by allowing Imports of spociatlied hardware
(e.g., Laptop computers, Laser printers) until
complete ellminotton ot QRa 10 achieved in t9ot.
Gradual reduction of OCRo In computer production until
completely ellainated In 1992, beginning wIth ons-
third of current lovels of OCRe;
(It) forotgn exchange balance will bs maintained.
Dependng oa the result. of the progroam, these
requireamnts will be sad. more fl"ieblea mnd
(111) the sectoral program wtll be phsoed out by the
end of 1992.
Satisfectory progress In lmplamentstion of plan of          Bdeore Second
actlon.                                                     Tranch. Rolos..
Carry out agrood upon study oe Moelco's International
competltivonoao In Ulcro-coputoro.
Complota the study and agre  on a plan for Its              Beforo'Soecond
Implaeontatlon.                                             Tranche Release
-aF



OBJECT!YES           tACTIONS AL    Y TAKN                          ACTI    TO BE tlKEN                                TIMING
III Promote Non-
Coeds Market.
(a) Trede        Annced a clear stetment ot Trade
Li berita ittt..   Pol icy.
Import llcenelag coverage l low  22.11,
one quarter  ft what It wee to June
t1065 oftIctel tteereneO prie.t for
leport  have bee  completely abolished.
and the asutmu tariff to now 20 and
the averae" tariff IUK, respectively
one-fifth end one-haelt of sht they
were la June lo6. Proer. aa of mid-
1903 hao gone byond the Ooverm_t'e I
ortglanl *chedule, CATT ceeiteente,
and the targets In the IPL It. Ct
coverage to about 19 prcentage pointe
lower then the nPL II target, and the
maxIum tarlf io to percentage polit.
lower than the terget.
Coverage of q#o an lapert  of              Imploment th  agreed upon actLon program to reduce QRe
lndustreal product. Including              on importsl
agricultural Input. (e.g., pesticidet,
trrigatton equlpoent, arelcultural         (t) by November 1089, reduce QRo coverage from 23.7X
machinos), but oxcluding thoso on olI    to 23.24X of production of tradeables plus any
and derivatives, and agroladustrial        progress derlvod from the sectoral prograss; and
products, declined sigenificantly. and
presently to about 3! of tradoablo         (ii) furtbor reduction In QR. coverage will depend on
production.                                evolutlon of the aoc'oral prograss and messur"e to be
taken under a possible future Agricultural Soector-al
Loan.
to
SaLisfactory progress in lplomentation of plan of         Betore Second
eLlion.                                                    Trench. Releale



BlJECTIVES           ACTIONS ALREAOY TAKEN                        ACTtONS TO BE TAEN                                 TI
Coverage of export quotas em ouporte of   Carry out agroed upon study to elImiactO the voluntary
non-oli lndustrial producte (e.g.,        Eqs and to Introduce an suction system for the
petrochemicals, steel, metal products,    allocatleo  of lwoluntary Eq.
fertilizora). a1lo declined
significantly end presently to about
4.11 of trodeable productlon. Theso Eq.
"re affected by International trade
groeemnts(o.g. textiles and steel).
Complete  he study and agree o*  a plan tor Its           Before Second
implementation.                                           Trench, Release.       0
Further lmprovement In the anti-dumping systm *111 be
addroessed in a plan of action to be submitted,
Including:
(I) tralning program; and
(lt) information system.
Satisfactory progres in Itlmplmo_ting tho action          Batfore Second
program.                                                   Tranche Reslsae
Carry out agreod upon study to revise the unfair trade
practiceo rogulations.
Complete the study end agree on a plan for It.             Before Second
impleeatatlon.                                            Trench. Release.
.to
.I



9JEBETM              ACTianS  jAgtY tAk0E                         ACTIOMS TO BE TAKEN                                   tl        :
(b) flnc         Toek force for deis strative                  p     th b gred *Pe. action progra  Includin:
ERftt            sleptIfIeatlsO use aetbIl Sloed by
BSarrers and     Prealdmllul Agroemot. ta Morch 1U.    (1) Mitnltry of forei   Affairs:
Slwtimt.l        publishe  generol  rogram to slepilfy
Adniniotratlve   Admlisltretive Peocedoere.                 - deootratlof outhorliatleo  to constituto a
*ad Leo l                                                   corpoatlo. to the office. I* the citee of Toluca,
Proedures e      Also   program for ecooomle                Moaterroy,  enrmeosile, Oudelajmts and La Pea;
ffectis          dreoaetloeas see greetod by
Suenoese.        Preoldeatial Dee in March, 100.            (tl) SwCP:
- decentroliatlioa of dectilon-mailng capacity to
the differet cuaee off lOeOs
- uto.etie of customs service.,
- smplIficaWtio  of formats, apeoding up customs
protodors, 
- for ALME f*Irm  (highly exporting firms).
ollIsnati of e the reuired fiscal gearontees and
lraro se th time porled to ro-export merchandise In
the tporary Imports regimo, and reduction In the
time spent I preceduros by ALTEX fIres;
(111) SECOFI:
- edralnlatloo to simplify and speed-Up lleonsig of
lsport. and onports,
- sIIplIficatloo of procodures fort relgtratIon,
ALTEX fires, PITEX proegra  (teprary  daeloslon),
exports of tehnology, oengonrIng service. and
contructono tUn rebates end textile eNd steel
quotas,
- ooplif ictio. ot the reoitration to the Pedroe 
Nacloa de Is l4dusatris Famraeoutics (Notional
Registry for the Phormaceutcatl Industry).
Improvemet tn lnspection visits to chock the                                  W
r*quirceeoto for registration in the Prdren,



ffACEM          ACTIOS Am         TAM                        AUCTONS To 3! K TAM                                 T
- ponant  legitry of pout end serice.
eubjet to obligtory "nm,
- pereaet *thorlxation of "e  odel for metrology
inetrnente, eNd
- ..tlebih a comp._torlsed ejoe  to regoter prices.
Satiefactory progress Ir Implaomtlno the aetion plan.        eteore Second
Trench. Rele**s
IY. Promot
Ftetter Pricing
() Eliiaeo       CEPOFI for Wm lntrial soter,
Tax Incentlve    except for Mero NW smell oeterpriee,
have Ilready bow elIminated.
(b) Eliintote    Dereplatlon of cmercial balt. and
Industelil       ratlonallastlon of devslo_met brlnie
Credmi           ad  trnet fbd'  Iedt allocatlon
Sbaildles.       policies hes practically eliminate
Industrial credlt  bsidlo.
V. 9ereolkte antd        Entry to 1lIti-odal operator on            Carry out agroed upon coeprehenivo study on the
lIerove             eltce March, 199O.                         regulatory environmet for trvcking service, with the
CosntltloIn                                                    pu repose of produilng a comprebaoiv, coneistent and
Triacilln           A eecond fire has be" autberlsed to        entoreasble proram f .r the removl of i       ldments to
Services            operoat  as a multi-modal (comtiner)       comptition Wn  eff*icency.
tratspOrt auent.Comol ldtion of 
containers  now mmtailn place In on        Complote th. study and agree upon a plan of action for   Before Second           w
lend depots.                               Its lmplemntatlon.                                         Trannhe Relosse.



iiacTim               ACTIONS ALREY T?MR(                           ACTIS TO BE TAkEN                                   TtMING
egotiatiloe have totes pIace with U.S.
Oopsrtet of Ceores. to fOcl I tote
lnteraatieals truckies movwmnts.
Movemet, of truthsad trot ltoer  arose
the border Is nollowe  with moviesn
crew.
SCT requested cheapg to i.olittioe to
SWC to silow National carse" to be
carried la mterlatinasl *utostlara.
SCT requested peumlsles fro SNCP  to
oxpsad the National Railway T1ermnal at
Pantaco whore botle nec exeited.
VI. Eaterel Pinnate
Eneare adequate                                                 Substantial prooress has ben made In obtaining               Eftv
financine                                                       adequat financino for  oalcl¢o'o roqirmento for 19S9
consistent with                                                 end 190  1 the content of tho adjustment program and
adjustnont and                                                  orowth taroets cot forth In Mentico's Economic
growth targets,                                                 Strategy' Issued by SHCP.
and to mointain
reserves at                                                     Continued oubstantlel progress In obtaining adequate        Before Second
reasonable                                                      finaesine  for Noicoes roquireme_to for 180 and 199w        Trench. RNles..
levels.                                                         and tho siodlu  term la the content of the adjustment
program and growth targets set forth ln UMeuicoss
Econooic StrateoyO leoBed by SHCP.
As oentlonod in tho Industrial Soctor Polley Letter doted, May It 1009, the Government of Moxico states that for sech action concerning: I
(b), I1, and III (a) herolc above, the scope and tiOIng of the plan of action discussed above oay bo affectod according to the result  of             F4
lntornstlonal negotiations. The Goverment of  oUlt.1  Dlil intenlfly the process of negotiations and proposes to estabilsh a mechaniam for            t
consultation with the World Bank to evoluate the prooress of the negotiation. booed on makot access.



- 44 -
Ane II
Prolect: Imlementation: Action Progress
Direct Foreign Investment
In May 1989, new Reglamentos for the Laws on Direct Foreign
Investment were published which significantly liberalized provisions affecting
majority foreign ownership of industrial enterprises, simplified registration
requirements and eliminated requirements for approvals for investments not
exceeding specified sizel1. Under the ISPL, the Government agreed to
undertake a comprehensive DPI promotion campaign, to make available
periodically up-to-date information on ivestment opportunities, and to
establish a data bank on investment and co-investment opportunities. It also
agreed to undertake several studies, including a comparison of foreign
investment regulations and legislation in different countries, en analysis of
regional patterns of foreign investment, and the identification of new
opportunities for foreign investment.
Under the leadership of SECOFI, a number of promotional activities
have been initiated. A consultative group has been organized to coordinat
DPI promotion. A joint public-private sector Iuvestment Board has been
established and promotional literature in various languages have been
dietributed. Further measures to simplify DPI registration have been adopted,
reflecting in part the findings of the studies undertaken. In connection with
the studies, another significant finding related to the importance of security
of industrial property and patent rights.
!echnologm
Development of action programs In the area of technology was
dependent upon completion of several studies on the following topics: The
IutereRt of Enterprises in Technology and their possible "sociation with
Ulniversities and Research Centerst guman Resource Development for Technology
Modernization-at Righer Education Levels; Technological Competitiveness;
Protection of Industrial Propsrty in Mezico; and Fiscal and Financia Policies
for Technology Development.
The findings of these studies were Important Inputs in the complete
overhaul of the industrial property lw issued in June 1991 which brought
regulations and restrictions on the acquisition and licensing of patents,
trademarks, technical assistance and other intellectual property (e.g.
L/This annex addresses the statue of the actions agreed, as presented In the
Policy Matrix, shown in Annex I.
Li The favorable impact of these measures on the flow of foreign capital is
discussed in the text.



Annex II
software) into conformity with international practice. Of particular
importance for foreign investment was the security given to patent rights, as
well as the freedom given to firms to enter into technology transfer
contracts. A further step in promoting technological development was the
elaboration by SECOFI of the "Program to Improve Productivity, Quality and
Technology", the implementation of which is being supported by the National
Confederation of Manufacturing Industries (CONCAMIN).   The findings of the
studies on intellectual property and technology transfer also served as inputs
for the design of the Bank's Science and Technology Infrastructure Project
(Loan 3475-ME) approved in May 1992.
The requirements for registration of contracts referring to the
transfer of technological knowledge, management services and transaction of
computer programs were eliminated.
Labor
On the issue of labor mobility, the completion of a study and the
preparation of an action program to implement recommendations were specified
as conditions for second tranche release. However, it was not possible to
finish the study by the time that the release was being considered. In ito
place, the Government presented an action program in the labor area, dealing
vith aspects covered in the on-going study, which the Bank considered
satisfactory. Those aspects included a review of collective bargaining
procedures, training and a general review of wages and salaries.
The study was completed in mid-1990 and several of its findings
have been incorporated by the Labor Secretariat in various of its activities
particularly relating to Improving productivity. The study was also used as an
input for the Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement project which is under
preparation. Emphasis was put in the report on the lack of technical training
which has limited its moblity as firms move up the technological ladder. The
report indicated that existing labor legislation did not have a major impact
on mobility.
Deregulation of Sector Programs
Automotive Industries. It was originally intended to provide ISPL
support to a study on reduction of regulation of the automotive industries
which would serve as the basis for an action program in this area. However,
in the second half of 1989, the Government and the private sector firms
negotiated agreements on the pace of deregulation for the industry. There was
no longer a need for such a study as the action plans contemplated in the new
agreements exceeded considerably the targets set In the ISPL policy matriz.
To implement these agreements, the Government issued two decrees In
1990, one for cars and light to medium size trucks (the 'car' decree) and the
other for buses, heavy and tractor trailer trucks (the "truck" decree), which
substantially increased competition in the Industry through: (i) removing
regulatory restrictions that were impairing the efficient organization of
domestic production; (ii) greatly reducing entry barriers in all sectors of
the automotive industry; and (iii) Increasing foreign competition.



Annex I1
r 46-       
Petrchgegals. In August 1989, the Government issued a decree
substantially liberalizing the sector. In practical terms, regulations
relating to the production of more than 700 products were removed and permits
for their production would no longer be required. These actions exceeded the
goals spelled out in the action program for this sector.
Pharmaceugticals. As agreed, the sector program which expired in
December 1988 was not renewed. In late 1989, an agreement with the private
sector was reached designed to increase competition in the Industry. A decree
was issued in October 1989 establishing a schedule for remving the remaining
81 QR.. which would result in total liberalization by October 1993, with a
azt passu Introduction of tariffs to reman in force three years from the
agreement. The decree also established a schedule for the removal of domestic
content requiremente. These measures exeeded the conditions for second
tranche release.
The completion of a study of the industry ws also a condition of
second tranche release. While it was not possible to finish the study by the
time specified, preliminary findings did provide the basis for submission of
an action plan for the sector which was considered satisfactory by the Bank.
Among the measures which were subsequently taken were gradual decontrol of
Prices, transfer to the Ministry of Health of responsibility for regulatitg
norms and for their supervision, and the gradual liberalization of goverment
procuremnt. In this connection, the completed study wa particularly useful
in designing the timetable for price decontrol.
The fulfillment of the program to remove QRs has been temporarily
delayed and is being discussed in the context of the negotiations for MAPTA.
At present, there remin 23 products subject to QR, the anticipated
liberalization of seven items on October 31, 1991, as well as 16 items whose
liberalization had been scheduled for 1992 and 1993, having been postponed.
Similarly, the issuance of standards for products was Included in the NWTA
negotiations.
Microcomuters. ISPL was expected to support a study which would
provide the basis for a full deregulation program for the computer industry.
In late 1989, the Government reached agreemet with the private sector for am
action plan which would achieve full deregulation of the sector by the end of
1992. On review, the agreeamt which was found to satisfy the scope of action
anticipated during negotiations. The Bank (Febrary 1990) walved the second
tranche requirement for the sector study. The Goverment in April 1990
nounced its full deregulation.
Trade LiberalizatIon
The process of trade liberalization, which was initiated in 1985
and supported by the two TPLe of the Bank, received further support under the
ISPL. In December 1989, the Government removed QRs on the imports of a
variety of products, reducing the proportion of domestic production of
tradeables subject to these restrictions from 23.72 to 20.32, exceeding the
seond trench  release requirements. Additional products were subsequently
liberalized and, by mid-1991, the ratio stood at 17.9S.



'- 47                                Annex II
Reationalization of export quotas (EQs) was also an important
objective of ISPL and second tranche release conditionality vas attached to
completion of a study of the existing system to provide the basis for reform.
It was not possible to complete the study by the time second tranche release
but, based on preliminary findings, the authorities presented an action plan
detailing the scope of expected liberalization measures, including the
reduction in export taxes and the elimination of 31 EQ positions, thus
reducing the proportion of domestic production of tradeables covered by EOs
from 24.8Z in May 1988 to 17.92 in December 1989.
The study was expected also to analyze the system prevailing for
products subject to involuntary quotas, essontially quota3 imposed by
importing cr'untries, vith a view to establishing auction systems to allocate
those quotas among producers. This problem mainly affected steel and textile
exports to the US. No further work has been done on this aspect of the study
since the US steel quotas have expired and the textile quota issue is now
being discussed in the context of the NAFTA negotiations.
A third aspect of trade liberalization concerned regulations for
treating complaints over dumping or unfair trade practices. Second tranche
release requirements included the completion of a study of these procedurew
and elaboration of an action program. Although it wa not possible to
complete the study in time, the preliminary findings prolded the basis for
designing an action program which was satisfactory to meet the tranche release
conditions. Among the masoures outlined were changes in the Mexican
regulations to conform with the GATT Code and some adjustments to actual
practices of investigation. One significant element of the changes was to
assign the unit dealing with these complaints to the General Direction of
Foreign Trade-Policy, the office directly involved with supervising trade
liberalization, in order to ensure that any action in the anti-dumping area
would be consistent with the overall liberalization policy of the Goverrment.
Customs reforms were also begun in 1989 to decentralize decision-
making capacity among different customs offices, to automate customs services,
and to simplify formats and speed up procedures.
2erezulation and Administrative SiMlification
The plan of action for deregulation and simplification of
administrative procedures which the Government presented in its Letter of
Industrial Sector Policy was largely implemented by the time of second tranche
release. The actions concerneds (i) decentralizing authorization to
constitute a corporation; (1i) decentralizing decisions on import controls;
and (iii) speeding up the issuance of import and export licenses, Procedures
for registering for various programs affecting Imports and exports were also
simplified.
Considerable work had been done by both tha Bank and Mexican
economists to identify critical problems affecting entry of new firms and the
costs of doing business. In February 1989, the Program for Administrative
Simplification wa initiated within the Office of the Controller of the
Federal Government and in the following month a presidential decree



Annex II
established the Program for Economic Deregulation to be Implemented by SECOPI,
the Office for Coordination of the Program for Economic Deregulation.
Measures for deregulation have encompassed a broad rang, of
activities affecting the entire economy, including the trucking industry,
packaging requirements, establishment of textile and hennequen plants,
telecomunications,, and port stevedoring. In the case of administrative
simplification, a system has been implemented for periodic review of the
procedures and functioning of the main federal agencies, involving the
participation of private sector groups, e.g. CARACI1TRA.
Deregulation of the Trucking Industr_
In July 1989, the Government established new rules and regulations
governing trucking and the use of federal highways. Under the ISPL, support
vas given to complete an on-going study of the trucking industry to provide
the basis for preparing an action program for reform. The measures actually
adopted went well beyond this commitment, moving rapidly to a broad
liberalization of trucking activities.)'
The main reforms which have been introduced Includes (i) freedom of
routes for all registered truckers on all federal highways; (41) freedom for
all registered truckers to transport any product (except toxic substances and
explosives); (CII) elimination of restrictions to load or unload anywhere in
Mexico; (iv) elimination of the compulsory freight allocations by freight
center authoritie@; (v) legalization of informal truckers; (vi) permitting
private contract carriers to operate; (vii) restricting incumbents' power to
decide on issuing concessions and permits for new entrants; and (viii)
eliminating restrictions to obtaining concessions and permits. Changes were
also made to the regulations on multimodal transport to increase competition.
As one consequence of the new policy, SECOFI has reported that, in the last
three years, more than 60,000 new truck licenses have been issued. The
reforms however affect only federal rules -- some state regulations still
apply .
21 A detalled analysis of the previous system of regulation of the trucking
industry is provided in the document, Mexico: Industrial Policy and
Remulation, Report No. 8165-Ug, dated August 15, 1990.



mauw
EXCO  * - EM1C ISIcAnr
PAM 1 OF 3
Hid1900 Phuatiwn (site.)      W.8
1990 Per Cepito SW  In Los   2900
A. Uwas of  is4 Omtic Prodt                  S. Craft Rausa per a wum,
(f  aerant prie dt)                       cftn    (t price iwo)
...    -                                           .      ......... . .
arms D tic Pr t M.p.         1.0  10.0   00.0  10.0  1.0  10.0                  6.      6.5 O.1    3.
Mt lirmt Toxi              4.3    5.0    8.3    9.3    9.4    9.4             ..        ..
AtricJutu.                  13.9   11.1    8.2    8.5    8.9    8.9            3.1    3.8   .0.1    1.9
dtnry                       27.1   29.0   32.8   31.9   29.9   29.9           83    7.2    0.3    4.9
(of ,iAie rimocurirg)       19.7  22.1   22.1   24.4   22.8   22.9            8.3    6.7    0.1    S.S
seMio                       59.1   59.9   59.0   59.6   61.3   61.2            68    6.5    0.3    3A
1esexe 8                      -1.9  -1.9   -23    0.9  -0.5   -3.2               ..      ..
EDrs of W(fS                 7.7   6.9   10.7   15.7  16.2   14.5             6.2    8.9   t0.1    S.1
its of aS                    9.6   8.8   13.0   K.8   17    17.7              6.9   10.7  '4.6   2.2
Toelip £diS,"                10M.9  101.9  ¶9M.3   99.   100.5  103.2           6.9    7.0   -1.6    6.3
Totol CawumPtim             80.2  79.9  75.1   76.3   80.9   77.8             6.4    7.4   -0.1    6.2
Prlite cam.tim            73.8   71.6  65.1   45.8   69.5   46.9             6.     6.1   -0.3    6.6
@woi G. avnl               6.3   8.2   10.0   10.5   11.3   10.9             8.7    7.7    1.8    3.7
aft" Doinete lrwunt         20S   20.0   2.2   22A    19.6   25S              13.4    8.7   -5.7    6.8
Flxe !tmegfl             17.6   19.2   26.8   17.9  19.6   2.               9.5    8.3    5.2   11.8
-aws  in Swc               2.9   0.8    2.4    4.9    ..    ..                ..    ..    ..
Gross Downe S  rb             18.S   181   2.9  2Z.7   19.1   22.2              8.4    9.4   -3.9   4.2
Mit Faco iwm                -2.8  -4.1   -3.4   -3.7   -3.2  -22                ,.    ..      ..
met OaWwt Trserm             0.o   0.1    0.1    0.9    0.9    0.9             ..             ..
4me Istiami Swfr              1S.7   U.1   21.6   20.9   16.9    L. ..                   o   -4.6      .
In bWlltfm of Ws              119   190                                       190-73 1973480 13D91   196   1991
.0  muat1987   0i)    , .    .,,,    .,   ,,,,, ,,,, _               _      ,       ....    ..         -
arms   Dge  Proa           67    1190  179161 2?14  2107  219W                 6.     6.2    1.2    4.0    4.0
eCclty to 1qe               Is"4  14U0   514  4         470  476M2             6.7   12.3    1.3   12.      0.1
low at Trade #AdJ t          5ff   155  13        M4   4156   1t1                             .
Bris Cimmtic 1              W91  1173   19Se66 20369 21493 22                  6.9    6.8    0.     5.6    2.5
Gos  Ntitl Proett           21   1146  17i004 195ZGw  2164 214                11.?    5.8    15    4.5    5.1
ts         l Ir            5      11m20 159 1961W.   a    215U9               11.7    6.4    0.6    62    35
a -3- -            u 1 9      )-*            ---- ltfon bimaCi pA.) -
W -See Irdioss              IO.13* 1986   19    19    1990   19911D73 197340 1.91   190    1991
=     =..nee...e                   .en      *  * - a..                         .         *    .f
aw   Main (IFS 64)            2.2   4.1  212   57.0  353.5  399.3               4.    20      69.6   26.7   227
hWanuse PrIese (M A6          2.1   42.A  207.8  241.2  297.5  3S5.             4.0   22.3   6L7   23.3   20.5
Aplicit MP  flwtw             2LS   41.9  201.7  336.9  317.2  37.              S.9   21.2   66A    21.5   19.2
apicit Eitau   OdlI.          2.3   42.5  2M8  254    310.6  307                5.8   2.6   47.7   2L.    1A
.   wr nlicstm            1O-73 19730W 13191
ea  UtXnC  p...):
Pjaptatia                    3.4    24    2.0
Lfr Form                     34    44    3.2
GiMs  watt. t ica  p.c.      LI    3.   -.14
Privet Cawipt  pc.           2      31   -0.3
*art sElsicitym
lJpmU ("FS) / UP(p)          1.0    1.6   2.3
rgtl Stwir em ta:
Gross Istiaut S'ino         12.5   34.9
trims    tic   vi            17.6   32    1.2
cpwm   i awwr     s            ..    4.2   128
w  of Toutl                  1go 193   1          10    11



-50-
VWU a OF 3
YOLL  Indu                        VBII at Oz1Yf1 Priam Cal 111.  W)
I. IGuiutie Eqx13            "SO   1387   ¶3       139    13     191    3      13      13     13 m1
C.P.E.                G~~~~~~A .100.0  101.8   94.7   99.46  .   1063 865.  67M1.3   736 10103.7
lanloww"              335.5  100.0  109.0  17.   10.'2'  1 43.3  a0 3O   0,7  1 1 M    1 2MO'  136 W 55
ecstual                      46.   100.0  106.9  127.4  153.9  169.2  MU0.    2119- Z0.6  358.7 V7W.4
o~ta 6Eres FM                $L    100.0  106.7  106.5  116.   15.5  1512  5=6   20           2W7S   2477   263
* llerddtse laerw
omc!                        396.7  100.0  240.0  420.2  Sm.             261      TOG   19      349   5S9   697
tbw lrmtwm goo1s5US    100.0  136.2155.   179'.2'               1 OR2i    W   12 '50  1510  "1791*9'    2W4'
inptal om                   261.9  100.0  146.3  167.5  23.9            517    21    4W       476    dM      am3
2tt l Imort CIP             186.   100.0  146.4  173.4  216.1  au0.   138   1zz   136  23610  29199            M
*Nerdwidf s Term of Tsrsb    130   195    1e8   139   1900   199
wrdi.  qru Price Irdo       144.   100.0   951 1093.5  1110  11.
-rdi. 1qmrts Price Ind=      55    100.0  10594  110.5  112.8  117.3
fch. Tam of Trod            176.2  100.0   30.0   93.7   95.A   86.
t oft ifas (at cAw'wt prime):
Bata   of P.)uauf          1so   137    138   1389   1990   1991
urt of awd gm               MM 75   2750   29100  3258   3
4ordwdf to CPUB)           13511  20M0   WM70   aTe   377
im-ftac  Servfm             Sal   d0   8am        010111
MMs of Good & Os           25117  17100  800   31100  39542
fiagds  (Rs)            ¶83   no   1350  5610  2979
4n-actor savims             am    4W    6130   743   gm4
armc Slarnc               -.9    10600   4090   178s  -115
F~~~i* b ~~~-466   .7190  -570  -781   -7575
lntsrsstpor MS)     6068   am    oil   gm    778   79
orvuie Trust as               a    336    455   Ms7  367
dX*    VtudeMs)             190    59    34g   15       2100
, A/C Bat S.f.. Oft. Grawa  -10w    3300  -350  -3M1   -=
It offict Trssufre s         39       0      0    186      0
* A/C 3. Atw eOff. Sw~ -1075  30    -20   -3W           -
?-T.ru Cemplt hote        IWO1   3320   .457SW
'rect !nwwoe               218    Sa      an0  3  W     am
it LT Lws OM dU            AM5   377   -145    26%1   SIX    195
SWa LT In tl.' ciao )             -3W   *1O4    1    -Z           .
-tOder Jtems (et)         138  -54O  .30         2% -
C short Torm Ctapta        142  -3156  .3776   .36   4110        -.
plttnLFIaKNJ-I.               0      0      0       0      0      0
rem  and adiins              -4    91    W'   1550  -7564    *.
VWin Use kaaum           -M41    -57    41        6    MO,.
t Credit frm Ow 89"        .56   1100   -I       3      -360
ur 3Aearv  Omasm           -     .d0   693   *78   30
-uc Batum                 -2.2    7.4    2.3    0.    -0.
wravm?vpuw2                3.1    5.9    5.0    4.4    3.1    2.9
Tog Aami  Rsate           -5.5    2.8   -1.7   -1.9   -.3.
%W *w. Cotd (.11L. M5    250   1246    W9              30M
Ims I. Gold (1t. 25)   4175  1319    d3       640  1091
at1 S-be. CUM5)         5.93 570.16 ZV.IO 3461.7312.A0301A4
*Rat 1ff. X-ft gm  130  100.0   56.10  49.M   7.41  76.12
sitlaem of curmsl 25)  19676  148A6  17434A  5919371  214



-r51 -                                                 mc
,uuw    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ zmw - swiHIC rwzcgrm
PAr0E 3 Of 3
....O nein  ..e in. ..  anne. .0    ina*              *.e..  **nfb~~~.....n..               
S8wywt Receipts               23.1   21.    S.   2.2   2138    ..7.6  114.6   26.2   Z.6
O.rrsmt bpardluDW             239   39.3   34.7   29.7   27.         ..            .2  ~ao    II        19.2
CapitaL Receipts               3.8    5.3    3.4    3.7    4.2    ..74.6   33.2   384./   47.0
CaptaL Iapu-dIuaw              9.6    5.5    4.4    3.9    6.9    5.3             55.6   61.Z   17.7'  60.6   35.7
ow'suU Deficit                -635  .14.4   -9.2   -4.8   -2.3       .              .      .       .
Official Capital Or'wfts         .      *              .      .       ..                   .      .        .
Extemal Barredag (cwt)         2A      1.4    4.     0.5    0.6
Dometic Ba* FirwIin            4.7    6.5    2.5    23    2.7    5. .3   15.6   17.7   51.6
aet 0ig.w tsw CIM mittiwv)           Deb Wjutaiire & Dfsb*'SW ci.  mf II fa)
%daLle A Puihticy  aW. LT     SIM    4616   Im       498 S          M   3"    8439  8059   76059  763    78047
Official credftore            79     898    93      WS   424    ZW    418   1572   16110  1677  Z98   24549
MiL&tfetoat                 30t SM  3I    750    7M    2610   IMD   318   1=0  1=    1075   1430   15161
of Witch 1i               33     416    674    90   214    WZ    M          731.7  'AV7   70    11050  119M
af WichiMA                  a      0      0       0      0      0      0       a      0      0       0      0
SIlterat                    20    5SM      243    2D    1tM    1OM    129    W3.   sin    fM~  OM 
Priwate Credltms=                   37W     219   .47   105    -Z1   29043  6844  6448   5W27   514  53497
SuLpfus                     .52     36      4      32     57     60    217    342            319    m2    306
Firmmist Nwrkes            =8   369       EI    .M       WI1  -22   2917  6MM   61157  5SOM   53191  53193
?rivte eoa.gxuftmd            1VW    -W5  -2715   -730    CB        W    7300  11.118   593    3M7   6409   4100
etat LT                      di1   3779  -14V5   -261   5721   193   4121   9497  8SW2   80 30 0613  MU17
NP ergot                      -15     419    .93    309    99      17       0   5163   AM    509    6351   6471
at Thet-lena Capital          102  -3158  -277    -93    4110    ..16163   "W0   943   1M95   9645   9645
.inI Icel. IMF & *at ST       772    100  .-QS    -73   low              WM577  109460 10073   9516  968109
Mr*  d IDA Raics            "GO   1987   "a    1989   199    199
........ .                      a    nl .e 
WCr Of TortAl Laig-TeM CM                                                      am'
I la   a    of ToVaL        5.01 - 7A6   8.5    9.77  1346  1432
 IDA as Zef Total            0.05   0.00   0.0    0.OD   0.OD   0.0          Dotsamn  Eac I,tlfcamrbtls
 IflD*IA as % Of Total      5.01  '76   8.58   9.77  1348  142               *.*Ad oiami tli dsfinitlva a
to1-- sP of OIe su*   Tablu e-d
wre of LT Deobt Sorvios                                                       Stxr £ttidmw.. Mm 11M%tora
Mmi as 2 of Tout             2.73   947    Mr0  10.30  1647  16.80          sdwM  iralib dam tVuAg Om =t
*IDA an 2 of Total           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.OD   0.0    L.0          romwty ox4etod cmle-d   Vr (or
tD.oMA  2z  of Touta        2.73   9.67   9X7  10.30  1647  16.80           fiscal VWa in en cnof f lace yaw
inattries). Staff catIm~tca my be utd
3-fte-Ent  Ratfio                                                             If fillet Or PriMticry &CtmAle NVe ust
vat Volumbe. TMetW. of ostlostos aw
Lau-Tew  dab/'Eit't       186.2  3.7T  269.M  211.748 184.5        0.        prelIminary ffgiai ahAld he irdiostW
Ior C'~AvE*MU               0.00   17.3  14.96  13A7  14U9ff                 y
Uiott-Tem 0Ot/Eipa.        73.0   19.36  29.A4  27.2   M1
LT+IMP.ZT D05/Eorf        219.26 36537 313.7  212.9 221138         ..        owosltui=MW dt
p uprelliftury dst
LouTerm Debt=~P            21 .16  7043  49.64  3.12  33.91  29.92
1W Cat/Opu                  0.00   346   2.76   2.4    2.76   2.36
Shart-Twu Dabd'00           L 30   4.15   5.0    4.90   4.8   3.31
LT.INP57 COMP    *         29.46  77.Wo  573   4545  40.72  35.W9
be Service fEapeu
Pbhlic &  wummtead LT      3546  2L82  3.5S  21.11  1IL27
pri%ste Mu-gruie.w LT       6.35   8.19  11.32   6.66   331
Total Lov-Twn Debt Mevice 4230  37.01  42.77  3139?  '21.57
IMP                 Cher~m.v.0.   042   2.17   2.81   3.2    3.92
I1mt. wnty an ST D?         6.7)   1.17  ILS8   2.64   24
'toutl CLT.IIUST bit.)     4938  40.5  4816  3748   VA.2
IEC cisiMm1



Structure of Import Tariffs
1982-1991
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987              l988          1989     1990     1991
iJn-Jun   Jul-Doe
Vlumber of     8,tOO    8,l03  8,063  8,091  8,206  8,44S  8,472        11,932   11,838   11,817   11,812
Tariff Itw.                     ..
Average        27.0   23.3   23.3   25.4   22.6   10.0   9.7             10.4     13.1      13.1     13.1
Tariff
I:ieperuion    24.8   23.6   22.3  ik8.    14.1   6.8    6.9            7.1       4.4       4.5      4.5
Weighted       16.4   8.0    8.3    13.3   13.1   5.6    6.2            6.2       9.7       10.S     11.1
Tariff.
Weighted       21.1   12.7   11.9   10.1   13.2   6.9    7.4             7.7      6.9       7.0      6.6
Dispersion                                                    __
maber of       16      13      10      10     11      5       5
lates
sources SI ico
X^toe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



ANNEX V
- 53 -
Flow of Direct Investment
1980- 1991
(in millions of US dollars)
Total  | Approved | Registered | Stock
ml        |by CNJE |_at RNIEE   Market
1,622.6    1,055.9     566.7
1980__ 
1981    1,101.1      794.6      906.7
1982      626.5      271.9      354.6
1983      683.7      393.7      290.0        -
1984    1,442.2      796.6      645.6    _
1985    1,871.1     1337.6      533.4     _
1986    2,420.9    1,559.8      861.1        -
1987    3,877.2    3,260.7      616.5
1988    3,157.1    2,448.3      708.8        '
1989    2,913.7    1,231.5    1,268.2    414.0
1991    4,978.4    2,118.6    1,603.8   1,256.0
1991    9,897.0    4,871.7    2,143.5  2,881.8
NIE- Nationravesfme We-
RNEE- National Regist of Foreign nvestmen
Soue: SECOFI, Foreign Investmet Deparmen



U
l~~~~~~~~' .1'   ra    rigN                 rig   ri    rU    fa    VW         99   CA._                          )
re n   r mt -                              r--   et-
ri    VU 9    i    rit   ru          Vat   Ia    r       V w  _w       t     S
Cs    1      1   eW-V    "    Ws    Vs -          eV      a    Wu                       -                . t
Fs    Wg    F      V6I  fVP    F. _  V            ri t'        rs  .'4     .  ,     rs.
r- Ws       Ft    r  -   oi  Il tafw       f  s   6rn - -. -                  -               - -
I'    F       it-        ce    r     r w e  Ft-          Fe    Ole    rum    it     um . 
Vs    tot   Fog  151   ire   113  guB   is    ii   ri          s      co,-  ru    rip
r                  t     FL  f  S  _   _    WI     V ."  "  " a  to   t Dt a _
.~-                                 -      -      -     --       -          s-     --    - _
_P     _P     _     i    _o    to     _t    r_     _t  _  &     _s    _.     _t     _s     _
_--                             --                        -      --
.  9 ..  - -- -w=   -- - -r I'-_,_
s~rm  g Vt V      V      S    It     C      V      S       t    ft    C 
- -          -            -      --                 -     - 



Stroctat  o Katieaa fpwter
Selected Year, 1980 - 1e99
_~~~~~ _                                                                         ___[ t1  $ -'-'-
______________    1960  1902      1904      1906      190?      1988      1963      1990      1991
TO?AL 307                          13511.6   11219.1   14496U.0   1608l.0   20494.5   10450.0  22042.3   26638.3   21174.9
loetrois                         10441.3  16477.2   16601.3   6301.2    8629.0   6711.2   1816.0   10109.1   a15.   A               a t 
Ice- etrolem                      3070.3    4132.3    7594.1   9713.8   11864.1  13034.6  14966.3  16134 .6   19009.2   Ixport
of whte--                                                                                                                   1960      1991
IUWACTIIS                           9510.?   3306.0  s£05.?    na2.t  10538.1  12281.5  130t4.1   14841.0  16150.6              100.0    100.0
ood, *oeveragoe 6 Tobeece         7t1.1 ?     01.4     021.9    931.4   1130.4   1362.5    1260.1   1095.2    1215.6           21.6      *.3
-tetiles, Apparel & Loather        164.0    ISOJ.    215.3       332.9    566.2    619.4    622.6         632.2    763.9        5.2       4.6
Wood Producto                       S3.5      32.0      98.1 .   100.5     134.5    18I.8    191.5    161.5    190.0    _._               1.I
-papire printI4           c78.0               10.4      96.9     1W?.?     222.3    321.6       268.9     202.9     232.5       2.2  __ 1.4
Petroleum Derivative.              421.0    260.0   1244.2       639.6     632.0    611.9       423.7     092.9     642.7      12.0       9.8
I-B
P etrochemIal                      114.?     115.8     160.1      01 .4     120.0    209.8      160.4     290.?     256.9       9.3      IS   U'
Chemicals                          393.1     441.6     1S3.9     029.3   1093.1   1384.1   1537.0    1610.6    1914.8          11.0      11.0
Plaeto 5 tIbber                     18.0      26.!      64.8      10.3      112.4    156.2    118.8       124.3    173.1        0.3       1.0
Uon-Ifetaltlo Mierals              127.6     139.6     268.3     373.0    416.6    520.5    366.1         524.6    630.1        3.        3.-
omata Ierroas  Hotale               69.6     112.4     377.1     443.1    629.6   716.9    066.1          920.9    1000.0       1.9       6.0
Sata  woe-fteroue Metatl.         498.2      371.7    510.3      474.2     630.2    804.9   1033.1        96S.2     150.8      14.0       4.S
metal Prod., machine I 8qUtaL.    185.5    888.6    2216.6    3283.2    4619.5   525S.9   5182.1   1241.0    3739.3            22.0      52.2
Other tManufactures                 44         6.0      74.7      43.6      as.3       90.2      98.4    274.6      183.4       1.2       1.1
____                                 _-- *                                                        -
LafilCi' 0aceo de Monte
H ,



- 56 -                 Attachment 1
THE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF JAPAN
TELEPHONE: TOKYO 3287.1221               4.1. 0IITEMACHI 1CH4ME1L
TELEX   :2223728 VIlGIN J                (3III bI)A.K., TOKYO 100
FACSI1IILE TOKYO 3287.95U40      .              APA
CABLE   , EXPORTBANK TOKYO
December 15, 1992
Mr. Robert Kanchuger
Acting Division Chief
Mexico Country Operations Division
Department II
Latin American and the Caribbean Region
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Kanchuger:
Re: Comments on PCR of the Industrial Sector Policy Loan
Pursuant to your request made to Mr. Yamamoto, our Deputy
Representative in Washington, please find attached our comments on
the draft Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Industrial Sector
Policy Loan (Loan 3087-ME).   If you have any questions concerning
the comments, please contact Mr. Kiyoshi Nishimura, Economic Policy
Analysis Department. Mr. Nishimura's telephone number (Tokyo) is
3287-9535 and fax number is 3287-9582.
Last but not least thank you for giving us the opportunity to
comment on this well written report.
Sincerely,
/2 / 7'
Yothifumi Mtsuzaki
Director General
Economic Policy Analysis Department
The Export-Import Bank of Japan



Wm&                      - 57 -                 Attachment I
THE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF JAPAN
TEKL.PHOENt T4OKYO4 3287-1221          4-1. OHTEMACHI IlCHMIE.
TELEX   222:1328 YUGIN J                CINIIODA..KU. TOK(Y( l4)I
FW$IM1ILE iTOflY03:287.9540
C M3LE,  X EXPO>RTI'B K TO)KY0 
December 15, 1992
JEXIM's comments on the Project Completion Report (PCRI
of the Industrial Sector Policy Loan (ISPL)
In November 1989, the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) made
available to Mexico a loan amounting to US$300 million in
cofinancing with World Bank's ISPL. This cofinancing loan was a
part of JEXIM's financial support totaling US$1.9 billion on a
commitment basis for Mexico's debt and debt service reduction
(DDSR) operations. JEXIM's support also included cofinancing with
the World Bank's other two sector adjustment loans prepared in
parallel with ISPL in support of public enterprise and financial
sector reforms.
The objective of ISPL was to stimulate private sector
investment and growth. In order to achieve this objective, ISPL
supported a program of reforms to modernize the industrial sector
by removing market distortions and creating an appropriate
administrative and regulatory environment to enable enterprises to
be internationally competitive.   More concretely, the program
consisted of (i) the liberalization of foreign investment, (ii)
improvement of technology, (iii) curtailment of sector programs,
(iv) removal of entry barriers, (v) the reform of trucking sector,
(vi) trade liberalization, and (vii) the reform of labor market.
As PCR concludes, the implementation of ISPL was exemplary.
Some actions were taken in advance of the agreed schedule and
exceeded established targets. Despite difficulty to separate the
effects of the measures supported by the ISPL from the effects of
other policy changes implemented at the same time, it seems clear
that the program made positive contribution to the achievement of
its ambitious objectives. Nevertheless, the following three points
may be worth mentioning.
First, in order for other countries to benefit from Mexican
experiences, an attempt should be made to disaggregate, if
possible, costs and benefits of each measure under the program, or,
at least, to identify the measures that were crucial for the
success of the program.



- 58 -                 Attachment 1
Second, despite a rapid growth of manufacturing exports
achieved under the -program, the degree of diversification of
exports appears to be still less than that of imports.
Furthermore, the speed of growth of imports has far exceeded that
of exports, leading to the rapid deterioration of external
imbalance. This Mexican experience indicates the need of a further
study as to the appropriate speed of trade liberalization in view
of different speed in responses of exports and imports to new
climate after the liberalization.
Third, as macroeconomic stabilization has almost been
completed and many distortions in the economy have also been
removed, the Mexican economy has reached the stage where the
question of productivity should receive more attention. A recently
announced policy package of the Mexican government consisting of 12
points to promote the competitiveness of individual businesses and
the country is an encouraging sign that the Mexican Government is
also aware of this necessity. However, there are more to be done
by the Mexican government to improve the productivity of the
economy especially through upgrading inadequate infrastructure and
reducing high business costs including financial costs.



- 59 -                           Attachment 2
Office Memora ndum
To:        Mr. Kanchuger                                       December 17, 1992
From:      T. Re ichmanx
Subject: Project Completion Report of the
Lndustrial Sector Policy Lgan
Thank you for lettingi us see this paper.  We have no comments
to make.



